Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: What is Roku? Best Roku TVs How to Pair a Roku Remote The Roku Channel How to Use AirPlay on Roku Best Roku Devices Star Button on Roku Remote Home Audio / Video Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Roku Plus Series TV review: better than you may expect By Caleb Denison Close $800.00 High brightness Brilliant color Snappy operation Impressive sound Great remote Poor off-angle performance Contrast suffers in high-brightness scenes Some motion blur The first Roku TVs are here. That is, the first TVs built by Roku are now available for purchase. I’ve written about why I think Roku making TVs is important. Now it’s time to find out if its TVs are any good. In this review, we’ll be taking a look at the premium tier of Roku’s new TV lineup, the Roku Plus Series.
Video review Out of the box Series and size details Performance How does it stack up? The verdict I received a 65-inch Roku Plus Series model for review, but the Plus Series also features 55- and 75-inch options, and all are currently available exclusively at Best Buy. The prices for the TVs appear to already be in flux. Retail price for the Plus Series is set at $650, $800, and $1,200 for the 55-, 65-, and 75-inch models, respectively, but sales prices already have them at $500, $650, and $1,000. For this review, I take the sale prices into account, as I believe those sale prices will soon be the norm.
Best streaming devices for 2023: Apple TV, Roku, and more What is Google TV? Here’s everything you need to know The best Roku TVs of 2023: which should you buy? Video review Out of the box Unboxing this TV was pretty straightforward. The legs require three screws each and have strong TCL and Hisense TV vibes. The back of this TV is very interesting because, unlike many TV brands , rather than spread the electronics out over as many square inches as possible for the shallowest depth possible, Roku seems to bunch it up in a smaller, but slightly more protruded area. Aside from increasing the total mounting depth of this TV, that also pushes the input bay well toward the center of the TV. It’s hard to know if this will be problematic for anyone, but I’m imagining myself trying to connect an HDMI cable after the TV is already wall-mounted and am thinking that could be a little bit of a pain.
The TV comes with the Roku Voice Remote Pro , which is rechargeable via USB and has a switch that enables or disables hands-free voice commands for the built-in mic. It also has a headphone jack for private listening, though you can also use Roku’s app for that task. It also has two assignable buttons, labeled “1” and “2,” in addition to the hotkeys for Netflix, Disney+, HBO Max, and Apple TV+, which is presently the most sensible assembly of apps I’ve seen on a remote yet.
While it wasn’t exactly lightning-fast, the TV did take significantly less time to update and set up than even other very recent Roku TV setup experiences I’ve had. I was already logged into many of my apps — except Netflix, which is probably Netflix’s fault.
Also, the operation of this TV is probably the fastest Roku experience I’ve ever had. I still think the Roku OS could use a face-lift — that alone is a big reason why lots of folks prefer Google TV , and it doesn’t have to be that way — but at least the Roku experience is lightning-quick, from basic navigation to app loading. I love that.
The TV itself looks smart enough — three virtually borderless bezels, along with a wide metallic strip on the bottom. Pretty standard fare these days.
Series and size details While we reviewed the 65-inch 65R6A5R model, our review also applies to the 55-inch and 75-inch models in the Roku Plus Series.
Screen Size Model Number MSRP 55-inch 55R6A5R $649.99 65-inch 65R6A5R $799.99 75-inch 75R6A5R $999.99 Performance The TV doesn’t support 4K at 120Hz, but it does support HDR , HDR10+, and Dolby Vision.
 You can also seamlessly integrate any of Roku’s soundbars, speakers, or subwoofers, along with any of Roku’s smart home devices, of which there is a rapidly growing catalog.
I’m about to dive into some deeper measurement data next. If you’d rather skip some of this geekier stuff and get to the takeaway, please feel free to scroll to the next section.
Brightness Now we come to the ever-important discussion of brightness. I used the Movie mode for SDR and HDR, and I used a customized version of Dolby Vision to measure the TV’s peak brightness and color accuracy, as well as color gamut. I disabled most extraneous processing, but one setting that is absolutely going to be crucial to this discussion is the local dimming setting. You can choose Off, Low, Medium, and High — and I can tell you now that you should never have this setting turned off, and that the Low setting wasn’t ever useful to me. But if you get this TV, you have some decisions to make about whether to use Medium or High. I’ll explain more as we go forward.
Zeke Jones/Digital Trends You can also choose a rather broad TV brightness option, Auto, which adjusts based on the ambient room lighting and is a setting I never use, or Darker, Dark, Normal, Bright, and Brighter. This is a common Roku picture setting that helps folks who may never get into some of the more specific picture settings to get a picture that is suitably bright for their viewing environment. In order to get at the TV’s peak luminance, I chose Brighter for most of my measurements.
To measure, I used Calman Ultimate calibration software along with a SpectraCal C6 colorimeter profiled to an X-rite i1 Pro 2 spectrophotometer.
Here’s the data: In SDR, the TV put out 580 nits from a 10% white window. In HDR modes, the results were varied. In a peak luminance test that runs through various window sizes, the peak brightness topped out at 825 nits – now, this was with local dimming set to high. In a peak luminance stability test, in which I used a 10% window (which has been standard practice for a long time) it was stable at 700 nits. That threw me for a second, but when I went back to the first test, I noticed the TV was brightest when it was putting up a bigger, 25% window. So I ran the second test with a bigger window and, sure enough, it boosted into the low 800s.
Zeke Jones/Digital Trends That pointed to the fact that, due to the TV’s local dimming system and how it reacted to these test patterns, it was capable of higher brightness when more backlights were being used. That is what triggered me to adjust the local dimming setting down to medium. And when I did that, peak brightness increased across the board. Now, I was getting 930 nits peak from a 25% window and closer to 850 from a 10% window. Interesting. Let’s come back to that in a moment.
White balance Even with the warm color temperature option associated with the “movie” picture preset, the Roku Plus Series’ white was heavy on blue at the brightest setting, and in HDR, the TV tracked high on the Electro-Optical Transfer Function (EOTF) curve, so it was basically over-brightening everything by just a bit. This was true regardless of the local dimming settings changes with which I was toying around. Getting two-point white balance calibrated wasn’t too hard, but it was a bit of a bear doing a 12-point adjustment. Tis was mostly because you have to use the Roku app to make deeper settings adjustments, but also because adjusting 20% white on the app, for example, didn’t seem to affect 20% white on the TV and so on. It felt more like a guessing game than a scientific process. Still, most folks won’t calibrate this TV, so I’m reluctant to deduct points.
Color In short, the Roku Plus Series’ color performance wasn’t bad by any means, but color errors were well within the threshold of human perception. For example, a Delta E of 3 is just barely visible to a trained eye; the Roku Plus Series had an average color error of 5.55. Anecdotally, I could tell the reds were off, but I don’t think the average viewer would notice anything was amiss. Normally, I’d say these minor color errors are acceptable at this price point.
Zeke Jones/Digital Trends Except, that’s where the comparison piece comes in. And before I get to the comparison piece, let me just say now and echo later that, on balance, this TV looks pretty good. There’s nothing about it that has me worried someone will buy it and be upset about what they get. I think it offers solid, just above middle-of-the-road performance overall, with a couple of shining moments tossed in that will make you grin. But, again, we have to compare to see how it stacks up to other TVs you can buy.
How does it stack up? So, what can we compare this TV with? Well, as I mentioned before, not much in the way of 2023 TVs. We have to go back to 2022 TVs, and I’d say that would bring in the Hisense U7H and probably the TCL 5-Series.
 Both of those TVs sell for less than the Roku Plus Series at full price, and both are still available for purchase. The TCL 5-series doesn’t get as bright in HDR as the Roku Plus Series, nor is its color gamut as good, but it has better color accuracy. The Hisense U7H is something of a unicorn, though, and just outperforms the Roku Plus in all three of those metrics — and for less. So, given those measurements and those comparisons, I’d say the Roku Plus is looking pretty good for the price. But measurements don’t tell the whole story.
I’m not thrilled about the off-angle performance.
As I watched this TV, I just felt like it lacked depth and pop. I could see that the highlights were bright and punchy and colors had a lot of zest to them, but the contrast was missing. That’s because the black levels weren’t as deep as they needed to be in the picture areas. The letterbox bars on the top and bottom of the screen were nice and black, and there was almost zero blooming with normal content and minimal blooming when I turned on closed captions, but on the picture, it just didn’t have the contrast of either the U7H or TCL 5-Series. I switched the local dimming feature from high to medium, and while the average picture level and bright highlights got a bit more punchy, the contrast didn’t improve with the setting on high the way I had hoped it would.
And bear in mind, this was all evaluated as viewed directly in front of the TV. As soon as you view from off to the side a bit, or even if you’re too high or too low, the contrast and color saturation take a big, big hit. Most midrange LCD TVs do this, but the Roku Plus series seems to struggle a bit more. I’ll need to do a head-to-head comparison because perhaps my memory isn’t serving me well. I just know I’m not thrilled about the off-angle performance.
And then there’s motion. Sure, much of the content I’m watching is delivered at 60Hz from streaming services.
 Some of it is 24 frames per second, though. And while judder was never a big problem, motion blur is. Yes, there are some motion-smoothing options available, but I can’t stand that look. Without smoothing, I feel like the motion performance is not as good as on the TCL 5-Series or Hisense U7H. I’m going to spend some time playing some games at 60Hz and see how that goes, and I’ll update this review after I have formed some solid impressions.
Digital Trends Finally – upscaling. Well, if you’re mostly streaming, I suppose the TV won’t have to do a ton of upscaling. A lot of really popular content is in 4K as it is. But, where live streaming TV is concerned, a lot of that is in 720P, and if you’re watching classic TV, that’s going to be 480p at best, and more likely, even lower resolution.
So, I loaded up the Roku channel to an episode of Two Broke Girls.
 It looks good, as I’d expect –a bout the same as if I was watching cable. Some stutter there, I notice. What about Quantum Leap ? Certainly a trip down memory lane. This was filmed in 16:9, so it’s not zoomed in on, but the resolution is still pretty low, and there’s a fair bit of grain. Not a whole lot of cleanup processing happening here, though I will say that the TV is doing a pretty decent job getting rid of some of the banding I’d expect to see. Now, let’s go to The Rockford Files.
 This is in its native 4:3 format and, honestly, it looks way better than I expected. Maybe it’s because there’s less of the screen taken up by the grainy image, but for an older show, this looks solid.
I was tempted to move on to ChiPs , AirWolf , and A-Team , but that nostalgia trip will have to wait. I’d seen enough to know that the upscaling on this TV is going to be just fine for this TV’s target audience. I don’t recall either the TCL 5-Series or U7H being much better. In fact, this TV might even be a bit better than the U7H.
Other things I like about this TV? The screen uniformity is surprisingly good. There was minimal vignetting in the corners — a little bit of darkening on the left and right edges. Overall, though, it’s far better than I’ve seen on most TVs in this price bracket.
And then there’s the sound quality. Folks, I’m pretty impressed. I won’t say it is doing anything magical for dialogue clarity, but the overall fidelity is respectable. It sounds full and rich, there’s far more bass than I was expecting, and the stereo effects were truly impressive. I did not see that coming.
The verdict So, what’s my takeaway on the Roku Plus Series TV? It’s a quality television, with some glimmers of greatness. I think it is going to stand up well against similarly priced competing Samsung, LG, and maybe even Sony TVs in terms of performance for the price. It’s TCL and Hisense, Roku partners no less, that pose the biggest threat to this TV because those two brands have historically offered TVs that punch well above their price points and do so in a convincing manner that the Roku Plus here just doesn’t quite pull off.
I have to say that, for a first effort, I’m impressed. Roku could have gotten a lot wrong with this TV, but it drew on its experience blueprinting TVs for other brands and landed on really solid footing with its first upscale TV tier. How well it will end up standing up to its toughest challengers remains to be seen, but while that question is one that I think enthusiasts may be interested to see answered, most folks just looking for a really solid TV at a nice price will probably be happy to open their wallets for the Roku Plus.
Editors' Recommendations Sharp’s promised Roku OLED TV is now available and deeply discounted Amazon is giving you 6 months of MGM+ when you buy a new Fire TV Google TV vs. Roku TV: which is the better streaming OS? The Roku Channel is now available as a Google TV app What is Paramount Plus? Price, plans, and what you can watch Cord Cutting 101 Product Reviews Roku TV TV Reviews Audio / Video YouTube TV today announced that it's expanding its multiview feature — that is, the ability to watch up to four things at once — to more than just sports. You'll now be able to add in shows from the news, business, and weather categories, so you can binge on those things even more than you already are.
The expanded multiview options — good for up to give shows at once — are rolling out to all users over the summer, according to an email from Google.
Audio / Video YouTube TV — the most popular live-streaming service service in the U.S. with more than 5 million subscribers — this week gave an update on Reddit on some bug squashing and upcoming features, plus some welcome improvements. It's an interesting bit of transparency in an age in which app changelogs are all but useless.
Probably the most interesting is that YouTube TV is "testing transcoding changes, including a bit rate increase for live 1080p content." Resolution — that's the 1080p number — is just one part of what makes up the quality of the picture on your screen. Bit rate is another. Basically it refers to the amount of data being pushed to make up that resolution — like the difference between a 1,080-piece puzzle with a picture made up of five colors, or one made up of 500 colors. Think of it like that. The higher the bit rate, the better the picture. And as we've discussed before, we'll take a 1080p stream with a higher bit rate over a bad 4K stream any day of the week, particularly when it comes to sports (which is exactly what we've seen with Apple's excellent MLS streams).
Audio / Video Roku today announced that its first slate of Roku Select and Roku Plus Series televisions — the first sets to actually be made by Roku — are now available exclusively at Best Buy. The first 11 models are meant to be affordable options not unlike the Roku TVs made by the company's manufacturing partners. (Those partners, so far as we know, will still make their own Roku TVs.) The Plus Series is the more advanced of the two options, with QLED screens at 55, 65, and 75 inches. Those prices hit $649, $749, and $1,199, respectively.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
