Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Audio / Video News Does QD-OLED have a burn-in problem? By Simon Cohen Close For years, as the largest maker of OLED TV s, LG has had a great story to tell about OLED’s many advantages. Things like black levels, contrast, and overall picture quality.
On the flip side, rival Samsung has battled against it for just as many years, spending millions of dollars highlighting one of the perceived drawbacks of OLED TV technology: permanent image retention (otherwise known as burn-in ). So it’s not surprising, now that Samsung has finally embraced OLED tech , that LG might want to return the favor.
And that’s exactly what happened on February 28. During an invite-only online media event organized by LG and attended by Digital Trends’ in-house TV expert, Caleb Dension, the company was focused on a single message: Samsung’s OLED TVs have a burn-in problem.
QLED vs. OLED TVs: which is better and what’s the difference? Sony’s 2023 A95L QD-OLED TV up for preorder in August starting at $2,800 This Samsung S90C OLED TV news is literally huge To be clear, LG Display (the LG division that actually manufactures OLED panels) was the one delivering the message. But it wasn’t basing the accusation on its own research. Instead, it used a set of long-term test results from rtings.com , a review site known for its in-depth, measurements-based product evaluations.
The test in question was performed on Samsung’s first QD-OLED TV , the 65-inch 2022 S95B , a TV that uses quantum dots combined with blue OLED pixels to achieve its full-spectrum RGB color. Rtings.com found that if left the same image displayed on the S95B for days at a time, with brightness set to maximum, permanent image retention occurred. The same test also apparently was performed on Sony’s 2022 A95K — the only other model that uses Samsung’s first-gen QD-OLED panel — with similar, yet slightly less-pronounced results.
LG Display was also quick to point out that LG’s 2022 G2 and C2 evo OLED models, which were also subjected to the same punishment, appeared to come away unscathed, or at least with no perceptible damage in the photos that were shown to attendees.
Samsung Display LG Display explained that the reason its panels fared better is thanks to its use of white subpixels. The deeper meaning of this explanation was lost on no one. Samsung has made LG’s white subpixel a prime target in its promotion of QD-OLED panels, claiming that the white subpixel reduces color accuracy by washing out the adjacent subpixels.
For its part, LG is now striking back by saying that without the brightness boost afforded by those white subpixels, Samsung is pushing its own OLED pixels too hard and that burn-in is the consequence of doing so.
Is LG Display right? Yes. But it might not matter.
The problem with image retention tests like the ones performed by Rtings.com is that they necessarily represent a worst-case scenario. Leaving the same news channel on an OLED TV for days at a time with its brightness maxed out feels like an edge case at best. In that way, they’re a little reminiscent of phone bend tests.
 Don’t leave the same image on an OLED TV for days at a time. Also, don’t sit on your phone.
Not to say that no one uses TVs this way (gyms, airports, and some bars are all places that might do just that) — but if that’s your intent, you should be staying away from any OLED TV — not just Samsung’s.
An example of screen burn-in on an OLED TV. Note that the visible zebra pattern, known as moire, is caused by taking a photo of a TV screen and is not part of the burn-in.
Ian O'Shaughnessy / Digital Trends The truth — whether LG wants to admit it or not — is that all OLED TVs can suffer the same fate as the S95B and A95K if you push them long enough and hard enough. Burn-in happens when some OLED pixels age at a faster rate than their neighboring pixels, which can happen when a logo or other graphic stays on-screen for a long time while the rest of the screen continues to show an ever-changing set of colors and brightness. LG’s use of a white subpixel doesn’t change that fact.
What’s more likely, in our opinion, is that LG (which has far more experience producing and controlling TV-size OLED displays than Samsung) has simply evolved its OLED TV software and hardware to mitigate the worst effects of burn-in when under extreme use. It hasn’t always been this way. We’ve received example images from readers who have older LG OLED TVs that have experienced burn-in.
Our takeaway from LG’s “I told you so” is that owners of Samsung and Sony’s first-gen QD-OLED TVs should exercise the same caution we have always recommended when using OLED TVs: avoid prolonged, high brightness display of any consistent image elements. Our other takeaway: just as LG has improved its ability to fight OLED burn-in over time, so too will Samsung, and we have every expectation that its next-gen QD-OLED panels will be less susceptible to burn-in than the ones it was making a year ago.
Editors' Recommendations Sony’s A75L is its most affordable 4K OLED TV so far LG’s giant, wireless OLED TV gets a giant price TV model numbers are confusing enough, and Samsung’s making it worse What is PHOLED? Your eyes (and your utility bill) are going to love it After years of bashing OLED, Samsung now set to buy panels from LG LG Samsung Sony Tech News TV Audio / Video If you're in the market for a new TV and you've been patiently waiting to see how much Sony is asking for its 2023 models (and when you can buy them), today's the day you find out. Unless of course, you've been waiting to see what Sony wants for its latest flagship, the A95L 4K QD-OLED. In that case, we're the bearers of bad news: That model, in all three of its planned sizes (55-, 65-, and 77-inches,) is still MIA, and Sony hasn't indicated when that will change.
Sony Bravia A95L 4K QD-OLED TV Sony Audio / Video Ever since Samsung formally announced the $4,500 price tag of its highly anticipated 77-inch S95C 4K QD-OLED TV, we've been patiently waiting to hear how much the company's other 2023 OLED models will cost. Now we know that S90C will be its most affordable 2023 QD-OLED model at $1,900 for the 55-inch screen size. You can order them starting March 20 at most major Samsung retailers, except the 65-inch S90C, which is confirmed, but has yet to be released.
Samsung S95C (left) and S90C 2023 QD-OLED TVs. Samsung Audio / Video After a rather conspicuous no-show at CES 2023, Sony TVs are finally here. Was it worth the wait? Absolutely. There are a few changes and a few surprises, so let’s get into it.
The OLEDs Sony A95L Caleb Denison/Digital Trends Sony Bravia XR A95L QD-OLED TV I recently flew to New York to get my eyes on three of Sony’s new models in person, and I’ll dive deeper into those further down. But first I want to give an overview of the whole lineup. Starting at the very top, we have the A95L QD-OLED TV. This replaces the A95K from 2022 — and yes, it uses Samsung Display’s newer, more efficient QD-OLED panel with higher brightness capability. I could not measure the TV, and Sony never talks metrics — like, ever — but I do have some brightness comments coming later in this article.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
