Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Audio / Video Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Samsung S95C OLED hands-on review: it’s time to get excited By Caleb Denison Close What could be worth traveling 3,000 miles in a cramped airplane to New Jersey? The chance to go hands-on with not one, but three of Samsung’s most hotly anticipated TVs for 2023.
Brightness: reality vs. perception More first impressions Don’t rush to judgment I got up close and personal with the 65-inch QN95C Neo QLED, the 75-inch QN900C 8K Neo QLED, and the 77-inch S95C QD-OLED. I had Samsung representatives on hand to address questions as I had them, and I got the opportunity to make some comparisons among the TVs that I don’t often get a chance to do so soon after the TVs have been announced.
When I first arrived, I wondered if Samsung’s surprisingly strong QN95C 4K Neo QLED might actually steal some of the highly anticipated 77-inch S95C QD-OLED’s thunder. You see, I started by checking out the 8K QN900C , then progressed to the 4K QN95C — both are QLED TVs. The latter was so impressive, I had to wonder if the premium that came along with the new QD-OLED tech was going to be justified. But then I turned on the 77-inch S95C, and all wonder was washed away.
Best Samsung TV deals: Save on QLED and OLED TVs Best 65-inch TV deals: Get a 65-inch 4K TV for under $300 The best OLED TVs for 2023: from LG, Sony, and Samsung The Samsung S95C is one of the most gorgeous TVs I’ve laid eyes on, and it is easily in the running to be the best TV of 2023.
Even with the impressive upscaling on display with the 8K QN900C and the utterly astonishing brightness and black levels of the QN95C, the S95C QD-OLED still won my heart that day. And a big part of that was because I was so happy to see that QD-OLED performance in a 77-inch model — that really did a lot for me. I know a lot of people have been curious about whether the 77-inch size would make all that much of a difference – and it really does.
Brightness: reality vs. perception Let’s back up and do a quick reminder for folks who may not have tuned in for this year’s CES.
We learned that the second generation of Samsung’s QD-OLED technology is more efficient and has higher peak brightness – both in terms of white brightness, and pure red, green, and blue primary color brightness.
That means that the display panel itself could potentially hit up to 2,000 nits of brightness — that’s a very exciting number. But that’s what the panel can do. As we learned from last year , that doesn’t mean that Samsung Electronics — the arm of Samsung that takes the panel and makes it into a TV — is necessarily going to unlock all of that brightness potential.
So there’s been some concern that maybe Samsung would cap the peak brightness a bit. Samsung Display says the panel can peak at 2100 nits, but Samsung might want to rein the TV in a bit, either to increase its operating life span by not driving the blue OLED pixels at full blast or because Samsung feels being more selective about when the TV reaches peak brightness leads to a better user experience.
After measuring 1,600 nits with various test patterns, I think it is clear the TV’s potential brightness has been limited to some degree. During real-world viewing, it’s possible that Samsung’s processor could apply higher brightness sparingly, like a quick glint of reflected sunlight. I think we should hold out final judgment until we can test this TV with real content and see what the TV does with peak highlights for short bursts on-screen. But it does appear that Samsung isn’t just shooting for the moon when it comes to brightness. And that might be for the best.
The contrast ratio is just off the charts.
Fixating on peak white brightness gets in the way of understanding how this TV’s perceived brightness is going to play out. Because the color brightness is just unprecedented on OLED , and that includes last year’s QD-OLEDs.
After this trip, I no longer worry about QD-OLED’s viability in bright rooms. Can it get as bright as the QN95C Neo QLED? No, it can’t. But when you consider you’re talking about pure blacks on the S95C, the contrast ratio is just off the charts. And keep in mind that the measurements I took were in the TV’s filmmaker mode, with color temperature set to the warmer side. With a cooler color temperature (akin to the daylight light bulbs you might use in your home, with more of the blue light wavelengths involved), the perceived brightness of the S95C would be even higher.
At any rate, I watched the S95C in a fully lit room with 18 fluorescent tubes glaring down and I was plenty dazzled by the perceived brightness of this television.
More first impressions Now, on the not-as-glowing side, the TV’s out-of-box white point measurements weren’t great. Red and blue measured very hot in the brightest whites, and needed some taming down to get the white point accurate — strange, since the efficiency of the green quantum is meant to be quite good. Perhaps there was some overcompensating at play? Setting that aside, the S95C’s out-of-box color accuracy was superb, and color volume was the best I measured all day: 74% of BT.2020 and 100% of Rec. 709. In TV geek speak, that’s spectacular.
Just watching TV for about 15 minutes was a treat, too. No red flags in terms of motion resolution, upscaling, or shadow detail.
Douglas Murray/Digital Trends Again, I’ll want to spend more time with the TV, but all signs point to this being in contention with one, maybe two other TVs for the best TV of 2023.
While I think it is fun to make some educated guesses about how these TVs are going to do this year, I also think it is important to remember that firmware updates can and will happen. I won’t be comfortable definitively ranking TVs and pitting them against each other until at least one month in, and six weeks is probably a better waiting period. As Samsung deploys firmware updates to its TVs, their performance capabilities will change, for better or worse.
Don’t rush to judgment Enjoy the excitement. Samsung earned it. But do remember that what you hear about these TVs through most of March are early impressions, subject to change. This year, perhaps more than any other in the past, it’s going to be prudent to see how things shake out after the TVs have been in the wild and any firmware updates that get deployed have been ironed out. If we learned nothing else from 2022 TVs, it’s that waiting a few weeks to indulge our inner early adopter is a smart move.
With that said, I think Samsung has some serious momentum going into 2023. Now that I’ve gotten to sit with these TVs for a while, get some early measurements, and just enjoy watching them, there’s no doubt in my mind the QN95C and the S95C are going to be huge contenders for best TV awards this year.
Editors' Recommendations Best 70-inch TV deals: Get a big screen for sports for $450 Best OLED TV deals: Save on LG C3, Samsung S90C, and more Best 75-inch TV deals: Get a large screen for under $500 Samsung scales its Terrace outdoor TV to 85 inches with mini-LEDs Walmart TV deals: 55-inch 4K TV for under $250 and more Samsung Audio / Video If you can get (read: afford) a 77-inch OLED television, do it. But Samsung now wants you to do one better with an 83-inch version of its S90C OLED television. And the price tag for that much 4K goodness? A rather not-unreasonable $5,400.
The new addition is available today and joins the 55-, 65-, and 77-inch models already in the lineup.
Audio / Video In May, TCL stunned us with the price of its new Q Class QM8 98-inch TV. At a mere $10,000, it was far less than the cheapest comparable model from Samsung. Today, Samsung is answering that challenge with an impressively low-priced 98-inch model of its own: the , which will be available starting in July for $8,000.
Audio / Video If you're in the market for a new TV and you've been patiently waiting to see how much Sony is asking for its 2023 models (and when you can buy them), today's the day you find out. Unless of course, you've been waiting to see what Sony wants for its latest flagship, the A95L 4K QD-OLED. In that case, we're the bearers of bad news: That model, in all three of its planned sizes (55-, 65-, and 77-inches,) is still MIA, and Sony hasn't indicated when that will change.
Sony Bravia A95L 4K QD-OLED TV Sony Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
