Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Audio / Video News Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Sony’s 2023 A95L QD-OLED TV up for preorder in August starting at $2,800 By Simon Cohen Close Sony In May, Sony announced the details of its 2023 TV lineup , with one very big exception — its flagship A95L Bravia XR TV based on QD-OLED display tech.
 Today, we have those details too. The A95L starts at $2,800 for the 55-inch model, $3,500 for the 65-inch model, and $5,000 for the largest 77-inch screen size. All three sizes will be available for preorder starting August 21, 2023.
 Sony hasn’t indicated when preorders will begin shipping to customers.
Sony’s prices, as expected, are higher than those of the Samsung S95C and S90C, the only other TVs that are currently based on Samsung Display’s QD-OLED panel technology. The 55-inch S95C, for example, is regularly priced at $2,500 — a $300 savings over the A95L — however, Samsung is currently selling all of its S95C models at a discount. With a sale price of $2,300 for the 55-inch S95C, the gap grows to $500.
Digital Trends hasn’t received an A95L Bravia XR for testing yet, but we expect that it will perform extremely well. The 2022 Sony A95K earned a perfect 10/10 score (as did the 2022 Samsung S95B ). The Samsung S95C was no less impressive in terms of its display and picture quality, but our reviewer nonetheless deducted a mark for the TV’s less-than-stellar sound and its lack of Dolby Vision.
Sony’s A75L is its most affordable 4K OLED TV so far Samsung confirms its 2023 QD-OLED TVs start at just $1,900, are available now LG releases 2023 OLED TV prices: evo G3 starts at $2,500, preorders start March 6 Sony has a reputation for excellent TV sound and its line of OLED TVs has always supported Dolby Vision , so these aren’t likely to be issues when we finally get hands-on with the A95L.
First shown off at CES 2023, the Sony A95L Bravia XR promises color brightness that’s up to 200% better than what you’ll get from a conventional OLED display, according to Sony.
The TV is powered by the Google TV smart TV operating system and includes voice commands via Google Assistant.
 You can use the Multi-View feature to split your screen and watch content from two different sources at the same time.
Sony has made the A95L a better companion for PlayStation 5 with Auto HDR Tone Mapping and Auto Genre Picture Mode for optimized picture quality while gaming and streaming. A new Game Menu, lets you manage gaming picture settings and assist features in a single interface.
Sony’s Acoustic Surface Audio+ uses actuators behind the TV, which vibrate to produce audio from the entire screen, which Sony says improves the perception of dialogue. There’s also an integrated subwoofer.
You can pair the TV with select Sony soundbars for Acoustic Center Sync, which synchronizes the center channel of both devices for even further enhances dialog.
Each A95L also comes equipped with a Sony Bravia Cam. When connected, this webcam enables Ambient Optimization Pro which automatically optimizes the picture and sound to where you’re sitting in the room. Video chats are also possible and Sony plans additional uses for the Bravia Cam in the future.
Editors' Recommendations Sony Bravia X95L mini-LED vs. TCL QM8 QLED: The best LCD TV and the one you should buy Sony releases its 2023 TV prices with one very big exception I saw Sony’s 2023 TVs, and I think this model might be the best TV of the year Samsung accidentally reveals price of its 77-inch QD-OLED TV TCL says its QD-OLED TV teaser from CES 2023 was an error Sony Tech News Audio / Video Samsung was the first company to show off a 4K TV based on QD-OLED technology at CES 2022, and now, at CES 2023 it has unveiled two new QD-OLED models -- the S95C Samsung OLED and S90C Samsung OLED -- and each will be available as 77-inch models. Both will also be offered in 55- and 65-inch sizes. The news came one day after Samsung Display confirmed it would show its next-gen "QD-OLED 2023" panel at the show in a 77-inch size.
When QD-OLED-based TVs debuted in 2022, Samsung and Sony revealed the first two 4K TVs models within hours of each other: the Samsung S95B and the Sony A95K. Both TVs proved to be absolutely stunning in terms of picture quality, leaving our reviewer no choice but to award them a rare 10/10 rating. But the TVs themselves weren't especially large; only 55- and 65-inch sizes were introduced.
Audio / Video Samsung Display has confirmed it will be showing a newly developed 77-inch variant of its QD-OLED panel technology at CES 2023. Whether Samsung Electronics will follow suit with an announcement about a 77-inch QD-OLED TV remains to be seen for now, but I expect to know more within the early days of the show. The new QD-OLED panel has been dubbed "QD-OLED 2023" and the company claims it can exceed 2,000 nits of brightness.
Samsung Display says the impressive new levels of brightness have been achieved through a combination of new panel design -- new "OLED HyperEfficient EL" material which improves the color brightness of each RGB -- and new optimization software dubbed IntelliSense AI.
Audio / Video Sony has finally announced the pricing on its 2022 lineup of Bravia TVs, including the A95K, which uses QD-OLED technology for its display. That TV starts at $3,000 for the 55-inch model, while the larger, 65-inch version has been priced at $4,000 -- exactly where we expected these models to land based on the Sony Rewards points that Sony had listed for each model on its website. Here are all the pricing and availability details for Sony's full range of 2022 Bravia 4K and 8K TVs: Bravia Master XR Series Z9K 8K Mini LED TV As Sony's 8K flagship, the Z9K has all of the bells and whistles. It's powered by Google TV, and supports HDMI 2.1, including eARC, variable refresh rate, auto low-latency mode, and 4K @ 120Hz. It comes with Sony's new Bravia Cam for video chats, gesture recognition, and smart features like auto-dimming the TV when no one is in the room.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
