Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Audio / Video Sony claims mini-LED superiority with 2022 8K and 4K TVs By Simon Cohen Close For Sony’s TV ambitions, 2022 is looking like a banner year. Not only has it become the first company to bring a QD-OLED TV to market (the Sony A95K), but it is also branching out into mini-LED backlighting for its non-OLED flagship models, the 8K resolution Z9K, and the X95K, a 4K model. And naturally, Sony believes its version of mini-LED is better than the competition, thanks to a new version of its XR Backlight Master Drive and improvements to its Cognitive Processor XR technology.
Better mini-LED? Master Series Z9K 8K Mini-LED Bravia XR X95K 4K Mini-LED Bravia XR Better mini-LED? Sony Why is Sony so confident that its min-LED TVs are better than TCL’s mini-LED models , Samsung’s Neo QLED TV , and LG’s mini-LED QNED models? Apparently, none of these competitors are applying sufficient algorithmic control over their backlights, according to Sony, which results in less-than-ideal picture quality.
As a quick reminder, mini-LEDs improve on conventional full-array local dimming (FALD) backlights by replacing hundreds of larger LEDs with thousands of much smaller LEDs, which should give mini-LED TVs great brightness but much better black levels and contrast control thanks to more control zones.
Vizio’s new Quantum 4K QLED TVs hit 75 inches for $699 Hisense just debuted the world’s largest mini-LED TV at 100 inches Hisense kicks off its U8K mini-LED TV availability with deep discounts Sony claims that its XR Backlight Master Drive overcomes two problems associated with mini-LED: A tendency to see the shape of the mini-LED control zones due to their greater brightness, and a darker-than-necessary image when so-called “simple” algorithms reduce brightness as a way to compensate for the added blooming in mixed brightness scenes.
Basically, Sony thinks that the combined algorithms of its XR Backlight Master Drive and Cognitive Processor XR do a better job of exerting fine-tuned control over the mini-LEDs in its Z9K and X95K TVs, letting these models deliver on the advantages of mini-LEDs in a way that other companies haven’t been able to do. Are these claims hype or has Sony really cracked the code on mini-LED? We won’t know until we get one of these TVs in for a test drive, but Sony’s image processing is world-class and there are those who still think that the company’s 2016 Z-Series (which used the original Backlight Master Drive) has the best picture quality the company has ever achieved.
Master Series Z9K 8K Mini-LED Bravia XR Sony / Sony Sony’s 8K flagship gets the mini-LED treatment for 2022, along with tons of other features and technologies. It will be available in 75- and 85-inch screen sizes, and like all of Sony’s 2022 Bravia line, the smart TV interface will be powered by Google TV.
At the core of the Z9K is Sony’s Cognitive Processor XR, which has been updated with depth control, which identifies foreground objects and makes them sharper, while slightly de-emphasizing the background. It also does a better job with color by tweaking both luminance and saturation, which the previous version of the processor couldn’t do.
Onboard sound has also been improved with the latest version of Sony’s Acoustic Multi-audio, which integrates four frame-mounted tweeters, two midrange drivers, and two front-firing subwoofers for a 2.2 channel sound experience with a total of 85 watts of power. You’ll probably end up using a soundbar or home theater system with a big TV like this, but Sony makes a compelling case that you don’t need to do that to get decent sound.
Sony Along with the A95K, the Z9K gets Sony’s new Bravia Cam, a camera module that mounts magnetically to the top of the TV and will eventually enable a host of features like gesture control, auto-dimming when people leave the room, and both sound and picture optimizations based on where people are sitting — something that Sony calls Ambient Optimization Pro. At launch, however, only video calling via Google TV apps is supported.
Using the Z9K’s built-in light sensor, Sony is introducing two new ambient light-based calibration modes: Netflix Adaptive Calibrated Mode and Bravia Core Adaptive Calibrated Mode, both of which are intended to preserve the content creator’s intent regardless of the lighting conditions in your room, when using these streaming services. It sounds very similar to Dolby Vision IQ , which Sony has yet to offer on any of its TVs.
Sony is now all-in on HDMI 2.1.
 The Z9K has four HDMI ports: 18Gbps HDMI 2.0 port 48Gbps HDMI 2.1 port with auto low-latency mode (ALLM), variable refresh rate (VRR), and 4K at 120Hz A second 48Gbps HDMI 2.1 port that supports the same features as above, plus HDMI eARC 40Gbps HDMI 2.1 port with 8K at 60Hz and 4K at 120Hz The speedy HDMI 2.1 ports with VRR, ALLM, and 4K at 120Hz will be welcome additions for Xbox and PC gamers, but Sony has also given the Z9K some PlayStation 5-specific features: Auto HDR tone mapping, which lets the PS5 determine the TV’s capabilities for an optimized HDR experience, and auto genre picture mode which lets the TV adjust picture settings depending on whether you’re gaming or streaming media on your PS5.
The Z9K retains the hands-free voice commands from last year’s model, but Sony has created a new premium remote for 2022, with a smaller and simplified design, easy-clean buttons, and a backlight for better visibility in dark rooms. There’s also a remote finder function that can be triggered by voice: “OK Google, find my remote.” Pricing and availability of the Z9K will be released by Sony in spring 2022.
X95K 4K Mini-LED Bravia XR Sony Available later in 2022 in 65-, 75-, and 85-inch screen sizes, the X95K is Sony’s top-tier LED 4K TV, with the same mini-LED system as the Z9K, using both the new Cognitive Processor XR and XR Backlight Master Drive.
The Google TV-powered smart TV will offer all of the Bravia Cam advantages of the Z9K and A95K, but you’ll need to spring for the Bravia Cam — it’s an optional add-on for the X95K. Sony hasn’t said how much the option will cost or when it will be available, but it will work with Sony’s other 2022 TVs as well, including the X90K, A90K, and A80K. If you only want to take advantage of video calling, you have even more choices as these TVs will work with the Logitech Brio, Logitech C920/C902S , and Sony’s own RX0 II and ZV-1 cameras.
Onboard sound has been upgraded from the X95J with 60 watts of power spread across two tweeters, two midrange drivers, and two subwoofers, the latest version of Sony’s Acoustic Multi-audio, which integrates four frame-mounted tweeters, two midrange drivers, and two front-firing subwoofers for a 2.2 channel sound experience.
From a connectivity point of view, the X95K has it all: Two 18Gbps HDMI 2.0 ports A 48Gbps HDMI 2.1 port with auto low-latency mode (ALLM), variable refresh rate (VRR), and 4K at 120Hz A second 48Gbps HDMI 2.1 port that supports the same features as above, plus HDMI eARC Like the Z9K, the X95K has the PlayStation 5-specific features: Auto HDR tone mapping and auto genre picture mode. It gets Sony’s new standard remote, which borrows the simplified layout and easy-clean qualities of the Z9K’s premium remote, but it lacks backlighting and the remote finder feature.
As with 2021’s X95J, you get voice-based commands through the TV’s built-in microphones, which can be disabled with a physical switch. Apple AirPlay 2 is supported (as it is on all 2022 Sony Bravia TVs) and you get a choice of two positions for the stand’s feet — a standard placement with the feet at each end, or a more central location for those with smaller tabletops.
Pricing and availability of the X95K will be released by Sony in spring 2022.
Editors' Recommendations Sony Bravia X95L mini-LED vs. TCL QM8 QLED: The best LCD TV and the one you should buy Mini-LED vs. QLED TV: how one technology is improving the other Denon AVR-X6800H: 8K everywhere and Dirac Live compatibility Hisense’s mini-LED U6K TV arrives, starting at $500 TCL’s 2023 mini-LED 4K TVs are shockingly affordable News Sony Tech News Audio / Video If you're in the market for a new TV and you've been patiently waiting to see how much Sony is asking for its 2023 models (and when you can buy them), today's the day you find out. Unless of course, you've been waiting to see what Sony wants for its latest flagship, the A95L 4K QD-OLED. In that case, we're the bearers of bad news: That model, in all three of its planned sizes (55-, 65-, and 77-inches,) is still MIA, and Sony hasn't indicated when that will change.
Sony Bravia A95L 4K QD-OLED TV Sony Audio / Video CES is not only a great event for checking out all the latest tech — it's also a barometer. You can tell when a new development is picking up steam as each year more and more players jump on the bandwagon. Conversely, you sometimes can see when a given technology is falling out of favor, as fewer and fewer products and services mention it in their marketing.
At CES 2023, a sudden drop in the number of new 8K products has me wondering about the future of this format.
Only two TV players Scott Ramirez, vice president of product marketing and development for TCL home theater, at CES 2023. The company was mum on any new 8K sets at this year's conference. Phil Nickinson/Digital Trends Audio / Video Samsung might not be the first company to produce an ultra short throw (UST) projector that can display a native 8K resolution image, but it claims that its new Premiere 8K is the first of its kind to display that image at a size of 150 diagonal inches. The company revealed the Premiere 8K at CES 2023 but did not immediately provide pricing or announce the projector's availability.
Until now, 8K UST projectors have been limited to image sizes of 120 inches. And while 120 inches is pretty big, especially when compared to existing 8K TVs, it's hard to argue that bigger isn't better, so now buyers can fill even more of their home theaters with 8K goodness.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
