Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Audio / Video Reviews TCL 8-Series mini-LED 4K HDR TV Review: Next-gen LED By Caleb Denison Close $2,000.00 Remarkable backlight control Minimal light bleed/halo effect Excellent HDR performance Solid out-of-box color Dolby Vision and Dolby Atmos capable Poor off-angle performance Audio quality is just ok It sometimes seems as if TV manufacturers try too hard to innovate. I get it; they feel the need to create something flashy which will generate excitement and a perceived need for the latest and greatest. All too often, “the next big thing” isn’t really that big at all.
The tech behind the tech 20,000 points of light OLED killer? I love it Picture this Our Take That’s not the case with the new TCL 8-Series TV, which uses a mini-LED backlighting system. This is a big deal.
Best 65-inch TV deals: Get a 65-inch 4K TV for under $300 The best TVs of 2023: from Samsung, LG, TCL, and more Mini-LED vs. QLED TV: how one technology is improving the other You might say that shrinking down the size of an LED backlight and using more of them (lots more) is more evolution than revolution. You’d be right. Yet sometimes the right evolution can bring about a revolution.
I first laid eyes on the 8-Series mini-LED at IFA earlier this year, and even among the bustle of the uncontrolled viewing environment, I knew it was something special.
With the 8-Series now on the market and priced far above any TCL TV and best televisions under $1,000 in the past — the 65-inch 65Q825 is $2000, while the 75-inch 75Q825 asks $3,000 — this is TCL’s first attempt to compete with established names like Sony, Samsung, and LG in high-end televisions. Does it succeed? The tech behind the tech If you were to dissect an LCD panel, you’d find up to 14 different layers, but you may be surprised that all those layers are useless without some form of a light source.
Samsung Display Today, that light source is LEDs, and thanks to progress, we now get a full array of them sitting directly behind the LCD sandwich.
Until now, the number of those LEDs would be in the hundreds. Some very advanced TVs might count them in the low thousands. TCL’s innovation is the use of smaller LEDs, so they now number in the tens of thousands. Over 25,000, in the case of the 75-inch model.
20,000 points of light Now let’s talk about how the rubber hits the road. What do you gain from having a whole lot more tiny LEDs? Control.
Since LCD displays have a tough time stopping all of the light shining behind from bleeding through, they struggle to produce deep blacks. And since deep black levels are a fundamental component of contrast, LCD TVs are usually compromised in that area. They just can’t compete with the likes of OLED.
TCL’s tech effectively mimics OLED. An OLED can hit deep black levels because pixels can be turned off entirely. The 25,000 LEDS in the TCL 8-Series use a similar tactic. If a portion of the screen is supposed to appear pitch black, the LEDs illuminating that part of the screen turn off.
That’s the theory. It’s a careful dance, in practice. Dimming all those LEDs and lighting them at just the right time requires a lot of processing power. I was concerned TCL might not have the chops to pull this off. After all, why haven’t we seen this kind of technology from Samsung, LG, Sony, or Vizio? Turns out, I didn’t need to be worried.
OLED killer? If you want to see what it’s like to set this TV up (and you should, because there are a few quirks involved) you can watch my unboxing and basic setup video.
 Now, if you don’t mind, I’m going to skip to the good stuff and help you decide if this TV performs well enough for its price, and why you might choose it over a competing LED/LCD TV or even an OLED TV.
Let’s be clear. This isn’t an OLED killer. First, it isn’t necessarily a cost-effective alternative for most people. The LG C9 OLED TV is just $100 more for the 65-inch screen size. Admittedly, though, if you step up to a larger screen size, the 75-inch TCL 8-series makes more sense coming in a good $2,000 less than LG’s $5,000 77-inch OLED.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Second, as good as the TCL 8-Series is, it can’t beat an OLED’s black levels. And while the halo effect is lessened, it isn’t completely eliminated. Finally, the TCL 8-Series doesn’t offer gamer-friendly options like auto low latency mode or variable refresh rate, as LG’s OLEDs do, nor does it have eARC for advanced audio pass-through.
Aside from a lack of potential for screen burn-in, the TCL 8-series still bows to LG OLEDs. So, no, it isn’t an OLED killer. But that doesn’t mean it isn’t the better choice for many people.
I love it For those who want outstanding picture quality with great 4K HDR performance and terrific brightness, the TCL 8-Series is an outstanding choice. If I had to choose between the Samsung Q90R , the Sony X950G , and a TCL 8-Series mini-LED, I’d have a tough time coming to a decision — and so would you.
TCL isn’t kidding around.
All three are excellent TVs, and I enjoy them for different reasons. I like the Sony’s cinematic look. I like the Samsung’s one-connect box, gamer-friendly attitude, and zesty color. I like the TCL’s tight light control and impressive contrast, along with its support for Dolby Vision and other HDR formats.
Still, TCL isn’t kidding around. It’s right in league with the companies that normally dominate flagship televisions.
I don’t usually advocate in favor of first-generation technology, but I am having a tough time coming up with a legitimate reason not to in this case. I suppose the one reservation I have is that I’ve seen variable panel quality with TCL, even with its previously top-tier 6-Series TVs. Some of them had what we call “dirty screen effect.” Large swaths of color can reveal inconsistencies in the LCD panel, which appear as blotches.
I can’t comment on how consistent the 8-Series quality will be in the long run. All I can say is that the review sample TCL sent me looks rock solid after a quick firmware update which took care of some over-brightening of HDR highlights, and a tendency to ramp down from dark grey to black a little too quickly.
Picture this The 8-Series is not perfect. It suffers from poor off-angle viewing — something the Samsung Q90R deals with effectively — and it can’t clean up nasty cable/satellite signals as impressively as the Sony X950G can. But for streaming entertainment, and Blu-ray discs ( 4K or otherwise) it looks fantastic.
I tested the TCL 8-Series mini-LED exhaustively using the same test patterns and content with which I’ve tested every other TV this year, and it held its own with the best across color volume, motion resolution, brightness, and upscaling categories. If you want to see for yourself, just check out the video at the top of this review. You can see the rich color, the bright (but not too bright) highlights, and the deep, inky blacks.
Or, you know, you can head down to the closes electronics store that carries one and feast your eyes for a while. I’m confident you’ll see what I see.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The TCL 8-Series TV’s stand-out feature is its black levels, which should be the envy of every other TV maker. And that might be the most important news. Because whether you have a real interest in purchasing this TV, or you’re just curious to hear how good it is, this TV redefines the LED/LCD TV tech category, and it can only mean others will follow suit. Yes, it is that good.
Our Take The TCL 8-Series creates a new class of television. It’s a trailblazer, and a remarkable TV in its own right. Standing right alongside the best models from Sony, Samsung, and Vizio, the TCL 8-Series is a landmark achievement for TCL, which improves by leaps and bounds every year. It should come as no surprise I’m adding it to our list of the Best TVs in 2019.
Is there a better alternative? The Samsung Q90R is a better choice for gamers thanks to its variable refresh rate and auto low latency mode, while the Sony X950G might scratch a cinephile’s itch a bit better than the TCL 8-series. Also, the LG C9 OLED is an outstanding option for those not concerned with burn-in or extreme brightness. If you’re looking at a 75-inch model, however, the TCL 8-Series is the most sensible choice on the market due to its significantly lower price.
How long will it last? This TV should last well into the next 4-5 years before new technologies leave it behind. My only concern here is the lack of HDMI 2.1 inputs and the features that come with them. This is not an important consideration right now, but it might be in the next couple of year or so.
Warranty TCL offers a one-year warranty against defects in materials or workmanship to the original owner of the television if purchased from an authorized retailer.
Should you buy it? Yes. The TCL 8-Series is a fine product and stands right up there with the best TVs you can buy this year.
Alternatively, if you’re concerned about price, you can also check the best 4K TV deals on the market.
Editors' Recommendations Best TV deals: Get a 65-inch 4K TV for under $300 and more Best Prime Day TV deals: 4K TVs, 8K TVs, QLED TVs, and OLED TVs Vizio’s new Quantum 4K QLED TVs hit 75 inches for $699 YouTube TV in 4K: Everything you need to know Hisense just debuted the world’s largest mini-LED TV at 100 inches Product Reviews TCL TV TV Reviews Audio / Video Samsung has released a new 8K TV and it's the company's biggest Neo QLED so far. The 98-inch class Samsung QN990C Neo QLED 8K TV can be ordered starting September 6 from samsung.com for an eye-watering $40,000.
As you'd expect for this kind of investment, Samsung has thrown all of its best TV tech at this giant 8K screen. Its Neural Quantum Processor uses AI-based formulas to upscale any content to 8K. It uses a full array local dimming (FALD) mini-LED backlight system with quantum dots, which can deliver more than a billion colors and high contrast, with support for HDR10+. With a stated peak brightness of about 2,000 nits, the QN990C should have no trouble making HDR material look its best.
Audio / Video TCL just dropped a bomb on the TV market.
Headlining a slate of new product announcements ahead of IFA -- the world's largest consumer electronics show -- TCL has announced its new flagship 4K TV model called the X955.
Audio / Video Samsung's line of Terrace outdoor TVs now has its biggest and brightest model yet. The 85-inch Class Terrace Full Sun is a Neo QLED 4K TV -- the first Terrace TV to use Samsung's mini-LED backlighting. At an eye-watering $20,000, it's not going to be for everyone, but if you have the means and the desire, it can be preordered via Samsung.com between August 29 and September 10.
Samsung says the 85-inch Class Terrace Full Sun can stay bright even on the sunniest days -- up to six hours in sunlight at 700 watts and 104 degrees Fahrenheit -- thanks to Direct-Sun Protection. The company notes that brightness may decrease to protect the panel from other high temperature and sunlight conditions. Even the included Samsung SolarCell Remote is sun-friendly, and can recharge itself using indoor or outdoor light sources.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
