Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Audio / Video Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? What is PHOLED? Your eyes (and your utility bill) are going to love it By Simon Cohen Close The TV industry loves its acronyms, and we’ve got one more you should know about: PHOLED, which stands for Phosphorescent OLED.
More light, less heat Red, green … and blue? Who’s blue? How is a PHOLED TV different from an OLED TV? Does PHOLED offer any other advantages? When will I be able to buy a PHOLED TV? Is PHOLED the end of the line for OLED TV development? Is PHOLED the best TV technology? That sounds like it might be a new kind of OLED TV tech, but it’s actually an enhancement of how existing OLED panels are built — one that promises far better energy efficiency, and possibly better brightness too. Here’s what you need to know.
More light, less heat Universal Display Corporation OLED technology — that’s Organic Light-Emitting Diode — uses individually-lit pixels, giving OLED TVs their distinctive perfect blacks and gorgeous colors. Electricity passes through the OLED material in each pixel, causing the material to emit photons (light) at different wavelengths.
Sharp’s promised Roku OLED TV is now available and deeply discounted The best Amazon Fire TV device you should buy in 2023 Best QLED TV deals: Get a 50-inch QLED TV for $250 and more What’s rarely discussed is that there are actually two kinds of OLED material. The first, and more common kind is fluorescent OLED material. Currently, all OLED and QD-OLED TVs are built using fluorescent OLED material as their primary light source.
Energized fluorescent OLED material converts electricity into light, but it also creates heat — quite a lot of it. For every unit of energy you pump into fluorescent OLED, the material emits 25% light and 75% heat.
Universal Display Corporation The second, less common type of OLED is phosphorescent OLED. When phosphorescent OLED material (PHOLED) is energized, that light-to-heat ratio becomes far more efficient at creating light — nearly 100% light and zero heat.
Red, green … and blue? 1.
A UDC chemist examines red PHOLED material.
2.
A UDC chemist examines green PHOLED material.
If PHOLED is clearly better at converting energy into light, why are companies like LG and Samsung still using inferior fluorescent OLED material? It turns out that it’s not so easy to chemically synthesize PHOLED material in such a way that it retains the other properties needed when using OLED in a TV.
It’s not enough for a PHOLED pixel to emit light at a nearly 100% level of efficiency — it also needs to produce a very specific range of wavelengths and it needs to last for thousands of hours. No one is going to buy a TV that loses half of its brightness after just a few hundred hours of use.
While the ability to create stable and accurate red PHOLED happened in 2003, and green PHOLED in 2013, the goal of an equally high-performance blue PHOLED has remained out of reach. That presents a big hurdle for the TV world.
At the moment, red and green OLED materials are predominantly used in mobile phone-, tablet-, and laptop-sized displays. They very rarely show up in TV-sized panels (this very expensive, 24-inch Sony broadcast mastering monitor being among the exceptions). Blue OLED, on the other hand, is a foundational ingredient in both LG Display’s WOLED and Samsung Display’s QD-OLED panels.
In LG’s panels, blue OLED is mixed with yellow-green OLED to create full-spectrum white light (which is then processed by a color filter). Samsung’s QD-OLED uses blue OLED as its exclusive source of light for each pixel and then converts some of the blue light into red and green light using quantum dots.
Who’s blue? A UDC chemist illuminating developmental phosphorescent blue OLED materials.
Universal Display Corporation The reason we’re now talking about PHOLED as the next evolution of OLED TV tech is that Universal Display Corporation (UDC) — a global leader in the development and manufacture of OLED material — claims it has finally produced blue PHOLED material that is able to withstand the demands of constant and long-term use in a home TV and is currently readying it for mass manufacturing.
LG Display and Samsung Display — the only manufacturers producing OLED TV panels at scale — have yet to announce any plans to use UDC’s blue PHOLED material, but there have been several reports suggesting that both companies are actively investigating the possibility.
How is a PHOLED TV different from an OLED TV? Samsung Electronics S95C OLED TV uses a QD-OLED panel.
Douglas Murray/Digital Trends When PHOLED-based TVs eventually become available, it’s possible that the biggest difference will be felt in our electricity bills. If a PHOLED panel is truly 300% more energy efficient than today’s OLED panels (assuming a similar level of brightness), that means PHOLED TVs will use 75% less electricity to produce light. The OLED panel isn’t the only component of a TV that uses energy — processors, Wi-Fi, and speakers all use it too — but the panel itself is easily the biggest electricity consumer.
That kind of reduction of energy might not impact your wallet significantly (or maybe you watch a LOT of TV and it will?) but the knock-on effect of such a big efficiency gain could be huge for the carbon footprint of TVs on a global basis.
Curiously, the benefits of PHOLED may not be evenly distributed among OLED TVs. Because LG’s WOLED panels mix blue fluorescent OLED and yellow-green phosphorescent OLED materials, only the blue portion would see any change. Samsung’s QD-OLED panels only use blue fluorescent OLED, giving them a theoretically greater energy efficiency advantage after being upgraded to blue PHOLED.
UDC has suggested that PHOLED’s greater efficiency could also be translated into higher brightness. The company hasn’t offered any specific measurements, but given that one of today’s brightest OLED TVs — the Samsung S95C — can create 1,600 to 2,000 nits of peak brightness, even a modest 25% increase would yield 2,000 to 2,500 nits. That’s bright enough to nearly erase QLED’s brightness advantage over OLED in brightly lit rooms.
Does PHOLED offer any other advantages? An example of screen burn-in on an OLED TV. Note that the visible zebra pattern at the top left, known as moire, is caused by taking a photograph of a TV screen and is not part of the burn-in.
Ian O'Shaughnessy / Digital Trends Even if PHOLED technology is only used to reduce energy consumption, the fact that it converts electricity into light, without any waste heat, could mean a longer lifespan for an OLED TV. Heat is like kryptonite to most electronics, so any reduction in heat is a good thing.
OLED material has the propensity to suffer burn-in under extreme viewing conditions. Burn-in (the appearance of shadows and other image artifacts) is the result of the uneven aging of OLED pixels. It’s rare, but it can happen.
Though UDC hasn’t made any claims regarding burn-in, we believe there’s a strong chance that PHOLED TVs will be more resistant to the problem. Passing an electrical current through OLED material causes it to age. The higher the voltage, the brighter it gets, but the more heat it generates (recall that fluorescent OLED outputs three units of heat for every one unit of light) — and that will shorten its lifespan.
If PHOLED can achieve similar levels of brightness with less energy (and no heat), the material should age at a slower rate.
When will I be able to buy a PHOLED TV? UDC says it’s on track to start shipping its blue PHOLED material to its customers in 2024. If that timing proves accurate, we may see the first PHOLED-based TVs arrive as early as 2025.
Is PHOLED the end of the line for OLED TV development? A rendering of UDC’s OVJP system for printing RGB OLED panels.
Universal Display Corporation It looks as though PHOLED is going to be the leading OLED material for years to come, but UDC thinks it has another technology that could be just as transformative if it’s adopted by TV makers. Known as Organic Vapor Jet Printing (OJVP), it’s a new way of directly printing red, green, and blue PHOLED material onto TV-sized panels.
OLED panels created using OJVP would have the same RGB pixel composition as that high-end Sony OLED monitor, but with a much lower manufacturing cost. In theory, this could lead to the cheapest, highest-performance OLED TVs we’ve ever seen.
Don’t get too excited about it just yet — UDC is only in the early stages of prepping OJVP for commercialization and no manufacturers have announced an intention to use it.
Is PHOLED the best TV technology? We should think of PHOLED as a small evolution of existing technology — one that supercharges OLED for better performance and efficiency, but it doesn’t fundamentally change the nature of OLED TVs.
In the not-so-distant future, we expect to see the emergence of QDEL (quantum dot electroluminescence) displays with light-emitting pixels made exclusively from red, green, and blue quantum dots — no OLED needed and thus no burn-in risk.
Another display technology that is already available and becoming more affordable each year is microLED , which uses tiny RGB LED subpixels that can get achingly bright, again with no burn-in.
Editors' Recommendations Hisense teases 110-inch, 10,000-nit TV ahead of CES 2024 Best TV deals: Get a 65-inch 4K TV for under $300 and more What is Apple TV+? Pricing, features, how to get it, and more Best Samsung TV deals: Save on QLED and OLED TVs Best OLED TV deals: Save on LG C3, Samsung S90C, and more LG Samsung TV Audio / Video If your eyes are squarely on buying a 65-inch TV, you need to check out TV deals with a focus on that size. That's why we've listened all the best 65-inch TV deals currently available below, so you don't have to go searching yourself. The TVs below cover a variety of different technologies as well as price ranges so there's something for you regardless of what your plans are. Take a look below at what we've picked out.
Onn. 65-inch 4K TV -- $298, was $348 The Onn. 65-inch 4K TV is a straightforward TV that's ideal if you're on a budget but still want a large TV. It has Roku Smart TV built-in so you have access to thousands of free or paid channels meaning an impressive amount of options of what to watch. There's also voice control support via the Roku mobile app so you can easily speak commands instead of typing things in with the remote. Three HDMI ports are useful if you have many devices to hook up.
Audio / Video When new TVs arrive online and to brick-and-mortar retailers, many of us are conditioned to expect highway robbery-type prices, and in many cases, we get just that. Premium and flagship models are always going to be expensive, and other than waiting for the prices to drop when next year’s models start hitting shelves, there’s not much we can do. But did you know that you don’t actually have to spend a ton of moolah to drive home with an amazing TV? In fact, some of the best TVs of 2023 are available for $1,000 or less! We're not kidding, and we've done the tough job of vetting and testing the best TVs under $1,000 that you can buy right now. And guess what? One of the models is the amazing Hisense U8K, one of our favorite QLED TVs for 2023.
Audio / Video If you’re a connoisseur of great picture quality, or you simply want your new TV to deliver rich colors and incredible contrast, you should be looking at OLEDs. For years now, LG has been the go-to manufacturer of OLED TVs and OLED displays, and even if you buy a Samsung or Sony OLED, chances are that the screen is actually made by LG Display (the company’s panel division). But what exactly makes an OLED so great, you may be asking? The biggest pro these sets have over QLEDs and traditional LEDs is that OLEDs don’t have LED backlights.
This is because an OLED (organic light-emitting diode) panel is made up of millions of self-emissive pixels that can individually be toggled on and off, which is how these TVs are able to achieve the kind of black levels that only plasma sets once rivaled. If you like what you’re reading so far, we have no doubt you’ll enjoy the best OLEDs of 2023 roundup we’ve compiled below. We’ve also had the honor of testing many of these TVs ourselves and have provided links to our full reviews when applicable.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
