Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Features Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? This exclusive Snapdragon chip supercharges the Galaxy S23 in 4 big ways By Andy Boxall Close The Samsung Galaxy S23, Galaxy S23 Plus , and Galaxy S23 Ultra all use the Qualcomm Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 processor — but it’s not just any Snapdragon 8 Gen 2. It’s the Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 For Galaxy, and it’s a little different from the chip found in other, non-Samsung smartphones.
Power — lots and lots of power Made to be a gaming beast Plenty of camera upgrades AI, connectivity, and security No, it’s not just a marketing gimmick for Samsung. The Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 inside a Galaxy S23 is different from than one that’ll be used in other Android phones throughout 2023. Here are four of the most important ways the processor changed, and what it means for the Galaxy S23.
Power — lots and lots of power Andrew Martonik/Digital Trends The Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 for Galaxy is the fastest Snapdragon processor ever made, according to the company. The CPU has a maximum peak clock speed of 3.36GHz, up from the 3.2GHz peak it claims for the regular version of the chip.
In an interview with Digital Trends ahead of the Galaxy S23’s launch, Samsung U.K. and Ireland’s vice president of product management, Nick Porter, talked about the difference this makes over the Snapdragon 8 Gen 1 in the Galaxy S22 : The Samsung Galaxy S24 just leaked with a few big surprises How one bad decision is ruining all of Samsung’s new phones Samsung messed up the Galaxy Z Flip 5’s most important feature “The upgraded performance driven by the Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 For Galaxy over the S22 is just incredible. We’re talking over 50% improved performance, over 40% increased CPU performance, and over 30% increased CPU performance when compared to the S22. So that means everything you do on the phone is going to be snappier, more responsive, more power efficient than ever before on the entire Galaxy S23 series.” Samsung and Qualcomm’s efforts to maximize performance from the Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 for the Galaxy S23 series goes beyond even that of Asus and Qualcomm, when the pair incorporated so-called “binned” versions of Snapdragon chips into ROG Phone gaming devices.
Made to be a gaming beast Andrew Martonik/Digital Trends The Snapdragon 8 Gen 2’s Adreno GPU has also been upgraded for improved performance and efficiency. Like other versions of the chip, it can display hardware-accelerated ray tracing effects, it supports the latest Vulkan APIs, plus it integrates an improved version of the Snapdragon Game Post Processing Accelerator.
Porter was very confident about the Galaxy S23 series’ potential as a winning gaming phone, and it’s not just the GPU improvements that are set to do this, it’s also the chip’s greater efficiency and a new cooling chamber in the Ultra: “This is our first premium smartphone developed with mobile gaming at the forefront,” he said. “We’ve got a 2.7x larger vapor chamber in the S23 series, and the 5,000mAh battery is going to perform 20% longer than any of the batteries we’ve had in a Galaxy device. That means that when you’re running really challenging games, which are pushing the phones to the limit, we can run them at the highest resolution, at the fastest frame rate, for the longest time.” Plenty of camera upgrades Joe Maring/Digital Trends The Galaxy S23 Ultra’s 200-megapixel camera, along with the 50MP main cameras on the Galaxy S23 and Galaxy S23 Plus, have all benefitted from Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 For Galaxy’s tight integration with the hardware.
This includes Snapdragon Sight, Qualcomm’s behind-the-scenes software solution for cameras, and the first use of the Snapdragon Cognitive ISP in a smartphone. These enhancements will improve lowlight and night photography, reduce noise in photos, and provide dramatically improved 30x and 100x zoom photos.
AI, connectivity, and security Andrew Martonik/Digital Trends Speed, camera, and gaming performance are always going to capture the headlines — but there’s plenty more inside the Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 For Galaxy that promises to make the S23 series a fast, usable, and reliable everyday phone. It has dual AI processors as part of the Qualcomm Sensing Hub, which helps isolate and remove background noise and echo during calls. The Qualcomm Fast Connect system works to provide fast Wi-Fi speeds, low latency, and better Bluetooth connections. Finally, under the display is Qualcomm’s acoustic 3D Sonic Sensor Gen 2 fingerprint scanner.
There’s still no headphone jack, though.
We’ve already been impressed by the Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 inside the Iqoo 11 , and early impressions of the Galaxy S23 Ultra, along with the Galaxy S23 and Galaxy S23 Plus, are even more positive. The Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 For Galaxy may sound like marketing speak, but there really are meaningful alterations inside that are exclusive to the Galaxy S23 series — and they go beyond simply providing a slightly higher clock speed.
You can pre-order the Samsung Galaxy S23 now.
Editors' Recommendations Samsung Galaxy S24: news, rumored price, release date, and more There’s a big problem with Samsung’s new Android tablets 10 big things you missed from Samsung Unpacked 2023 Samsung just announced 3 new Android tablets. Here’s a first look This tiny Android phone almost ruined the Galaxy S23 Ultra for me Features Qualcomm Samsung Mobile The Samsung Galaxy Note changed the mobile industry when it arrived, and it became a firm favorite with a lot of people. Its committed, passionate fanbase is perhaps only rivaled by those who love the iPhone.
But all that was a long time ago, and now in mid-2023, I’m very glad Samsung killed the Note when it did.
The Samsung Galaxy Note needed to die Galaxy Note 10 Plus (left) and Galaxy Note 20 Ultra (right) Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Mobile Samsung's next Galaxy Unpacked is almost here, and in typical Samsung fashion, the company is offering a small glimpse of what we can expect from the festivities next week.
TM Roh, the current head of Samsung's Mobile division, just shared his pre-Unpacked letter. While it's mostly marketing hype to get Samsung fans excited about next week's Unpacked event, there are a few teases that give us a small glimpse of what to expect.
Samsung's foldables are getting lighter Mobile It's been about five months since the Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra hit the scene. In the time since then, the S23 Ultra has made it obvious why it's one of the best smartphones money can buy. It looks great, has incredible performance, and has one of the most versatile cameras on the market.
Although the Galaxy S23 Ultra isn't my main Android phone these days, it is one that I love coming back to — and for one reason. The camera! The entire camera system on the Galaxy S23 Ultra has proven its worth time and time again, and over the course of this year, one aspect of it has stood out among every other phone I've used.
The telephoto camera is too good Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
