Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Share Wi-Fi Password on iPhone How to Restart iPhone Screen Record on iPhone Back Up an iPhone Clear Cache on iPhone Share Location on iPhone Home Mobile Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best iPhone 15 Pro Max cases in 2023: the 20 best ones By Bryan M. Wolfe Close It’s no surprise that the iPhone 15 Pro Max is Apple’s most feature-packed smartphone to date. It is important to note that even though the iPhone 15 Pro Max is both durable and lightweight, with its 6.7-inch screen and titanium casing, it can still get damaged during an accident and crack or shatter. To keep your newest iPhone in good condition, it is highly recommended that you invest in one or two protective cases to keep it safe and secure.
Fortunately, we have compiled a list of the 20 best iPhone 15 Pro Max cases that you can purchase right now. Take a look below; we are confident that you will find something that meets your needs.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
More More More elago Elago Case The best budget iPhone 15 Pro Max case Great feel Lots of unique colors Terrific low price No MagSafe compatibility If you're on the hunt for an affordable silicone case to keep your iPhone 15 Pro Max safe and stylish, look no further than this offering from Elago.
With a wide range of color options to choose from, this case boasts a liquid silicon exterior that feels great to the touch and a soft microfiber lining that provides an extra layer of protection. However, it's worth noting that this case is not compatible with MagSafe or any other forms of wireless charging.
Bellroy Bellroy Mod Phone Case + Wallet The best combination iPhone 15 Pro Max case All-in-one solution Eco-tanned leather Beautiful design Pricey With a magnetic locking system that sets it apart from the competition, this Bellroy case is an impressive accessory that caters to everyone's needs. Its compatibility with MagSafe and wireless charging are among many features. The slim wallet that comes with the case is capable of attaching to it and can accommodate up to three cards.
This iPhone 15 Pro Max case is constructed from eco-tanned leather that covers the edges and offers optimal protection through polymer bumpers. It also has an anodized aluminum button and soft microfiber lining. The case is available in four unique colors, including Black, Cobalt, Everglade, and Terracotta.
ESR ESR for iPhone 15 Pro Max Case The best bundle iPhone 15 Pro Max case Excellent durability Includes fully adjustable stand Comes with a screen protector and camera lens covers Higher price than others This case for the iPhone 15 Pro Max is resistant to yellowing and offers dual tempered glass screen protectors along with tempered glass protectors for the individual camera lenses.
The magnetic lock is robust and utilizes magnets that are compatible with both MagSafe chargers and accessories. The hard acrylic back, reinforced by shock-absorbing edges and durable Air Guard corners, delivers protection that surpasses military grade standards.
Humixx Humixx Magnetic The best alternative iPhone 15 Pro Max case Great protection Strong magnets Affordable Limited colors This outstanding iPhone 15 Pro Max case is a great choice for those looking for both MagSafe compatibility and top-notch protection. It boasts an impressive 18N magnetic force, which is a significant upgrade from the typical 7N strength of regular magnets. As a result, this case offers a magnetic force that is 38% more powerful, making it the perfect solution for those seeking wireless charging, a battery pack, or a car mount.
This case also provides excellent protection against drops from as high as 14 feet and features a slim and transparent design that is a great budget-friendly alternative to a similar Apple product.
Spigen Spigen Ultra Hybrid MagFit The best geeky iPhone 15 Pro Max case Unique design Various style options Compatible with MagSafe Bulkier than some For those in search of something distinctive, the Spigen Ultra Hybrid MagFit for the iPhone 15 Pro Max Ultra may be a worthwhile consideration. With a range of color combinations available, this case offers protection against scratches and drops, and is a visually appealing addition to your device.
Constructed using thermoplastic polyurethane and polycarbonate materials, it fits snugly and securely onto your new iPhone. Additional features include Air Cushion technology for drop protection, raised edges for camera and screen protection, and compatibility with wireless charging and MagSafe.
CASETiFY Casetify Bounce Case The best design iPhone 15 Pro Max case Iconic design Lots of color options Durability Pricier than many others Not everyone will like the expanded corners For several years, the Casetify Bounce Case has remained a top preference for those seeking to purchase an iPhone case. Its eye-catching design is available in different colors, and it supports both MagSafe and wireless charging.
In addition, it provides a 21.3-foot drop safeguard and has a raised bezel for the protection of the screen. Its ability to absorb shocks from any direction adds to its overall protection.
AICase AICase Rugged Case The best value iPhone 15 Pro Max case Includes glass screen protector Various colors Low price Lacks style Although some may question the necessity of a glass screen protector, this particular case offers an additional level of protection with the inclusion of one. The case boasts a dual-layer design, which comprises a soft and gentle interior and a sturdy exterior.
Thanks to this unique composition, the case excels at absorbing and redirecting the impact of any drops it may encounter. What's more, the case's remarkable durability has been rigorously tested, demonstrating its ability to withstand falls of up to an incredible 20 feet.
Nomad Nomad Modern Leather Case The best leather iPhone 15 Pro Max case Two leather options to choose from Stunning patina over time Good, reliable protection A little pricey Leather cases are everywhere for the iPhone 15 Pro Max, but if you want one of the very best money can buy, the Nomad Modern Leather Case is tough to beat.
Nomad offers its leather case in two styles, including a custom leather from Nomad or a more premium Horween leather option. Regardless of which one you choose, both styles offer reliable protection and benefit from a lovely patina that gets better the longer you use the case. The price is a bit up there, but if you want a leather case you'll be happy to carry, this is it.
Apple Apple Silicone Case with MagSafe The best official iPhone 15 Pro Max Case Official Apple case Seasonal colors The silicone material feels incredible Yes, it's expensive The Apple Silicone case was one of the first cases ever released for iPhone, and it is like no other. It has a silky, soft-touch finish on the outside and a soft microfiber lining inside. The case comes with built-in magnets for wireless charging using both for MagSafe and Qi-certified chargers. Apple releases seasonal colors for this lineup throughout the year, so you can always find one that matches your mood, style, and the time of year.
More Otterbox OtterBox OtterGrip Symmetry Series The best grip iPhone 15 Pro Max case Works with MagSafe accessories Unique colors Integrated grip on the back Not the most affordable Otterbox is known for providing top-quality cases for iPhone. Among its offerings, the OtterGrip Symmetry Series Case stands out for its unique features. Not only does it provide a firm grip, but it is also MagSafe compatible.
These cases come in various styles and colors, such as You Do Blue, Aspen Gleam 2.0, Island Getaway, On The Spot, and Iron Camo. If you prefer a classic look, you can also choose the traditional black.
More CASETiFY Casetify Impact Case The best unique iPhone 15 Pro Max case Lots of unique designs 8.2-foot drop protection MagSafe compatible Some styles won't be for everyone The Casetify Impact Case offers protection against drops from a height of 8.2 feet. It features side sockets to attach charms easily and allows for wireless charging and MagSafe compatibility. The standout feature of these cases is the variety of design options available, such as the Magic Mushroom case or the “Funny Green Dinos, Cute Dinosaurs” case. These cases not only offer unique designs, but also protect your investment while making a statement.
Bellroy Bellroy Phone Case The best wallet iPhone 15 Pro Max case Room for three credit cards Eco-friendly leather Good drop protection Doesn't support wireless charging The Bellroy Phone Case is the perfect blend of style and functionality. Made from premium, eco-tanned leather, this case boasts an elegant and sophisticated look that is sure to turn heads. But it's not just about looks -- the Bellroy Phone Case also has plenty of practical features to make your life easier.
One of the standout features of this case is the integrated card storage. With space for up to three bank cards, you can leave your bulky wallet at home and travel light. The polymer bumpers provide excellent protection against bumps and drops, while the soft microfiber lining keeps your phone looking like new.
URBAN ARMOR GEAR Urban Armor Gear UAG Case The best military-grade iPhone 15 Pro Max case 18 feet of drop protection More than 10 color options Made with 50% recycled materials Too bulky for some This iPhone 15 Pro Max case from UAG is made with lightweight material, but is still incredibly strong. It provides impressive 18-foot drop protection and is compatible with MagSafe charging. It is also designed to be used with lanyard cards. The case is made with 50% recycled materials and features an impact-resistant soft core and torsion screw detail with a hexagonal pattern for better shock absorption.
More Tech21 Tech21 Evo Crystal Kick case The best kickstand iPhone 15 Pro Max case Versatile design 16-foot drop protection Won't yellow or fade Limited color choices The Tech21 case is the ultimate solution for protecting your device from accidental drops and daily wear and tear. Its shock-absorbing FlexShock technology provides multi-drop protection up to 16 feet, ensuring that your device remains safe and secure even in the most unexpected situations.
The case also features an integrated kickstand that allows for comfortable portrait and landscape viewing, making it perfect for streaming videos or videoconferencing. The case is also UV-resistant, which prevents it from yellowing or fading over time. Its sleek design is available in three colors: Clear Black, White, and Obsidian Black.
MOFAS MOFT MOVAS The best vegan leather iPhone 15 Pro Max case Lanyard compatibility Outperforms real leather Colorful add-ons that match Pricer than some The MOFT MOVAS case is made of vegan leather that is both stain-resistant and scratch-resistant. It is easy to clean and has a soothing sheen. Unlike genuine leather, this case comes with lanyard compatibility thanks to an included lanyard anchor.
The raised ring around the camera lenses is 1mm higher than most cases, which helps to shield them from scratches without adding any extra bulk. The case is about 12mm thick, providing a comfortable grip. It is currently available in Jet Black, Seafood, Misty Cove, Blackberry, and Sapphire. The company also offers a variety of matching accessories such as phone tripod stands, stand wallets, and more.
Incipio Incipio Cru. Protective for MagSafe The best camo iPhone 15 Pro Max case Unique camo design Eight-foot drop protection Compatible with MagSafe accessories Limited color choices The Incipio case is a must-have accessory for anyone looking to protect their phone while keeping it stylish. With a fresh camo design that is unlike any other, this case is sure to turn heads. But it's not just a pretty face — it also offers eight feet of drop protection, ensuring your phone stays safe from accidental drops and bumps. In addition to the protective features, the case includes built-in magnets for MagSafe, allowing you to easily attach and detach your phone from other MagSafe-compatible accessories.
The raised edge screen also provides an additional layer of protection, keeping your phone's screen safe from scratches and cracks. The case is available in two camouflage colors — navy and black — each with its own unique design. But if camo isn't your style, you can also find the case in navy canvas and brown faux leather, giving you even more options to choose from.
Otterbox Otterbox Commuter Best traditional iPhone 15 Pro Max case Solid and reliable Excellent protection Made from recycled plastic Slightly boring design If you’re looking for a flashy case, this might not be the one for you. However, if you want a reliable iPhone case that has withstood the test of time, then you should consider the Otterbox Commuter case.
This traditional case comes in various colors and provides three times the drop protection as per military standards. It boasts of a slim profile that easily fits in pockets. Moreover, the dual-layer case is made from 35% recycled plastic and has a rigid outer shell for added protection. The inside has a rubber cover that absorbs impact, making it incredibly durable.
Twelve South Twelve South BookBook The best 3-in-1 iPhone 15 Pro Max case Multiple uses A truly iconic design Is it a book? It's very expensive The BookBook cases from Twelve South are renowned for their unique appearance. They provide ample space for your cards and phone case. If you prefer not to carry the BookBook, it also has a detachable MagSafe case.
Additionally, it can be used in hands-free stand mode. The case is constructed from full-grain leather that develops a patina over time, with a microfiber interior. The new and improved design now features raised edges around the camera and screen, preventing contact with flat surfaces.
Mujjo Mujjo Leather Wallet The best alternative wallet iPhone 15 Pro Max case Lightweight Five color options Works with MagSafe Limited card space If you’re searching for a wallet case that doesn’t overdo it, the Mujjo case is an excellent choice. It can hold only two to three cards, which makes it a slim and stylish solution for carrying essential cards.
The case features a raised leather bezel that protects the screen and supports MagSafe. It is created from premium European leather that develops a patina over time. The metal buttons, camera bump, microfiber lining, and polycarbonate shell are all made from recycled materials. The case is available in black, burgundy, dark tan, light tan, and blue.
Lanhiem Lanhiem Magnetic The best screen protector iPhone 15 Pro Max case Excellent price MagSafe support Built-in screen protector Waterproof design Very bulky The Lanhiem Magnetic case is certified with IP68, which means it can be submerged in water up to 6.6 feet deep for a maximum of 60 minutes. It can be charged both wirelessly and with MagSafe, and comes with a built-in HD screen protector and a clear back cover.
Although the case is lightweight, it appears slightly bulky. The case is made of a combination of TPU material and a fortified frame, which provides military-grade protection from all angles. It even comes with a phone strap for easy carrying.
Editors' Recommendations Best refurbished Apple Black Friday deals on AirPods, iPads, iPhones, and more Over 3,000 iPhone 15 cases discounted for early Black Friday — from $3 This sealed-in-box iPhone can be yours for under $150 today The best health and fitness apps for iPhone in 2023: 18 best ones The best phones in 2023: our 15 favorite smartphones right now Apple Apple iPhone Best Products Mobile If you can no longer wait for Black Friday to buy a new smartphone, the good news is that you can already take advantage of some early Black Friday phone deals. We're not sure until when they'll remain available, and if their prices will change once the shopping holiday arrives, but if you're interested in any of the offers that we've highlighted below, it's highly recommended that you proceed with the purchase immediately.
Apple iPhone 15 -- $60 per month Mobile Waiting on an iPhone upgrade? Now is the time to pounce, as the newest additions to Apple's legendary roster were confirmed at its September 2023 event. The belles of the ball this year have to be the upgraded iPhone 15 and iPhone 15 Plus models, which have finally received the design update the iPhone 14 Pro and iPhone 14 Pro Max received last year. Now equipped with the Dynamic Island across the hole-punch selfie camera, the gulf between the iPhone and iPhone Pro has lessened again.
If you're eagerly awaiting your upgrade, or if this is your first iPhone, you'll be wanting to keep it safe. Smartphones tend to be with us throughout our day, and that means they can fall prey to any one of a number of hazards. Bumps, drops, even scratches from sharing your pocket with keys or coins; the list is near endless. The last thing you want is for your new phone to end up scratched, chipped, or even completely broken. Thankfully, a good protective case can stop that from happening. Here are some of the best Apple iPhone 15 cases you can buy right now.
Mobile When you have the best iPhone, you pretty much have infinite possibilities for keepingbusy and entertained, no matter where you are. Sure, the iPhone may not be marketed as a gaming phone specifically, but it's pretty powerful — especially with the A17 Pro in the latest iPhone 15 Pro. That new processor means the Apple mobile gaming experience is only getting better and better, with Apple's new chip being able to play console-level games like Assassin's Creed Mirage and the Resident Evil 4 remake.
While those games aren't available yet, there's no shortage of great games to play. But when the App Store has over a million apps, how are you supposed to find the best games to play? Don't worry -- we're here to help! Since there are a ton of games out there — and not every game is a winner — it's definitely hard to find games that are worth your time and energy. Whether you're looking for a simple match 3, an MMORPG, a dungeon crawler, or even something to just relax with, here are the best iPhone games you can play right now.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
