Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Share Wi-Fi Password on iPhone How to Restart iPhone Screen Record on iPhone Back Up an iPhone Clear Cache on iPhone Share Location on iPhone Home Mobile Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? I’d recommend these early Black Friday phone deals if you can’t wait By John Alexander Close If you can no longer wait for Black Friday to buy a new smartphone, the good news is that you can already take advantage of some early Black Friday phone deals. We’re not sure until when they’ll remain available, and if their prices will change once the shopping holiday arrives, but if you’re interested in any of the offers that we’ve highlighted below, it’s highly recommended that you proceed with the purchase immediately.
Apple iPhone 15 — $60 per month Apple iPhone SE 2022 — $149, was $379 OnePlus Nord N30 5G — $270, was $300 Motorola Razr+ — $800, was $1,000 Samsung Galaxy Z Flip 5 — $900, was $1,000 Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 5 — $1,500, was $1,800 Apple iPhone 15 — $60 per month Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends If you want to get the latest iPhone, the Apple iPhone 15 , for free, sign up for a Boost Infinite plan. You’ll have to pay $60 per month for 36 months, but you’ll get unlimited calls, text messages, and data, and you’ll also receive annual upgrades to new iPhone models. The iPhone 15 features Apple’s A16 Bionic chip, a 6.1-inch Super Retina XDR OLED display that supports HDR10 and Dolby Vision, a 48MP main camera and a 12MP ultrawide lens with a 120-degree field of view at the back, and a switch to a USB-C port for charging.
Apple iPhone SE 2022 — $149, was $379 Andy Boxall / Digital Trends The third-generation Apple iPhone SE , released in 2022, is powered by Apple’s A15 Bionic chip, which is the same processor that you’ll find inside the iPhone 14.
 The smartphone is equipped with a 4.7-inch Retina HD display, a 12MP Wide camera at the back, and a 7MP FaceTime HD camera at the front. It still has the Home button, which enables the Touch ID fingerprint recognition system. This version of the Apple iPhone SE 2022, however, is locked to only work with a Straight Talk prepaid plan.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
OnePlus Nord N30 5G — $270, was $300 Joe Maring/Digital Trends / Digital Trends The OnePlus Nord N30 5G is listed in our roundup of the best Android phones as the runner-up for the best cheap Android phone, partly because of reliable performance from its Qualcomm Snapdragon 695 processor and 8GB of RAM, plus an amazing 6.7-inch LCD display with a 120Hz refresh rate. The smartphone runs on OnePlus’ OxygenOS 13.1 out of the box, and it features a 108MP main camera at the back that’s supported by a 2MP depth sensor and a 2MP macro camera.
Motorola Razr+ — $800, was $1,000 Andy Boxall / Digital Trends The Motorola Razr+ is a foldable smartphone with a 6.9-inch pOLED display inside that’s bright and gorgeous with 2640 x 1080 resolution and a 165Hz refresh rate, but the first thing that you’ll notice is the 3.6-inch pOLED cover screen with 1066 x 1056 resolution and a 144Hz refresh rate, as you’ll be able to access all of the important apps through it without having to open the device. The smartphone is powered by the Qualcomm Snapdragon 8+ Gen 1 processor, 8Gb of RAM, and 256GB of internal storage.
Samsung Galaxy Z Flip 5 — $900, was $1,000 Tushar Mehta / Digital Trends The Samsung Galaxy Z Flip 5 is extremely well-built, which is a definite improvement from its predecessors. The Flex Hinge allows the smartphone to fold completely flat, unlike previous models, and the 3.4-inch Super AMOLED cover screen with a resolution of 720 x 748 and a 60Hz refresh rate is much more useful. Inside, the 6.7-inch Dynamic AMOLED 2X display with a 2640 x 1080 resolution and a 120Hz refresh rate is simply gorgeous, with smooth performance and 256GB of internal storage.
Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 5 — $1,500, was $1,800 Prakhar Khanna / Digital Trends We tagged the Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 5 as the best foldable phone in our list of the best phones partly because, despite its 6.2-inch, 2316 x 904 resolution cover display and 7.6-inch, 2176 x 1812 resolution inner display, it’s thinner and lighter than ever, with a high-quality hinge and durable chassis that solves the major issue of previous generations. It comes with a 50MP main, 12MP ultrawide, and 10MP telephoto sensors at the back, and it’s powered by the Qualcomm Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 processor.
Editors' Recommendations Best iPad Black Friday deals: iPad Mini, iPad Air, iPad Pro, and more Black Friday Apple Watch deals: Save on Series 9, Ultra, and more Walmart Black Friday deals: The best offers you can shop now Best Amazon Fire tablet Black Friday deals: Get a tablet for $40 Google Pixel Black Friday deals: Pixel 8, Pixel Watch, Pixel Buds and more Android Apple Buying Guides Deals Android Apple Apple iPhone Buying Guides Google Mobile It's no tall tale to say that the best Black Friday deals for the year are probably already here. Many retailers are getting in on the action with some great discounts. Now's the time to shop if there's something, heck, anything you're looking for. Like mobile or prepaid SIM deals, for example, as service providers all over are dropping their prices. If that's what you want to shop, keep reading, because we've gathered up all of the best prepaid SIM Black Friday deals in one place, right here.
Our favorite prepaid SIM Black Friday deal One of the best prepaid SIM Black Friday deals is from Boost Mobile. Right now, at Best Buy, you can get access to the three months and 5GB of data plan for just $15, normally $45, which saves you an incredible $30. Bear in mind, this is a pre-loaded SIM kit, which means you'll need to supply your own compatible phone or get one if you don't have one already.
Web Black Friday is a great time to splurge on expensive purchases you've been holding out on. TVs, appliances and phones are some of the most popular purchases during the shopping event. Samsung is a big player in all of these areas, and Samsung products are not known for being cheap. Thankfully some retailers have already started early Black Friday deals, and there are some great discounts available on Samsung products. We've collected the best Samsung deals we can find on TVs, tablets, phones, monitors, soundbars and appliances.
Samsung TV Black Friday deals Mobile If you're planning to buy from Black Friday tablet deals, one brand that you should definitely consider is Samsung. With the Samsung Galaxy Tab line ranging from affordable to premium, you'll definitely find a model that suits your needs, and with the discounts from Black Friday deals, you've got the chance to enjoy massive savings with your purchase. These tablets compete with the best iPad Black Friday deals. You're going to have to hurry though, because we're not sure how long stocks will last and when the offers will expire. To help you make a quick decision, we've highlighted our favorite bargain, as well as some of the top Samsung Black Friday deals on tablets that are still available right now.
Our favorite Samsung tablet Black Friday deal The specifications of the Samsung Galaxy Tab A8 is far from what you'll find in the best tablets, as it's only equipped with an octa-core Unisoc processor and 3GB of RAM. However, for most people who only want to buy a tablet for basic functions like browsing the internet, checking social media, and watching streaming content, this device will prove to be more than enough. The Android tablet's 10.5-inch touchscreen features 1920 x 1200 resolution, which makes it large and sharp for a budget device, and while internal storage is limited at 32GB, you can add more space for your photos and videos through an up to 1TB microSD card. Already affordable at its original price of $199, the Samsung Galaxy Tab A8 is currently even cheaper at $149 following a $50 discount from Walmart for Black Friday.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
