Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best phones for kids in 2023 By Jackie Dove Close Kids are people too, and often those little people are clamoring for the best smartphone tech money can buy, complete with the latest talk, text, games, apps, photos, and video conferencing features their parents are willing to buy for them. The good news is that you don't have to mortgage your home to purchase a decent smartphone for your kid. With their (sometimes) smaller hands and more limited needs — and the reality that kids tend to lose or destroy delicate things more frequently than adults — there are plenty of choices for powerful handsets that are ideal for kids.
Whether they're in the next room studying, yakking with or texting friends, walking the dog at the park, or gearing up to go back to school, their smartphone helps you to monitor their activities and keep them out of trouble. Double down on this by pairing their new phone with one of the best parental control apps or, for Android devices, Google's Family Link.
 Here are our top picks for the best phones for kids ranging in age from about elementary school to teen.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
More More More More More Andy Boxall/Digital Trends / Digital Trends Apple iPhone SE (2022) Compact and light Very powerful Touch ID works really well Wireless charging IP67 water resistance Poor battery life 60Hz screen 64GB won't be enough The iPhone SE (2022) is a small, neat phone with a tiny 4.7-inch Liquid Retina display and a 60Hz refresh rate. This may be old hat for adults, but it's perfect for your adolescent or teen. There's a lot going on with the new iPhone SE including Apple's latest A15 Bionic chip, 4GB of RAM, 64GB, 128GB, or 256GB of storage, decent battery life, and a single 12MP rear sensor and 7MP selfie camera. Add 5G connectivity, iOS 15, and several years of OS updates, and it's easy to see why the iPhone SE (2022) is a great smartphone investment for responsible children.
More Erika Rawes/Digital Trends Moto G Power (2022) Affordable Amazing battery life Accurate biometrics Decent amount of ROM Good camera system and software Water repellent No 5G connectivity Comes with Android 11 Plastic backing Slow responses at times When you're buying a smartphone for the discerning youngster in your family and don't want to scrimp on features, check out Motorola, an affordable smartphone brand. While many high-end features are absent and the body is plastic, the newest Moto G Power is ideal for everyday web browsing, emails, calls, and social media. This is for kids who prefer — and can handle — a larger phone. The Moto G Power has a huge 6.5-inch 90Hz display, 4GB of RAM, a MediaTek Helio G37 chip, 64GB or 128GB of storage, and a massive 5,000mAh battery that can last for days. That's in addition to a decent camera setup of 50MP main, 2MP macro, 2MP depth sensor, and 8MP selfie camera.
More Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Samsung Galaxy A53 5G Pretty design IP67 water-resistance Camera is great for social media Vibrant screen Two-day battery life Performance can be sluggish Not an upgrade to the A52 and A52S The Samsung Galaxy A53 5G, with a plastic exterior, sports a two-day battery life, a capable camera, a gorgeous AMOLED display, and a great looking design. The IP67 rating for water resistance means extra durability for whatever mischief your kid gets into. It's on the large side — so this is for a teen — and it's got many advanced features. You have the option of 6GB or 8GB of RAM, and 128GB or 256GB of storage — and there's a microSD card slot. The camera setup features a solid quad-lens on the back and a 64MP main lens, a 12MP wide-angle, and a pair of 5MP lenses for macro and depth. Up front, there's a 32MP selfie lens. The battery can manage two days of moderate use — without gaming.
Joe Maring/Digital Trends Google Pixel 6a Compact, lightweight design IP67 water resistance Flagship-grade performance Excellent cameras Clean software Years of guaranteed updates Display is only 60Hz Tensor chip runs hot Lacking battery life This is an excellent, up-to-date, stylish, moderately priced phone for young people who seek performance. Google's Tensor chip is the same silicon as in the company's flagship Pixel 6 and Pixel 6 Pro and it's great for gaming. Although 6GB of RAM is less memory than found in more expensive handsets, it works to keep apps open in the background for school kid multitasking. This is a one-day smartphone for most kids, who can easily charge it up at bedtime.
More Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Nokia G50 Long battery life Strong build quality Fuss-free, reliable software Guaranteed software updates 5G for the future 60Hz refresh rate screen Low-resolution screen Big and heavy The Nokia G50 is a very large phone with a massive 6.82-inch screen, a body that is nearly 9mm thick and 174mm tall, and weighs 220 grams. It’s not a rugged phone, but it's naturally tough and able to withstand the rough and tumble of school kid activities. The Snapdragon 480 chip is a decent performer for school work and games, with 4GB of RAM and 128GB of storage space, and a microSD card slot. Call quality is good, accompanied by a 5,000mAh battery offering two to three days without a recharge. The software, battery life, and build quality, decent-but-basic camera, and 5G make this a good choice for a young family member.
Julian Chokkattu/Digital Trends Motorola Moto E6 Affordable Clean Android software interface Decent screen Still no USB Type-C charging port, no NFC Price is too close to the better value Moto G7 Play Exclusive to Verizon for now Won’t get Android Q With a 5.5-inch HD display and an 18:9 aspect ratio, your kid gets a large, clear, responsive touchscreen. The phone features a Qualcomm Snapdragon Octa-Core processor running Android 9 and lets you add up to 256GB of photos, songs, and movies with a dedicated MicroSD card slot. The water repellent body keeps the Moto E6 protected from splashes and spills. A smart camera with Google Lens features text recognition while the built-in camera shoots 13MP photos. You can use your phone on any carrier.
More Julian Chokkattu/Digital Trends Nokia 3310 Colorful plastic exterior Bright screen at all angles Durable Inferior camera Who wants to play Snake? It’s likely that if your child is of a certain young age, they will readily take to Snake and several other games that the Nokia offers in its updated, retro-styled Nokia 3310. The updated version of the phone is plastic, comes in four friendly colors, and features a fresh custom interface with a 2.4-inch polarized, curved screen that’s clear and bright at all angles and even in sunlight. Light and compact, it will stand up to the rough and tumble of child play and keep on trucking with battery standby for up to a month.
Simon Hill/Digital Trends Moto G7 Play Very affordable Good performance Solid camera Great battery life No NFC Ugly notch For kids with bigger hands who are into sports or gaming, you can get a larger phone at a good price. The Moto G7 Play, a grown-up style phone for an older child or teen, features an advanced Qualcomm Snapdragon 632 processor and a 5.7-inch display with a 19:9 aspect ratio, 2GB of RAM, and 32GB of internal storage, up to 512 GB with a MicroSD card. Because it’s water-repellent, with a P2i nano-coating and scratch-resistant Corning Gorilla Glass 3, it can withstand considerable punishment while your kid gets a stable grip. It’s easily unlocked via the fingerprint sensor and facial recognition. It comes unlocked, but is compatible with AT&T, Sprint, T-Mobile, and Verizon. Amazon Alexa, Music, Audible, and Shopping come preinstalled.
More Editors' Recommendations Best iPad Black Friday deals: iPad Mini, iPad Air, iPad Pro, and more Google Pixel Black Friday deals: Pixel 8, Pixel Watch, Pixel Buds and more 14,000 Walmart shoppers love this kids tablet, and its $49 today Over 3,000 iPhone 15 cases discounted for early Black Friday — from $3 This tablet is $100 in Best Buy’s Black Friday sale, and it’s worth it Android Apple Android Apple Best Products Google Mobile There are a lot of reasons to be skeptical about having younger children around tablets. But, at the same time, nobody wants their young one left behind. The 2022 edition of the Amazon Fire 7 Kids is the perfect compromise. It is made 100% with kids' safety in mind and its safety from kids, both reasons it handily made our list of the best tablets for kids. The best part is that it is on sale now, at just $75. That's an intense $55 down from the usual $130. You'll even get a year of Amazon Kids+ for free. And, as its covered as part of Best Buy's extended holiday return period, you can buy it now for Christmas and not have to return it until January 30th. So, go ahead and tap below to find your Amazon Fire 7 Kids tablet, on sale. Then, keep reading to see why this kid-tough tablet is worth your dollars.
Why you should buy the Amazon Fire 7 Kids (2022 edition) The big forces of nature are those of creation and destruction. For a table that goes in our kids hands, we need to know what content the device is capable of creating and how durable it is to acts of destruction. Here, we'll argue for why the Amazon Fire 7 Kids works on both fronts.
Mobile There are a lot of options out there if you’re looking to get yourself one of the best tablets, but if you’re looking to grab some savings as well, you should check out the Samsung Galaxy Tab S8 Ultra. The popular tablet makes a great alternative to the Apple iPad Pro and it’s marked down to $950 at Best Buy right now. This is one of the best tablet deals you’ll find today, as the Galaxy Tab S8 Ultra regularly costs $1,100. This deal makes for a savings of $150, and free shipping is included.
Why you should buy the Samsung Galaxy Tab S8 Ultra When the Samsung Galaxy Tab S8 Ultra was first released we called it not only the king of Samsung’s tablet lineup, but also the king of tablets. And while the Samsung Galaxy Tab S9 Ultra is now the newest Galaxy Tab on the market, the S8 Ultra is still a more than worthy option. The screen comes in at 14.6 inches, which is one of the larger displays you’ll find in a tablet. It’s an immersive and responsive display that’s good for watching all of your favorite content, or for creating content of your own.
Mobile Smartwatches allow us to live like Dick Tracy by giving us notifications and tracking health and fitness. They also provide the ability to send and receive calls and messages, play music, set timers, perform various tasks via voice command, and so much more — all on our wrists. Smartwatches just keep getting better and better, but which are the best smartwatches? For most people, we think the Apple Watch Series 9 is the best smartwatch, but only if you own an iPhone. We know there are just as many Android phone fans out there, and since the Apple Watch only works with an iPhone, you'll want the Samsung Galaxy Watch 6.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
