Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best rugged smartphones for 2023 By Jackie Dove Close If you work outdoors or enjoy sports and hiking, you will need a smartphone that can live up to your energy level and climate requirements. A durable and rugged smartphone that can withstand more extreme conditions may be the answer to your lifestyle. Most modern phones are not built to be rugged but can withstand some exposure to dirt, dust, water, or extreme temperatures with a proper durable case. However, to really stand up to daily abuse, a rugged phone is your best bet. There are plenty of phones out there fitting that description. These phones are sturdy, reliable, and adapted to extreme conditions, thanks to features like waterproof designs and long-lasting batteries. We've selected some of the best rugged smartphones for your consideration.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
More Image used with permission by copyright holder Cat S62 Pro Rated at IP68 and Mil-Spec 810H Includes Flir thermal camera Tolerates a very wide temperature range Durability issues reported Cat's updated S62 Pro is all the rugged phone you could ever need. The phone's rugged features include an IP68 rating for water and dust resistance, Mil-Spec 810H drop ratings, the ability to survive in temperatures from -20 degrees to 400 degrees centigrade, and a high-grade aluminum body for extra protection. Despite all of this, it's fairly small in the hand, and the display is just 5.7 inches. That screen is an IPS LCD with a 1080 x 2160 pixel resolution. It's not likely to be the best display you've ever seen, but it will be more than satisfactory for a rugged phone and is covered in Corning Gorilla Glass 6 for extra security and peace of mind.
The S62 Pro is powered by a Qualcomm Snapdragon 660 Octo Core 2.0GHz processor with 128GB of storage and 6GB of RAM and runs Android 11, which isn't the latest version of Android ... and a bit of a disappointment. However, it has a microSD card slot with support for up to 256GB of extra storage, and it packs in a 4,000mAh battery. It also supports NFC, fingerprint ID, and Bluetooth 5.0.
The main camera is a Sony at 12-megapixel lens, coupled with a Flir thermal camera with thermal imaging capabilities, and the front cam is 8MP. This international version is compatible with GSM carriers like AT&T and T-Mobile as well as with GSM SIM cards (for Straight Talk and various prepaid carriers) but not CDMA carriers such as Verizon, Boost, or Virgin. A 9H Tempered Glass Screen protector is included in the package.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Samsung Galaxy XCover Pro MIL-STD-810G certified and IP68 rated Works while you're wearing gloves Replacable battery Networking issues reported We told you about the Samsung Galaxy XCover Pro when it debuted a couple of years back. It's still much the same as it was back then, i.e., it's still built like a tank, making it a great choice for a rugged phone.
The XCover Pro is MIL-STD-810G certified for drops up to 5 feet and IP68 rated for dust and water resistance. It's rugged but still elegantly designed, and the XCover Pro features a 6.3-inch edge-to-edge display with Corning Gorilla Glass 5 and two programmable buttons for functions like push-to-talk and scanning. It's made for the outdoors — whether work or play — and is compatible with Verizon's and AT&T's networks. For work, it lets you capture workplace comments, shoot high-resolution images, and use business applications, and you can keep your gloves on using the phone's enhanced touch and glove capability. Its replaceable, long-lasting, fast-charging battery keeps pace with your daily tasks, and you can quickly swap out the battery to keep going even longer.
Of course, there are going to be downsides. Networking issues have been reported, and the camera is, like most rugged phones, likely to not be great. But it will still hold up well if your primary motivation is finding a tough phone.
More Image used with permission by copyright holder Doogee S61 Rugged Phone IP68 and IP69K ratings Sony IMX350 20MP night vision camera Two-year warranty Connectivity issues reported with Straight Talk The Doogee S61 is a tough little smartphone made for harsh environments. It has IP68 and IP69K ratings for dust and water resistance, coupled with a military standard MIL-STD-810H drop rating. This pairing should mean it's protected against 6-foot drops onto the ground, and a full dunk into 4 feet of water for up to 30 minutes, not to mention repelling dust and sand.
A 5,180 mAh battery should give it all-day power for outdoor adventures or long work shifts. Doogee claims the battery will last up to 15 days on standby or two to three days on normal use, though we can't corroborate this. It's not the most powerful phone around, but the eight-core CPU and 6GB of RAM should be powerful enough for everyday tasks, and 64GB of storage will give you enough for basic apps and images. It's not going to be the phone for media lovers, though.
The waterproof exterior, coupled with a double AI camera (two 20MP lenses) and an 8MP front camera, lets you shoot high-resolution images in any climate or weather. One lens is a Sony IMX350 20MP night vision camera, giving you the ability to see, even in low light. The 6-inch screen is made of scratch-resistant Corning Gorilla Glass, offering great outdoor visibility. It ships with a two-year warranty, giving you even more peace of mind.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Unihertz Atom XL Tiny 4-inch screen is pocketable Removable antenna for walkie talkie use IP68 rating Touchscreen issues reported If you're on the T-Mobile/Verizon axis, the exceedingly durable UniHertz Atom XL may be the right fit for your active lifestyle. We've previously reviewed the Unihertz Atom , and its predecessor is every bit as good as a small, rugged phone. It has a rubberized grip around the top and bottom, accompanied by a grippy backplate and aluminum side rails, complete with exposed screw heads for style. The big draw here is the teensy 4-inch screen, which makes this a certified small phone but also one that's exceedingly rugged.
It has a 48MP camera, which may be best not to expect too much of, despite the high numbers. Rugged phones often have disappointing cameras, so try not to build up your expectations here. The Helio P60 processor isn't going to set the world on fire, but with 6GB of RAM, it should be handy enough to hold down everyday tasks easily enough. Storage starting at 128GB is also a welcome surprise, as that's a good amount of storage, and the 4,300mAh battery is generous for the size of the device. It ships with Android 11, but don't expect to see many, or any, updates after this.
Its most unique feature is a removable antenna that transforms your smartphone into a walkie-talkie, so you don't have to rely on a mobile connection. That's a strong feature for anyone who likes to adventure into the backcountry. With its IP68 rating, you can count on it being water-resistant and dustproof, and it supports fingerprint and face unlock, dual SIM cards, and NFC. This is a tiny titan that's a great choice if you want something small but rugged.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Blackview BV8800 Cell Phone Massive 8,380 mAh battery Supports reverse charging Four rear cameras Problems reported using Straight Talk When it comes to rugged, the Blackview BV8800 is nothing short of fully loaded. Its biggest draw is probably the massive 8,380mAh battery, which Blackview claims will provide 720 hours of standby time, 32 hours of calling, or 10 hours of gaming. It charges fast, too, thanks to support for 33W fast charging, which means it only takes 90 minutes for a complete recharge.
It has a 4G octa-core MediaTek G96 processor, 8GB RAM, and 128GB of storage. Don't expect the world from this configuration, but it should be good enough as long as you're not firing up the newest 3D games. It's powered by Android 11, which is outdated but should be sufficient to keep it running well.
The Blackview BV8800 features four rear cameras: a 50MP Super HD main camera, 20MP IR Night Vision Camera (with two IR LEDs) an 8MP 117-degree ultrawide camera, and a 2MP depth camera. Those are accompanied by a 16MP HD selfie camera cam, all of which can work on land or underwater. The Blackview BV8800 phone also has IP68 and IP69K ratings, so it's waterproof, dustproof, and shockproof, with a temperature range from -4 degrees to 131 degrees Fahrenheit. It tolerates drops of 6.5 feet and can resist water ingress up to 4.92 feet for up to an hour. If all of that wasn't enough, all Blackview cell phones are guaranteed for two years, so you have a great safety net even if something does go wrong.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Kyocera DuraSport Can survive drops up to 5 feet IP68 and MIL-STD-810H rated 5G support Expensive Kyocera is a venerable name in the cell phone arena, and its DuraSport is a brawny specimen engineered to withstand drops, dirt, water, and inclement weather. The MIL-STD-810H rating means it can survive drops up to 5 feet onto concrete, and it's a surprisingly lightweight 6.52 ounces (185g). It also has a IP68 rating, which makes it dust- and water-resistant, plus lets you clean and disinfect the phone with mild soap, disinfectant wipes, or 70% alcohol.
The phone's touchscreen stays operational, even with wet hands or gloves. It has a 5G, Kyocera claims the 4,500mAh battery offers a standby time of up to 336 hours, and it supports Qi wireless charging and USB-C with Quick Charge 4.0. The DuraSport 5G is loaded with camera, sport, and fitness features for athletes, adventurers, or travelers, and it includes a fingerprint scanner and face recognition.
You also get great recording options with the DuraSport's 48MP camera system, though it's best to temper your expectations where the quality is concerned. It works with a single 4FF nano SIM and has a microSDXC card slot, so you can expand the available storage with a microSD card.
Editors' Recommendations The best iPhone 15 case Black Friday deals you can buy now The 22 best Apple Watch faces you should be using The best health and fitness apps for iPhone in 2023: 18 best ones The best phones in 2023: our 15 favorite smartphones right now The best phone plans for one person in 2023: our 6 favorites Android Android Best Products Google Mobile Tablets may not be the hot new thing in 2023, but they're still excellent machines for streaming movies, playing games, or getting work done on the go. And while it seems like the best iPads dominate most of the tablet market, there are still plenty of excellent Android tablet options you should consider.
Whether you want an ultra-premium and superpowerful option, or something more affordable and compact, the Android tablet market has something for everyone. No matter your budget or spec preferences, here are the best Android tablets you can buy in 2023.
Mobile If you can no longer wait for Black Friday to buy a new smartphone, the good news is that you can already take advantage of some early Black Friday phone deals. We're not sure until when they'll remain available, and if their prices will change once the shopping holiday arrives, but if you're interested in any of the offers that we've highlighted below, it's highly recommended that you proceed with the purchase immediately.
Apple iPhone 15 -- $60 per month Mobile Finding a bad Android phone is a rare occurrence these days. However, with so many options available, it can be daunting to choose the best one in 2023. In this article, we aim to help you find the answer to this question.
When looking to buy a new Android phone, there are many factors to consider. Do you prefer a large screen? How important is camera performance to you? Are you someone who enjoys gaming on your phone? Or do you need a long-lasting battery life? To assist you, we have compiled a list of Android phones that cater to everyone's needs, regardless of your preferences or priorities.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
