Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Samsung Galaxy Z Flip 5: how to run any app on the cover screen By Christine Romero-Chan and Tushar Mehta Close Joe Maring / Digital Trends Samsung recently revealed a slew of new foldables, tablets, and wearables — including the next-generation Samsung Galaxy Z Flip 5 — at its Galaxy Unpacked July 2023 event in Seoul, South Korea.
You can run select apps on the Z Flip 5’s cover screen How to run any app on the Z Flip 5 cover screen How this compares to the Motorola Razr Plus The Galaxy Z Flip 5 is launching hot on the heels of the Motorola Razr Plus , which has been one of the best folding phones this year. A major perk of the Motorola Razr Plus is the fact that the large 3.6-inch cover screen acts like a regular display, complete with a home screen, quick settings, panels, and the ability to run any Android app.
So, can Samsung’s Galaxy Z Flip 5 run apps on its 3.4-inch cover screen too? Well, it’s a little complicated.
The best folding phones in 2023: the 6 best you can buy Best Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 5 deals: How to get the phone for free Best Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra deals: How to get the phone for free You can run select apps on the Z Flip 5’s cover screen Joe Maring / Digital Trends By default, the cover screen on the Galaxy Z Flip 5 will only show widgets, similar to how it works on the Galaxy Z Flip 4.
 The widgets include things like weather, calendar, notifications, and more.
But if you want to run apps, things get a little more involved. In order to get apps running on the cover screen, you need to enable that feature from the Labs section of the Settings app. To do this, you need to follow these steps: Open the Settings app.
Tap on Advanced Features.
Tap on Labs.
Tap the toggle next to Apps allowed on cover screen.
Joe Maring / Digital Trends Once you enable this setting in Labs, you’ll then get access to the “Apps widget” on the cover screen. This widget features a curated collection of apps that will work on the cover screen. These apps include YouTube, Netflix, Samsung Messages, Google Messages, Google Maps , and WhatsApp. From Labs, you can enable all of these apps or pick and choose which ones you want to show up.
As you can see, the apps widget for the Galaxy Z Flip 5 is a little … limited. It’s only a handful of apps, and when you compare it to the Motorola Razr Plus’ ability to run any Android app out of the box, it’s disappointing, to say the least.
How to run any app on the Z Flip 5 cover screen Tushar Mehta / Digital Trends While the method above only allows you to run a handful of apps on the Galaxy Z Flip 5’s cover screen, there is a way to run practically any app without having to flip the phone open. This method involves using an app called Good Lock, which offers plenty of extensions, called “modules,” to enhance the appearance and functionality of your Galaxy smartphones.
On the Galaxy Z Flip 5, Good Lock enables a separate widget called “cover screen launcher” that lets you deploy apps directly on the cover screen.
Tushar Mehta / Digital Trends Here are the steps you must follow to run any app or game on the Galaxy Z Flip 5’s cover display: Download Good Lock from the Samsung Galaxy Store.
 If your phone does not come with the Galaxy Store preinstalled, download the Good Lock installer and sideload it on your Galaxy Z Flip 5.
Open Good Lock and tap Life Up at the bottom. Scroll down on this page to find a module called MultiStar.
Tap the download icon next to the name, which will redirect you to the dedicated page on the Galaxy Store.
 Tap Download here to install the module. If you can’t find MultiStar inside Good Lock, download the installer file and install it on the phone.
Go back to Good Lock and open MultiStar from the top of the Life Up tab.
Inside MultiStar , tap the option that reads, “ I ♡ Galaxy Foldable ,” and then tap Launcher Widget.
Select the apps you want to use on the Galaxy Z Flip 5 cover screen.
Now, tap Enable Launcher Widget.
 This opens the list of widgets for the cover display. Scroll down on this list and enable the toggle next to Launcher.
These steps should enable the cover screen launcher. To use it, unlock the Galaxy Z Flip 5 when it is folded and swipe left on the screen to scroll to the Good Lock widget, where you will find all the select apps listed. Tap any icon to open and enjoy the app on the cover screen.
This is an official method offered by Samsungthat, understandably, requires you to jump through some hoops, which is probably why Samsung does not offer it as an inherent feature on the Galaxy Flip 5. The end result, however, is worth the effort you put in.
How this compares to the Motorola Razr Plus Joe Maring / Digital Trends Compared to the recently released Motorola Razr Plus, the Samsung Galaxy Z Flip 5 is a little disappointing when it comes to the cover screen functionality.
On the Razr Plus, you can launch any Android app you have installed — right out of the box. There are no extra steps involved, no workarounds; it just works.
Samsung, on the other hand, requires you to enable Labs, which are technically beta, experimental features. And even then, you only have six apps that work on the cover screen. If you download and install Good Lock, however, then you can open any app you choose.
The Starbucks app on the Z Flip 5 cover screen Joe Maring / Digital Trends With all these workarounds, it’s clear that the Galaxy Z Flip 5 can run any app on the cover screen. But it’s frustrating that Samsung puts this functionality behind an “experimental” feature that’s also super limited unless you download a custom launcher.
Motorola makes it easy to just get your apps running on the cover screen of the Razr Plus without any extra steps involved. So if that’s what you’re looking for, then you may want to consider the Razr Plus instead. But if you don’t mind doing some tweaking, it doesn’t take that long to run any app on the Galaxy Z Flip 5 — and the experience is pretty good once it’s configured and ready to go.
Editors' Recommendations The best Samsung Galaxy S23 Plus cases: 21 you can’t ignore Fixing your broken Samsung phone is about to get easier Best Samsung Galaxy Z Flip 5 deals: Get the foldable for free Best Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 4 deals: Save big on the foldable Best Samsung Galaxy S22 deals: Save big on unlocked models Samsung Samsung Galaxy Unpacked 2023 Mobile When it comes to camera phones, the Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra is the new champ. Although the competition was stiff, Samsung's latest offering emerged victorious in our head-to-head comparison with the Google Pixel 7 Pro, thanks to its exceptional software and edge in crucial categories. The Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra produces stunningly vibrant and shareable images, solidifying its status as one of the top camera phones available. Of course, if you're not partial to Samsung, there are other options to consider, such as the best Apple phone, the most cost-effective phone, and the best budget phone on the market.
At Digital Trends, we are passionate about photography and take thousands of photos every month. We enjoy comparing the performance of different phone cameras by pushing them to their limits and conducting direct camera shootout comparisons. We do this because we understand that camera quality is an important factor for most buyers. Have different priorities? We offer guides for the best overall smartphones, the best cheap smartphones, and the best old phones so you can find the right one for you.
Mobile Samsung is one of the most recognizable names in modern smartphones. It has a well-deserved reputation for offering an expansive lineup of great phones with something for just about everyone. This means if you're looking for an Android phone, you'll easily find a Samsung model that's worth considering based on your needs and budget. In fact, the number of choices can be a bit overwhelming, but the good news is that we've explored the entire range and highlighted the best Samsung smartphones you can buy in 2023.
Like its predecessor, the Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra gets the nod for the best overall Samsung phone, and that's not just because it's Samsung's premium flagship device. Sure, it's the most expensive phone in the lineup, but you're getting some incredible bang for your buck with its large and gorgeous display, excellent cameras, and a new processor that offers unprecedented levels of performance. And if you're looking for something more unique, more pocketable, or more affordable, you'll find a lot of other great options on our list in every category, with links to detailed reviews for each.
Mobile IF THE SAMSUNG Z FLIP 5 SURVIVES… I'll Switch.
Samsung’s new Galaxy Z Flip 5 foldable phone has been put through its paces in a particularly brutal durability test.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
