Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Share Wi-Fi Password on iPhone How to Restart iPhone Screen Record on iPhone Back Up an iPhone Clear Cache on iPhone Share Location on iPhone Home Mobile Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Does the iPhone 15 have USB-C? It’s complicated By Tushar Mehta Close Apple When Apple introduced the Lightning connector in 2012, Apple executive Phil Schiller called it “ the modern connector for the next decade.
” The decade has passed — and Schiller’s prophecy has been proven to be correct — bringing unimaginable (at that time) changes to the iPhone.
Does the iPhone 15 have USB-C? Does the iPhone 15 have fast charging? Is the iPhone 15 USB-C port Thunderbolt? Display casting with the iPhone 15 But even after continuous reports on plans to relinquish it, Apple has held onto the Lighting port. Does the legacy continue with the iPhone 15 , or will Apple switch to a more standard USB Type-C? You’ll find out in this article.
Does the iPhone 15 have USB-C? iPhone 15 with USB-C port.
Apple The iPhone 15 and the iPhone 15 Pro models are finally embracing the USB Type-C port, as confirmed during Apple’s September 2023 event.
 Even though several iPads and MacBooks have adopted USB-C as the standard port for charging and data exchange, this is the first time any iPhone uses a standard USB connector. Apple is continuing to work on a portless iPhone.
It’s finally happening — your iPhone is getting RCS in 2024 The iPhone’s futuristic satellite tech isn’t coming to Android any time soon These 5 iPhone 15 problems are annoying. Here’s how to fix them Initial iPhone models came with the 30-pin “dock” connector — for anchoring its previously famous iPod docking stations. While launching the iPhone 5 in 2012, Apple switched to the Lightning connector as a more compact and reliable means to charge the iPhone and sync data to a computer. Later, with the iPhone 7 , the lightning port also assumed the role of an audio connector in the absence of a 3.5mm headphone jack.
Joe Maring / Digital Trends Apple has long maintained that transitioning to USB-C would result in e-waste as users ditch their Lightning cables and other accessories, including wired earphones. However, an EU directive mandates that every smartphone , tablet, or headphones sold in the region must feature USB Type-C as the only charging port.
The directive goes into action starting in 2024, which means Apple has no time to challenge the directive and no option but to comply. Since using the USB Type-C port exclusively for the EU and sticking to the Lightning connector in other regions would increase the cost for Apple, it will revamp the connector for all areas.
Does the iPhone 15 have fast charging? USB-C port on iPhone 15 Pro Apple While USB-C is a standard port, there are different variations in speed based on the generation. The iPhone 15 and iPhone 15 Plus get the same treatment as the 2022 10-inch iPad and utilize a USB-C port based on USB Gen 2 specifications. This is surprising because USB 2.0 is an archaic technology that limits the data transfer speeds to only 480Mbps. Further, the iPhone 15 ’s charging speed can be expected to max out at roughly 30 watts , based on data from the 2022 iPad — although we will have to wait for more concrete results.
Meanwhile, the iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro Max models rely on USB Gen 3, with theoretical charging speeds of up to 100W and data transfer at 10Gbps. While Apple does not specify the exact generation, these specifications align with at least USB 3.1 Gen 2, also marked as “SuperSpeed USB 10Gbps.” However, the iPhone 15 Pro models have been rumored to only support charging at a maximum of 35W, which is only a marginal bump over the 27W charging on iPhone 14 Pro models. Meanwhile, the iPhone 15 could be limited to around 30W, which is once again only slightly higher than the iPhone 14’s 25W charging. Notably, you will need an Apple charging brick with 45W or faster charging to achieve those speeds.
Even worse, Apple will only supply an older USB 2.0 cable within the iPhone 15’s box , which will limit rates for both charging and data transfer and is in no way faster than the Lightning cable. To enjoy faster charging speeds, you will be required to buy a separate cable that supports the USB Gen 3 protocol. While that contradicts Apple’s stance on e-waste, this cable will likely be braided and, therefore, more durable than the one inside the box.
Is the iPhone 15 USB-C port Thunderbolt? Apple Unlike the MacBook and iPad Pro models, the iPhone 15 Pro does not appear to support Thunderbolt , a more advanced charging and data transfer protocol with speeds up to 40Gbps. The only glimpse of Thunderbolt we see is through an image (above) showing the iPhone 15 Pro connected to a Thunderbolt-certified cable (represented by the icon) — but that does not guarantee support.
If you need the cable to fast charge the iPhone 15 , Apple’s $29 USB-C to USB-C cable should suffice. However, if you are looking for a more durable cable that also supports fast charging your iPad Pro and MacBook, you will need to spend at least $69 on a cable with Thunderbolt 4 support.
Meanwhile, Apple is also expected to add new accessories and cables for the iPhone 15 under its Made For iPhone (MFi) program, which might feature some less expensive (but certainly not inexpensive) cables for faster charging.
Display casting with the iPhone 15 Apple While the iPhone 15 and the iPhone 15 Pro presumably lack Thunderbolt support, all models can project 4K video at 60Hz onto a much larger display, thanks to DisplayPort support. Apple recommends you buy a USB-C Digital AV Multiport Adapter for an additional $69. You may also use a generic USB-C to HDMI adapter, but it might be limited to a 30Hz output on the bigger screen.
Alternatively, you may choose a USB-C to DisplayPort cable if your TV or PC monitor features DisplayPort functionality. Meanwhile, if you want to connect your older Lightning cables or accessories with the Lightning connector, you can pay Apple $29 to get another hilariously overpriced dongle.
Editors' Recommendations It looks like the iPhone 16 will get a big design upgrade One of our favorite Android phones just got its own iMessage app iPhone update fixes troublesome bug that broke NFC features for some users The best iPhone 15 Pro Max cases in 2023: the 20 best ones Apple used this free iPhone app to shoot Monday’s Scary Fast event Apple Apple Events and Announcements Apple iPhone Mobile iPhone 15 Pro Max Andy Boxall / Digital Trends How do you flex the camera chops of your flagship phone? Use it to shoot the entire launch event for flagship laptops. Or that’s apparently what Apple thinks. The company’s Scary Fast event last night was shot on an iPhone 15 Pro Max, and it’s quite a solid statement to rest the fate of a product reveal that brings in billions of dollars for Apple each quarter.
Mobile "Fitness" can mean a lot of things. For some people, it's being able to run far, or run fast. For others, it's being able to lift heavy things and lower them back down again. Others may simply want to keep trim, or eat healthily. It may even mean getting a great night's sleep, or making sure your mental wellness is at its best. Whatever fitness means for you, we have a list of apps that cover all the possible bases. These apps excel in a number of different areas, but what they all generally have in common is that they use your iPhone's powerful tech to monitor and analyze your performance. As a result, they can help you progress along your fitness journey.
These apps are great at keeping you fit, but they're always best when paired with other tech, so make sure to check out our lists of the best fitness trackers and the best running headphones. Here are the best fitness apps for the iPhone in 2023.
Apple Fitness Mobile Apple released the iPhone 15 last month, with the new device offering two screen sizes of 6.1 inches and 6.7 inches.
The arrival of the latest iteration of the tech giant's popular handset saw the company banish from its online store the iPhone 13 Mini, which, as its name suggests, offers a smaller 5.4-inch display.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
