Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Google Pixel 7 Pro review: amazing camera, unreliable smartphone By Joe Maring Close $899.00 Bold, striking design Gorgeous 120Hz screen Face unlock works well Fast and powerful performance Top-tier camera system Pixel features are unmatched Poor fingerprint sensor Tensor G2 runs hot Mediocre battery life Endless software bugs Like a new release from Samsung or Apple, Google’s Pixel family has become an expected quantity during the second half of the year. Once the leaves start turning and the weather begins cooling, it’s a sure sign a new Pixel is on the way. This year, Google’s latest releases take the shape of the Pixel 7 and Pixel 7 Pro.
Google Pixel 7 Pro design Pixel 7 Pro screen Pixel 7 Pro face unlock and fingerprint sensor Pixel 7 Pro cameras Pixel 7 Pro software and features Pixel 7 Pro bugs Pixel 7 Pro performance Pixel 7 Pro battery life A second opinion on the Pixel 7 Pro Google Pixel 7 Pro price and availability The Pixel 7 Pro keeps what works, and what didn’t The Pixel 7 Pro, in particular, is where Google gets to really shine in the spotlight and show the world its vision for a flagship smartphone. In a lot of ways, the Pixel 7 Pro feels almost identical to its predecessor. It touts a bold design, incredible cameras, and software features that no other manufacturer can match. But the Pixel 7 Pro also retains many of the Pixel 6 Pro ‘s shortcomings — from lackluster battery life to rampant bugs. The Pixel 7 Pro proves that the Pixel 6 Pro’s foundation is still really strong a year later. But with many of the same issues creeping up yet again, it also has me worried that Google doesn’t know what else to build on top of that foundation.
For a look at the Pixel 7 Pro’s cheaper sibling, see our Google Pixel 7 review.
Google Pixel 7 Pro design Joe Maring/Digital Trends / Digital Trends Google introduced a bold new design language last year with the Pixel 6 family, ushering in two-tone colors and the now-iconic camera bar. It took the Pixel from mediocre to exciting, and it’s a gamble that paid off in spades. Thankfully, the Pixel 7 Pro keeps the same excellent footprint left by the Pixel 6 Pro — plus a few tweaks to make it better than ever.
The camera bar is still there on the back of the phone, though it’s now housed in a stainless steel casing instead of glass. I personally quite like the new look. The camera bar remains distinct and recognizable, and the pronounced cutouts for the individual sensors add more visual flair.
Joe Maring / Digital Trends I also really adore the Hazel color my Pixel 7 Pro review unit came in. The dark green glass back combined with the gold stainless steel frame creates one of the more unique-looking handsets I’ve seen all year. I do miss the subtle two-tone design offered on the Pixel 6 Pro — and I wish Google had more colors to choose from (your only other options are Obsidian and Snow, aka black and white) — but this is without a doubt a very handsome gadget.
The mmWave window is much smaller this year Joe Maring/Digital Trends Furthermore, I appreciate the stronger attention to detail on the Pixel 7 Pro. The Pixel 6 Pro shipped with a gaudy plastic strip on its top frame to support mmWave 5G.
 The Pixel 7 Pro still has a plastic mmWave cutout, but it’s much smaller and painted to blend in with the rest of the frame. Google also scaled back the intensity of the curved screen (more on that below), it doesn’t feel nearly as top-heavy, and the whole package is lighter/thinner — allowing for a much better in-hand feel.
The Pixel 7 Pro is one of the more unique-looking handsets I’ve seen all year.
But not every design decision is a great one. Google decided to lower the placement of the power button and volume rocker further down the side frame. It’s not a drastic change, but it does mean that Pixel 6 cases won’t work with the Pixel 7.
 More annoyingly, it means the volume-down button is just low enough that it often feels awkward to press without performing some slight hand gymnastics.
Pixel 7 Pro screen Joe Maring/Digital Trends Taking up the front of the Pixel 7 Pro is a 6.7-inch OLED display. It brings a 3120 x 1440 resolution, a 120Hz refresh rate, and peak brightness up to 1,500 nits (just shy of the 2,000 nits offered on the iPhone 14 Pro). It’s also covered in Corning Gorilla Glass Victus, ensuring it’s well-protected against cracks and scratches.
The display was one of my favorite qualities of the Pixel 6 Pro, and the Pixel 7 Pro is no different. With vivid colors, sharp text, and great viewing angles, this is a screen I’m happy to look at for playing games, watching movies, etc. The 120Hz refresh rate has also felt excellent during my use, making everything on the Pixel 7 Pro feel as smooth as can be.
All of this is made even better with the new shape of the Pixel 7 Pro’s screen. The Pixel 6 Pro’s display had very drastically curved edges, often resulting in accidental touches and making it nigh impossible to apply a screen protector.
The Pixel 7 Pro does still have curved edges around its screen , but they’re much less noticeable than before. I’d personally prefer Google to use an all-flat design as it does on the regular Pixel 7, but this is a good step forward.
Pixel 7 Pro face unlock and fingerprint sensor Joe Maring/Digital Trends Face unlock was long rumored to be available on the Pixel 6 Pro, but that was a dream which never came to fruition.
The Pixel 7 Pro finally brings face unlock back to Pixel phones, and while it’s good, it’s not how you remember it from the Pixel 4.
Face unlock on the Pixel 7 Pro works just like face unlock on a OnePlus or Samsung phone. It allows you to easily bypass the lock screen… but that’s it. If you want to access a locked app, approve a Google Pay purchase, or anything else, you’ll need to use the Pixel 7 Pro’s in-screen fingerprint sensor.
Joe Maring/Digital Trends The good news? Face unlock has worked really well for me. I press the power button to wake the screen, swipe up, and face unlock allows me to go right to my home screen. It’s fast and gets the job done.
The bad news? The fingerprint sensor doesn’t appear to have improved much at all. Sometimes, it registers my fingerprint just fine and works on the first try. But if it does work, it often takes a beat longer than I’d like it to. And when it doesn’t work, I often have to try a second or a third time before it properly scans my finger. It’s not a deal-breaker, but it’s also not particularly great.
Pixel 7 Pro cameras Joe Maring/Digital Trends It wouldn’t be a Google Pixel review without a discussion about the cameras, so let’s get right to it.
The Google Pixel 7 Pro is equipped with a 50MP main camera with an f/1.85 aperture and laser detect autofocus. The main camera is joined by a 12MP ultrawide camera with nearly a 126-degree field-of-view, plus a 48MP telephoto camera with 5x optical zoom and up to 30x with Google’s Super Res Zoom. You also get a 10.8 MP selfie camera on the front.
6.
Google Pixel 7 Pro 8.
Google Pixel 7 Pro 9.
Google Pixel 7 Pro 12.
Google Pixel 7 Pro Photos from the Pixel 7 Pro look incredible — just like they did on the Pixel 6 Pro. The Pixel 7 Pro produces beautiful colors in all sorts of lighting conditions, captures incredible detail, and makes getting stunning pictures so incredibly effortless. Just open the camera app, tap the shutter button, and Google’s top-tier image processing gives you a gorgeous image.
Photos from the Pixel 7 Pro look incredible.
If I had to find a bone to pick with the Pixel 7 Pro’s camera, it’s that images can sometimes look a little too saturated and Google’s HDR tends to be heavy-handed at times — preferring to take out shadows and really brighten a scene as much as possible. But these aren’t outright bad qualities at all. If you want a phone camera that can effortlessly produce fantastic, eye-catching pictures with ease, the Pixel 7 Pro does so without breaking a sweat.
But it’s not just the main camera that makes the Pixel 7 Pro such a powerful photography beast. Google upped its telephoto game in a big way this year, and it shows. The Pixel 7 Pro’s camera app now has two shortcuts for quickly jumping to 2x and 5x zoom — the former cropping in on the main sensor, with the latter shifting to the dedicated telephoto camera. You can also keep zooming up to 30x if you want — getting you very, very close to your subject.
Previous Next 1 5 Pixel 7 Pro with no zoom Joe Maring/Digital Trends Pixel 7 Pro 2x zoom Joe Maring/Digital Trends Pixel 7 Pro 5x zoom Joe Maring/Digital Trends Pixel 7 Pro 15x zoom Joe Maring/Digital Trends Pixel 7 Pro 30x zoom Joe Maring/Digital Trends How do those zoomed shots look? Surprisingly, really nice! I’ve been particularly impressed with the 5x zoom. It’s a much tighter shot than a non-zoomed photo, and you get that much closer to your subject while retaining an excellent amount of detail. Even shots at 15x look great, giving you a clean and crisp image that’s more than worthy of sharing on social media. Things start to look like a watercolor painting at 30x, but regardless, it’s nice having the sheer flexibility to do so — something the iPhone 14 Pro just doesn’t offer.
Previous Next 1 4 Pixel 7 Pro main camera Joe Maring/Digital Trends Google Pixel 7 Pro Joe Maring/Digital Trends Pixel 7 Pro main camera Joe Maring/Digital Trends Google Pixel 7 Pro Joe Maring/Digital Trends The ultrawide camera is also very good! It captures very similar colors to the main camera, and the extra field-of-view adds a lot of extra context for your shots. No complaints here at all.
Previous Next 1 4 Pixel 7 Pro macro mode Joe Maring/Digital Trends Joe Maring/Digital Trends Pixel 7 Pro Macro Focus photo Joe Maring/Digital Trends Pixel 7 Pro macro mode Joe Maring/Digital Trends But the ultrawide camera is really impressive with its new Macro Focus shooting mode. Similar to the iPhone 14 Pro, getting close enough to a subject automatically switches to the ultrawide camera for a macro image — and the results are great. From looking at individual grains of sand to getting up close with a flower, the Pixel 7 Pro does an incredible job here. So long as you can look past the distortion around the edges of these shots, they’re a ton of fun to capture.
Previous Next 1 3 Google Pixel 7 Pro Joe Maring/Digital Trends Joe Maring/Digital Trends Joe Maring/Digital Trends The selfie camera is the only area where the Pixel 7 Pro has disappointed me. It looks fine , but nothing about it is particularly noteworthy. The fixed focus means you often end up with soft details in spots, and there’s no opportunity for any natural bokeh. Coming from the iPhone 14 and its excellent selfie camera, the Pixel 7 Pro could have done a lot more here.
Pixel 7 Pro software and features Joe Maring/Digital Trends Android 13 is available on the Pixel 7 Pro out of the box and is backed by three years of major OS updates (plus five years of security updates). Given how similar Android 13 is to Android 12, the Android experience on the Pixel 7 Pro is virtually identical to what the Pixel 6 Pro looked like at launch.
Google’s Material You theme engine allows for excellent customization, Quick Settings buttons are bold and colorful, and the built-in Privacy Dashboard makes it easy to quickly see how different apps are using your phone’s various sensors. There are subtle tweaks to the things like the now playing widget and Google Search interface, but if you’ve used a Pixel in the last year or so, you’ll be right at home with the Pixel 7 Pro.
While Pixels are great for their “stock” Android interface, the real magic of a Pixel lies in the various AI features enabled by Google’s Tensor chip. All of these features that were present on the Pixel 6 Pro return to the Pixel 7 Pro. Want to remove unwanted people or objects from your photos? Magic Eraser lets you do so with just a couple of taps.
 Waiting on a phone call for a customer service agent to talk to you? Have the Google Assistant hold your spot in line for you. It’s these little, quality-of-life features that make the Google Pixel experience so magical — and arguably the best thing the Pixel series has going for it in 2022.
Joe Maring/Digital Trends In addition to all of last year’s Pixel goodies, the Pixel 7 Pro introduces a few new tricks too. One of the hallmark additions is Photo Unblur. If you open Google Photos, find any picture, and begin editing it, you’ll see a new “Unblur” button that retroactively removes blur and noise from your photos. Google’s examples of the feature make it look quite impressive, but in practice, it’s been fairly disappointing.
Previous Next 1 6 Without Photo Unblur Joe Maring/Digital Trends With Photo Unblur Joe Maring/Digital Trends Without Photo Unblur Joe Maring/Digital Trends With Photo Unblur Joe Maring/Digital Trends Without Photo Unblur Joe Maring/Digital Trends With Photo Unblur Joe Maring/Digital Trends For all of the pictures I’ve tried editing with Photo Unblur (older family photos, like how Google marketed the feature), the results are either barely noticeable or horribly artificial-looking — adding an unpleasant amount of sharpening, and even distorting faces in some images. That’s not to say Photo Unblur can’t be helpful for photos, but at least in my experience, it’s left a lot to be desired. Google has also teased Clear Calling as a way to improve hard-to-hear phone calls, plus the Recorder app will be able to record a conversation with multiple people and separate each speaker. However, these features aren’t coming until later this year.
Pixel 7 Pro bugs I can’t tell you how many times I’ve seen this … Joe Maring/Digital Trends Yes — a dedicated section just to talk bout bugs. I didn’t anticipate doing this when I started testing the Pixel 7 Pro, but after using the phone, it really left me no choice.
Simply put, the Google Pixel 7 Pro is one of the buggiest and glitchiest smartphones I’ve used in a while. Bugs constantly repeat themselves, new ones regularly pop up, and they’ve legitimately impacted how I can use the 7 Pro as my daily smartphone. Here’s a quick rundown of what I’ve had to deal with: While playing a game, swiping up to go home zooms in on the game and requires multiple swipes to actually go home.
Opening a game sometimes shows nothing but a black screen.
Going back to the home screen from a full-screen app or game regularly messes up the formatting for the Quick Settings panel (this has happened 10+ times and requires restarting the 7 Pro to fix).
YouTube videos occasionally play the video with no audio, or audio with a black screen.
A bizarre shadow appeared over my home screen and app drawer after leaving Twitter, and wouldn’t go away until I restarted the phone.
My daily routine with the Pixel 7 Pro has seen me restarting it at least two to three times per day just to clear out these bugs. I’ve spoken with colleagues who haven’t experienced these problems on their review units, but buggy software isn’t anything new for Google. The Pixel 6 and 6 Pro ran perfectly fine for some people, while others saw their phones plagued with relentless software issues.
The Google Pixel 7 Pro is one of the buggiest and glitchiest smartphones I’ve used in a while.
Could these problems be fixed in the future with software updates? Probably! But last year proved that Google has a problem with buggy software, and a year later, it seems like that hasn’t changed with the Pixel 7 Pro.
Pixel 7 Pro performance Google Under the hood of the Pixel 7 Pro is Tensor G2 — the second generation of Google’s in-house chipset. Google claims that Tensor G2 is 60% faster than the first Tensor chip inside the Pixel 6 Pro, in addition to being 20% more power efficient.
In day-to-day use, I’m not sure I really notice any significant speed difference with the Pixel 7 Pro compared to the Pixel 6 Pro. But that’s not a bad thing. The Pixel 6 Pro always felt fast and responsive to me, and the Pixel 7 Pro is no different in that regard. Tap on an app, and it opens instantly for you to use. Scroll through a website or Instagram, and it movies with near-perfect fluidity. Even games like Call of Duty: Mobile — with graphics set to very high and frame rate set to max — run beautifully.
But whether you’re juggling a few different apps or playing your favorite mobile game, it doesn’t take long for all of that power inside Tensor G2 to heat up.
Like other Tensor-powered phones before it , the Pixel 7 Pro runs hot.
 Play a game like CoD: Mobile for just 20 minutes, and the Pixel 7 Pro becomes noticeably warm to the touch. Play for 30 minutes, and it’s almost alarmingly warm. The Pixel 7 Pro is cool as a cucumber when it’s sitting idle or running a single app. Ask more of the phone, though, and don’t be surprised when it turns into a hand warmer.
Pixel 7 Pro battery life Joe Maring/Digital Trends Battery life was one of the bigger pain points on the Pixel 6 and 6 Pro. The phones just didn’t last very long, creating battery anxiety even with moderate use.
 Does the Pixel 7 Pro make things better? Based on my time with the phone so far, not exactly. My first full day with the Pixel 7 Pro began at 9:00 am and ended at 11:11 pm. Following just 3 hours and 38 minutes of screen time — including 45 minutes of Call of Duty: Mobile , 30 minutes of streaming YouTube, and regular use of Twitter, Duolingo, Telegram, etc. — I was down to 11%.
A couple of days later, I had a similar day beginning at 9:00 am and ending at 11:00 pm. After streaming Twitch for over an hour, watching YouTube for 50 minutes, and about 20 minutes of gaming, I clocked in 3 hours and 33 minutes of screen time with 37% battery still left. It should be noted that this day was spent almost entirely on Wi-Fi, while the previous day saw the Pixel 7 Pro on a 5G connection for a large portion of the day.
I’ve noticed that the Pixel 7 Pro’s battery drain on standby is actually quite good. But the minute you start using multiple apps, playing games, or anything else that calls upon Tensor G2 to actually work , endurance quickly dwindles. Is this horrible battery life? No. But it’s not particularly good, either. The Pixel 7 Pro is very much proving to be a one-day smartphone at best, and for a device with a 6.7-inch screen and 5,000mAh battery, that’s really disappointing.
A second opinion on the Pixel 7 Pro There’s a risk involved in buying the Pixel 7 Pro. Digital Trends’ Senior Mobile Writer Andy Boxall has also been testing the Pixel 7 Pro, and he’s had a very different experience with it. His phone has been reliable, fast, and provided great battery life — in some cases extending to two days with fairly hard use. He has enjoyed using the phone so much, he was reluctant to remove the SIM to review a different device, and wrote about why.
Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Similarly, Andy had a great time with the standard Pixel 7 when he reviewed it, noting that despite a few bugs and occasionally problematic gaming performance, the phone had even better battery life, a great camera, and a very tempting price. It was enough to ensure a Recommended Product award and a 7/10 score. It’s not a perfect phone, but it’s far better in terms of reliability than the Pixel 7 Pro reviewed here.
Digital Trends Mobile Staff Writer Christine Romero-Chan has also been using, and loving, a standard Pixel 7.
 She called it Google’s iPhone in her story on why it’s her favorite Android phone she’s used so far. Her opinion would have likely been very different if the Pixel 7 had behaved like our review Pixel 7 Pro.
We’re not alone in having Pixel 7 phones that are either great or unreliable. Search online, and there are many similar stories with polar-opposite experiences. This makes it a risky purchase, because when it works well. the Pixel 7 Pro is a real winner, but it unfortunately seems you aren’t absolutely guaranteed to get a winning phone.
Google Pixel 7 Pro price and availability The Google Pixel 7 Pro is available to buy right now. It starts at $899 for the base model with 128GB of storage. Additionally, you can get the 256GB or 512GB model for $999 or $1,099, respectively.
In the U.S., the Pixel 7 Pro is available from the Google Store, Amazon, Best Buy, AT&T, T-Mobile, and Verizon.
The Pixel 7 Pro keeps what works, and what didn’t Joe Maring/Digital Trends The Pixel 7 Pro has proven to be a very frustrating smartphone. There’s so much I really love about it. The design is better than ever, the display looks fantastic, the cameras are outstanding, and Google’s smart software features make the Pixel truly stand out from everything else on the market.
But to get those things, you need to be OK with mediocre battery life, a phone that warms up very easily, a bad fingerprint sensor, and potentially an onslaught of bugs. It becomes a difficult recommendation for a phone that starts at $899. And that’s even more true when you consider the Pixel 7 Pro’s competitors. If you want the latest and greatest Pixel experience, the $599 Pixel 7 is arguably a much better purchase — so long as you can live without the telephoto camera and 120Hz screen. You can save even more cash and get a similarly great handset with the Pixel 6a.
 And if it’s a big smartphone with a robust camera system you’re after, I’m inclined to first recommend the Galaxy S22 Ultra or iPhone 14 Pro Max.
I don’t think the Pixel 7 Pro is a failure or an outright terrible smartphone. It keeps all of the things that made the Pixel 6 Pro so excellent, and they shine just as bright here. But Google had clear problems that needed to be addressed — from poor thermals, disappointing battery life, and unreliable software. As far as I can tell, none of those things were addressed the way they needed to be. There is a foundation for a great smartphone with the Pixel 7 Pro, but until Google can get all of the rubble off of it, it’s not one I’m going to rush out and recommend.
Editors' Recommendations Google is finally fixing an annoying issue with its Pixel phones The Google Pixel 8 just got its first update. Here’s what’s new There might be something wrong with the Google Pixel Watch 2 Google Pixel 8a: news, rumored price, release date, and more The best Android phones in 2023: the 16 best ones you can buy Android Google Google Pixel Phone Reviews Product Reviews Wearable Reviews Mobile One of the most surprising additions to Google’s Pixel hardware in recent years is temperature sensing. The Google Pixel 8 Pro comes armed with a temperature sensor that can measure the temperature of objects simply by “scanning” them from an optimum distance within the five-centimeter range. Google says the sensor is good for “beverages, cooking pan, water temperature, and more.” The smartphone community, however, is seemingly hell-bent on relegating it to gimmick status. But average Pixel 8 Pro owners are finding cool ways to use it. As detailed in this Reddit post, one Pixel 8 Pro user was stuck in a stormy situation that took out the power supply for 36 hours, putting them in a quandary regarding the status of food items kept in an out-of-power refrigerator.
Mobile Two of the brightest smartphone displays on the market are featured on the Google Pixel 8 Pro and the OnePlus Open. However, in the ever-changing world of technology, there is always something better on the horizon.
On Tuesday, October 24, Chinese-based OnePlus and its parent company, Oppo, will announce "a new dawn" for smartphone screens. According to messages posted on Weibo by OnePlus and Digital Chat Station, the announcement is that BOE will manufacture a 3,000-nit panel for smartphones, which could be a game changer for the smartphone market. The soon-to-be-revealed display will offer 1440p resolution and support 2160Hz pulse width modulation (PWM) dimming.
Mobile Google’s new Pixel phones started shipping last week but there are already concerns over an apparent issue with the display on the Pro version of the new device.
According to various reports, some owners of the Pixel 8 Pro are seeing a yellow or pink tint on parts of the screen -- usually near the top or sides -- which apparently only shows up only when the device’s Always On Display is activated.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
