Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Features Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The Google Pixel 8’s AI photo features are amazing — and a little scary By Andy Boxall Close Google When you get the Google Pixel 8 or Google Pixel 8 Pro in your hands, it’s going to be tempting to dive right in and change the photos you take with it using the spectacular new AI tools that come with it.
An amazing AI photo toolkit Don’t chase perfection Am I saying don’t use them at all? These features are insane, as it will suddenly be possible to create your “perfect” photo after the fact, and with almost no effort outside of tapping on the screen. It’s an exciting new world, but it’s one that needs to be approached — and enjoyed —with a great deal of caution.
An amazing AI photo toolkit Google You may already know about Google’s Magic Eraser tool , which uses AI to quickly and easily remove unwanted distractions from your photos. Suddenly your beach shots are cleared of people, ugly objects can be removed, and photo bombers zapped into oblivion — all with a couple of taps. It’s surprisingly powerful and, provided the scene isn’t very complex, very effective too. It’s available now in Google Photos on Pixel phones and on many other smartphones too.
But it’s about to be joined by two other tools because the Pixel 8 series will introduce Magic Editor and Best Shot, which go far beyond the innocent simplicity of Magic Eraser. Magic Editor uses generative AI to “reimagine your photos,” according to Google, where you can reframe the scene, resize subjects, recast the lighting, change the weather conditions, and even add something that previously did not exist into the image. It can be used to create a truly different photo from the one you took.
Google Magic Editor Google Magic Editor was revealed during Google I/O 2023 and will make its debut on the Pixel 8 phones, where it’s joined by another new feature called Best Take. This takes a series of photos, something like a burst mode, but with a bias towards faces, and subsequently allows you to create a single “best shot” using the results. The idea is perhaps not everyone will be smiling or looking at the camera at the same time in the same photo, but Best Take will let you use all the different images taken to face-swap everyone and artificially create your ideal scene that never was. It’s incredible but also scary.
Don’t chase perfection Magic Eraser in use Andy Boxall / Digital Trends This is a genuinely impressive roster of AI tools, and if Magic Eraser is anything to go by, Magic Editor and Best Take are likely to work really well in the right situation. However, before you get too excited, think about the cumulative effect these tools will have on your pictures. You could remove distractions, artificially add more of what you did want into the shot, ensure everyone is smiling and looking at the camera, and make sure the lighting is coming from the ideal place.
What you will have done is make a photo rather than take a photo, and this is why I’m going to recommend caution, as it will be very easy to get carried away. Subtly changing photos to enhance the scene is very different from creating a new scene that didn’t actually exist, and by doing so, you run the risk of destroying imperfection. Weird as it may sound, this is a bad thing. Today we’re conditioned by social networks to see and appreciate carefully curated, implausibly perfect scenes and to consider them something to strive towards. But it shouldn’t always be this way.
Magic Eraser used to get rid of people in the background, but some digital artifacts remain Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends When I look back at photos of friends and family, some of my favorites and most treasured are the ones that are not perfect. A funny expression here, an odd glance there, or an inopportune sneeze when the shutter opens and closes are the photos that get shared and loved. The ones where we’re all doing what we should are passed by without much emotion or engagement. This lovely National Geographic article by Heather Greenwood Davis explains far better than I ever could why embracing the “worst” photos matters.
Supposed imperfection works elsewhere too. People, whether you know who they are or not, can sometimes add to a photograph. They can give it depth, movement, and life. Without them, your photo may become a colder, less emotional, rather flat scene. Lighting in the real world can be used to great creative effect and will always look better than artificial lighting added by AI afterward, and the trained eye will always tell the photo has been altered too.
Am I saying don’t use them at all? Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Digitally changing our photos has been possible for decades, but the best uses are the most subtle, and learning to use them carefully and with restraint is crucial. The photos you consider “bad” today may end up being the ones you love the most in the future, and changing them to make them perfect by today’s Instagram-driven standards may rob you of something special. You only need to look at people’s reinvigorated appreciation for music on vinyl over CDs or a digital file for evidence of how attitudes change regarding perfection over time.
Am I saying don’t use Magic Editor, Best Take, or even Magic Eraser ever ? Absolutely not. But I am saying to use them sensibly and with caution. Go slowly with the changes, not mad. Don’t replace photos, experiment and make duplicates instead. Don’t delete the original, keep it and look back on it later on, as your opinion about it may change. We’re spoiled by having the chance to take dozens, if not hundreds, of photos and not worry about storage or changing film, so use this and Google’s AI tools to your advantage.
Google’s new AI tools go far beyond adding a filter or boosting the saturation in a photo, they have the power to make an almost entirely new picture that you and your camera didn’t actually take. This is an incredible achievement, especially as it’s possible on the phone in your pocket and not a $10,000 desktop computer operated by a professional in a studio. But care is needed before diving in.
In art, the Japanese philosophy of wabi-sabi teaches us to embrace and appreciate the beauty found in imperfection, and it’ll be worth remembering this before you go crazy with Google’s new photo AI.
[pixel-8-pre-order] [pixel-8-pro-pre-order] Editors' Recommendations I’ve had the Google Pixel 8 Pro for a month. Here’s why I’m keeping it Google’s Pixel phones are in trouble I tested the Pixel 8 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro. This one has the best camera Google Pixel 8a: news, rumored price, release date, and more I just spent $100 on Google Photos for a ridiculous reason Android Features Google Google Pixel Mobile One of the most surprising additions to Google’s Pixel hardware in recent years is temperature sensing. The Google Pixel 8 Pro comes armed with a temperature sensor that can measure the temperature of objects simply by “scanning” them from an optimum distance within the five-centimeter range. Google says the sensor is good for “beverages, cooking pan, water temperature, and more.” The smartphone community, however, is seemingly hell-bent on relegating it to gimmick status. But average Pixel 8 Pro owners are finding cool ways to use it. As detailed in this Reddit post, one Pixel 8 Pro user was stuck in a stormy situation that took out the power supply for 36 hours, putting them in a quandary regarding the status of food items kept in an out-of-power refrigerator.
Mobile I have a not-so-surprising confession: I tend to want every new phone that comes out. I'm a sucker for good marketing, and smartphone launches have some of the best marketing around. Whether it's a new feature like a telephoto lens, a bigger battery, a more vivid display, or a radically new form factor, I get a bad case of fear of missing out almost every time. It's why I often find myself buying the most expensive model, despite not really needing to.
So, I was slightly confused when the recent launch of the Google Pixel 8 Pro didn't leave me feeling like I wanted the phone at all. Or rather, I did, but the desire was undercut by another emotion: annoyance. I'm mad at the Pixel 8 Pro, but it's not for the reasons you might think.
Mobile Google released the next generation of Pixel devices recently, including the Google Pixel 8 and Google Pixel 8 Pro. These have been the best Pixel smartphones in a while, as they pack the improved Tensor G3 chip inside, better cameras, brighter displays, and more — all in a slightly updated design. I've been using the phones for a couple of weeks now, and I really like what Google's done with them.
But Google also added some more photo editing capabilities to the Pixel 8 lineup, with a heavy reliance on AI with the Tensor G3 chip. While these AI-heavy editing tools can help you chase perfection, they shouldn’t be relied on too heavily or abused.
The Pixel 8's AI tools are impressive ...
Magic Editor on the Google Pixel 8 Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
