Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Features Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Is the Google Pixel 8’s Tensor G3 chip any good? We found out By Tushar Mehta Close Joe Maring / Digital Trends Google launched the Pixel 8 series earlier this month with notable design improvements over the last generation, including a brighter display, faster charging, and more. One of the most exciting changes on the Google Pixel 8 and the Google Pixel 8 Pro is Google’s new custom Tensor G3 chipset that delivers spectacular AI experiences right on the device.
Tensor G3 vs. Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 vs. Apple A17 Pro How the Tensor G3 chip was made Google’s Tensor G3 has an odd CPU design Testing the Pixel 8’s gaming performance Neural processor and AI features How the Tensor G3 handles image processing Tensor G3 overheating problems Is the Tensor G3 a good chip for the Pixel 8? Despite advancements in on-device AI processing, Google’s Tensor chips have traditionally been reported to lag behind other flagship chipsets when it comes to performance. This year, the chipset receives substantial microlevel upgrades that bring it closer to the competition, at least on paper.
So, does the Tensor G3 stand a chance against stalwarts like the Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 and Apple A17 Pro ? That’s what we are looking at in this comparison.
Tensor G3 vs. Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 vs. Apple A17 Pro Google We’ll dig into the finer details of Tensor G3 in just a minute, but first, here’s the full spec sheet for the Tensor G3, Snapdragon 8 Gen 2, and A17 Pro chips.
Specs and raw numbers don’t always tell the whole story, but just so you have some context, this is what we’re working with: Google Tensor G3 Qualcomm Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 Apple A17 Pro CPU Samsung 4nm fabrication Nine-core CPU 1 x Cortex-X3 @ 2.91GHz 4 x Cotex-A715 @ 2.37GHz 4 x Cortex-A510 @ 1.70GHZ TSMC 4nm fabrication Eight-core CPU 1 x Cortex-X3 @ 3.2GHz 2 x Cotex-A715 @ 2.8GHz 2 x Cotex-A710 @ 2.8GHz 2 x Cortex-A510 @ 2.0GHZ TSMC 3nm fabrication Six-core CPU 2 x high-performance cores @ 3.78GHz 4 x efficiency cores @ 2.11GHz GPU 7-core Immortalis-G715 8-core Adreno 740 6-core “Pro-Class” GPU Neural processor Custom Google TPU Qualcomm Hexagon AI Engine 16-core Neural Engine How the Tensor G3 chip was made Google Google’s Tensor G3 chip is based on Samsung’s 4-nanometer (4nm) fabrication process, marking an upgrade over the Tensor G2, which is fabricated on Samsung’s 5nm process.
 The dimensions in nanometers do not indicate the size of the chipset itself, but have traditionally been used to denote the minimum gate length for transistors — or tiny electronic switches — that make up the entire circuitry. Smaller transistors can be packed more densely on the same surface area, allowing more power and better flow of electrical signals through the board.
However, with advancements in computing technology, the nanometer variable has lost its definition and is used differently by different chip manufacturers — simply reducing it to marketing jargon.
 Without stressing how manufacturers determined this number, here’s a simpler explanation of how it matters: a smaller value indicates better power efficiency so long as the same or a similar process makes the chip. Therefore, it’s safe to say that Samsung’s 4nm node is better than its 5nm from last year.
Andrew Martonik / Digital Trends Besides being upgraded to a more power-efficient design, the Tensor G3 also conquers issues that marred the performance of the Tensor G2 and other chips manufactured on Samsung’s 5nm process last year. In 2022, Samsung reportedly suffered a poor yield per silicon wafers used. This impacted the performance of the Exynos 2200 — which powers the Samsung Galaxy S22 series in the U.K. and Europe — alongside the Snapdragon 8 Gen 1, which is also manufactured by Samsung. As a result of poor yield, these chips turned out to be more power-hungry.
Samsung’s poor yield for the 5nm node resulted in Qualcomm switching over to Taiwan’s TSMC — Samsung’s biggest competitor that also manufactures Apple’s A and M series chips — for the Snapdragon 8+ Gen 1.
 By migrating to TSMC, Qualcomm achieved better power efficiency and boosted CPU and GPU performance on the Snapdragon 8+ Gen 1 and the Snapdragon 8 Gen 2. Google, despite these complaints, stuck with Samsung.
In 2023, Samsung reportedly ironed out those issues and reached higher yields. While Qualcomm is sticking to TSMC for the Snapdragon 8 Gen 3, improvements to Samsung’s yields mean significant improvements over the chipsets from last year. To our surprise, however, Samsung decided to cancel its own Exynos 2300 this year for unknown reasons, but uses a similar architecture for the Tensor G3’s microarchitecture.
Google’s Tensor G3 has an odd CPU design Google The Google Tensor G3 gets an unusual nine-core CPU. While most Android phone chipsets still rely on an eight-core design, Tensor G3 is an exception and has a nona-core CPU configuration. Like previous Tensor chips for Pixel devices, the G3 is expectedly based on a Samsung Exynos counterpart, albeit with custom additions over the top for better AI applications, improved image processing, and better security. It shares its core architecture with the canceled Exynos 2300.
The nine CPU cores are split across a 1+4+4 configuration. Like most other chipmaking companies, Samsung also licenses IP from Arm, which provides the basic designs for other companies to customize or configure for optimal performance. Google’s Tensor G3, as a result, carries the same attributes forward.
The Tensor G3’s nine-core CPU comprises an Arm Cortex X3 “big” core clocked at 2.91GHz for prime performance and power-hungry tasks such as heavy games — the same that we’re seeing on other flagship Android chipsets for this year, i.e., the Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 and MediaTek Dimensity 9200.
Next, there are four Cortex-A715 “middle” cores clocked at 2.37GHz for a balance between performance and power efficiency. In comparison, the Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 uses two Cortex A715 cores and two A710 cores for the middle section. Although the A715 and A710 are nearly identical, the former is claimed to offer a 20% improvement in power efficiency. This means the Tensor G3 can be expected to produce less heat in middling tasks such as launching and running apps.
Joe Maring / Digital Trends The “little,” or efficiency-focused section of the CPU, is identical to other comparable chipsets. Tensor G3 uses four Cortex-A510s, each clocked at 1.7GHz. This is an upgrade over the Tensor G2, which uses dated Cortex A55 efficiency cores. Having a lower frequency than the Snapdragon 8 Gen 2’s efficiency block, these cores will produce less heat, but might offload some of the more demanding tasks, such as keeping the always-on display running, basic phone functions, powering sensors, etc., onto the middle cores if the need arises.
Despite the advanced CPU configuration, the Tensor G3 still appears late to the party. Arm has already announced the more powerful Cortex X4, A720, and A520 cores. The Snapdragon 8 Gen 3, expected to launch later this month , is still rumored to retain an eight-core design, but with newer Arm cores.
These upgrades do not necessarily translate to massive improvements in daily output despite claims by chipmakers. To test the real-world implications of these improvements, we ran Geekbench 6 synthetic benchmarks on the Google Pixel 8 Pro, iPhone 15 Pro , and OnePlus 11 running on Snapdragon 8 Gen 2. We could have also included the Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra , but it runs a custom, overclocked version of Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 for Galaxy devices, and the results may not align with other phones with the chipset.
Here are the results: Joe Maring and Tushar Mehta / Digital Trends The Pixel 8 Pro and the OnePlus 11 have comparable performance owing to having the same primary core. The multi-core scores vary, which is understandable because of the lower clock speeds on the Tensor G3. It is, however, surprising that the extra core does not offer a competitive advantage.
The iPhone 15 Pro gets a massive advantage over both the Tensor and the Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 due to a much higher frequency on the primary core, as well as having two of those instead of just one, Apple’s customizations to Arm’s design, and overall improvements due to the 3nm design.
Testing the Pixel 8’s gaming performance Joe Maring / Digital Trends The Tensor G3 inside the Pixel 8 and Pixel 8 Pro gets Arm’s Mali-G715 “Immortalis” GPU, with performance comparable to the Adreno 740 GPU on the Snapdragon 8 Gen 2. Despite leaks , the Tensor G3 only uses a seven-core GPU, with subtle improvements over the Tensor G2’s seven-core graphics unit.
Notably, MediaTek’s Dimensity 9200 uses the same GPU, but with 10 cores enabled. Theoretically, the GPU can support up to 16 cores, but Google’s decision to limit the number to seven suggests an attempt to keep the heat generation in check.
Gaming has never been the Pixel’s strong suit, and Google has omitted any mentions of ray tracing on the Pixel 8 Pro despite having the hardware to support it. Ray tracing is a feature that enables realistic lights and reflections, primarily in games, for more appealing visuals. While Android flagships have featured ray tracing support since at least 2021, Apple added to the momentum by announcing hardware-based ray tracing on the iPhone 15 Pro using the A17 Pro chipset.
The Tensor G3’s Immortalis-G715 GPU offers a 15% performance boost over the previous year’s Mali-G710, as per Arm.
 This does not change the fact that the GPU was first introduced in 2022; the newer Immortalis-G720 offers yet another 15% upgrade over it alongside reduced load on the CPU and better power efficiency. With the Snapdragon 8 Gen 3, the competition will be more challenging for this GPU.
Of course, actual performance may vary from marketing claims, so we ran 3DMark’s Wildlife Extreme synthetic benchmark on the Pixel 8 Pro and compared those results to the iPhone 15 Pro and OnePlus 11. Here’s what we found: Joe Maring and Tushar Mehta / Digital Trends Interestingly, the Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 on the OnePlus 11 overpowers the iPhone 15 Pro’s GPU. The Tensor G3 in the Pixel 8 Pro, on the other hand, lags both by a long margin, suggesting poorer graphics processing capabilities.
Neural processor and AI features Joe Maring / Digital Trends Experiences associated with AI have been at the center of Google’s narrative behind the shift to a custom silicon over two years ago. This not only continues with the Pixel 8 series, but also takes a massive leap over previous generations as the buzz around generative AI grows more intense.
The Pixel 8 and the Pixel 8 Pro get a massive boost for AI camera features , with features such as Best Take and Magic Editor fantastically transforming images. Besides the Camera app, Google Assistant receives major upskilling in human-like communications with the integration of Google’s Bard chatbot.
These experiences are powered by Google’s new Tensor Processing Unit (TPU), a marketing name for the company’s neural processors dedicated to accelerating AI-related tasks. The name is derived from eponymous processors used in Google’s servers designed specifically for machine learning-related tasks. It is also one of the components that Google is designing itself instead of piggybacking on Samsung’s Exynos.
The Google Assistant’s Summarize feature Joe Maring / Digital Trends According to Google, the new TPU runs twice as many machine learning models as the first-gen Tensor that drove the Pixel 6 and 6 Pro. One of the key talking points for Google’s Tensor chipsets has been their ability to run all machine learning algorithms, especially related to the Google Assistant, right from the phone — without having to upload queries to a cloud server for processing, as most other Android phones do. Google says with the new Assistant and other generative AI features, on-device processing is 150 times more complex than it was a year ago. The new TPU is designed with keeping those requirements in mind, Google claims.
Digital Trends Mobile Editor Joe Maring’s experience throughout his Google Pixel 8 Pro review has been consistent with Google’s claims. But with Google promising seven years of software updates, it will be worth watching how this section of the Tensor G3 chipset ages — or rather, avoids aging, especially since older Pixels have not had a convincing record in this regard.
One of the key features that the Tensor G3’s improved TPU enables is a more secure Face Unlock on the Pixel 8 series. Even though the Pixel 8 and 8 Pro lack any dedicated hardware to scan the contours of your face accurately, the TPU enables the phones to run sophisticated machine learning algorithms that will offer a high degree of accuracy while detecting faces — the highest on Android so far.
How the Tensor G3 handles image processing Joe Maring / Digital Trends The Tensor G3 also gets a slightly improved digital signal processor (DSP) for improved image and video processing. While there aren’t significant changes at the hardware level , Google claims to have “optimized the camera pipeline and built machine learning algorithms directly into the silicon” to offer a major boost in photos and especially videos.
One of the key benefits is the improvements to Pixel’s Live HDR feature, which means the phones give you a preview of the HDR shot that’s closer to what they will turn out to be. In addition, the Pixel 8 is the first Android device to support Ultra HDR images. This means the metadata related to HDR is attached to the image.
The HDR in these images appears more realistic on displays that support HDR instead of being implemented as blanket visual change to the images, much like video content with HDR or Dolby Vision. Similarly, on displays that do not support HDR, these images scale back to their non-HDR versions instead of appearing dull and dark as they previously would.
Apple devices, specifically the iPhone 13 and above, already support a similar feature called ISO HDR that allows HDR images to appear richer on HDR-supported screens.
As XDA’s Dylan Raga writes on Reddit , this format is exciting and can be seen as the future of HDR photography, especially with widespread and universal adoption across devices. The Pixel 8 sets the stage for more Android devices to adopt this feature, but it will also tense up the camera pipelines on the chipsets, which is where Tensor G3’s improvements to the DSP come in handy. More importantly, it will be exciting to see how these hold up throughout the Pixel 8’s promised seven years of lifetime — and if Google can keep refreshing abilities solely through software updates.
Tensor G3 overheating problems Joe Maring / Digital Trends One of the most pressing concerns we have encountered from previous Pixel devices, including the recently launched Google Pixel Fold with a Tensor G2 chipset, is excessive heating. To counter the effects of prolonged heating under stress, chips also come with built-in algorithms that limit the performance to reduce heat. This is commonly known as “throttling.” Every chip undergoes throttling to some extent, but excessive throttling, especially on moderate loads, can be detrimental to performance.
In his Pixel 8 Pro review, Maring noticed the phone only got slightly warm, but never uncomfortably hot, even after gaming. This is a good sign, but to test things further, we ran the 3DMark’s Wild Life Extreme Stress test, which comprises rigorous tasks over 20 minutes continuously. As the name suggests, the test stresses the chipset, especially the GPU.
The results conform the initial impressions: While the Pixel 8 Pro undergoes throttling through the stress test, temperatures did not rise beyond comfort levels. Starting at 26-degrees Centigrade (approximately 79-degrees Fahrenheit), the final internal temperature after 20 minutes of prolonged stress went only up to 40-degrees Centigrade (104-degrees Fahrenheit). This is the temperature at the GPU, and the external surface is relatively much cooler.
As for the drop in performance, the benchmark score dropped by about 15% in 20 minutes. This drop is considerable, although not unusual. Unless you’re gaming, you may not feel the difference, but you can expect some stuttering while recording long videos on the Pixel 8 or 8 Pro.
Meanwhile, the iPhone 15 Pro’s reported heating issues were recently fixed by Apple through an iOS update.
Is the Tensor G3 a good chip for the Pixel 8? Andy Boxall / Digital Trends The Google Pixel 8 series has the most refined Pixel smartphones we have encountered since the inception of the series in 2016. It gets well-rounded improvements ( not a pun for the design! ) to the hardware, especially in the form of the advanced Tensor G3 chipset, which is not only more powerful than previous generations, but also runs noticeably cooler.
However, as we mentioned in the last section, consistently challenging processes can lead to throttling, which can mar your experience during gaming or similar intensive tasks. An upside of the throttling is that the Pixel 8 series will be more efficient in terms of battery, but you will still lose on vigor.
Google says its “work with Tensor has never been about speeds and feeds, or traditional performance metrics.” While it emphasizes progress in regard to on-device AI improvements, the almost-last-gen hardware is difficult to overlook and might severely jeopardize Google’s plans to keep the Pixel running for the next seven years. While it’s a long time to even predict the future of smartphones — let alone the Pixel 8 — the immediate performance lag compared to chips such as the Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 still stymies interest from performance enthusiasts and mobile gamers.
Joe Maring / Digital Trends The bottom line for the Tensor G3 is that it remains focused on camera and AI improvements while running cooler than previous generations. It still feels like Tensor has much to catch up on in terms of raw performance, and it might with the next generation based on a much more powerful 10-core Exynos 2400 or Google’s fully independent hardware in 2025.
As difficult as it is to predict the future, what we can say right now is that the Tensor G3 chip inside the Pixel 8 and Pixel 8 Pro is a fine chip — good, even! What it’ll look like three or four years from now remains unclear, and there’s reason to be cautious about its aging process. But the G3 chip still delivers a lot to like right now, and if you’re thinking about getting the Pixel 8 or Pixel 8 Pro, you shouldn’t let it deter you from buying either one.
Editors' Recommendations I’ve had the Google Pixel 8 Pro for a month. Here’s why I’m keeping it The Google Pixel 8 just got its first update. Here’s what’s new This one Google Pixel 8 Pro feature is driving me crazy Google Pixel 8 Pro users are finding weird ways to use the phone I refuse to buy the Google Pixel 8 Pro, and it’s all Google’s fault Android Features Google Google Pixel Mobile Google released the next generation of Pixel devices recently, including the Google Pixel 8 and Google Pixel 8 Pro. These have been the best Pixel smartphones in a while, as they pack the improved Tensor G3 chip inside, better cameras, brighter displays, and more — all in a slightly updated design. I've been using the phones for a couple of weeks now, and I really like what Google's done with them.
But Google also added some more photo editing capabilities to the Pixel 8 lineup, with a heavy reliance on AI with the Tensor G3 chip. While these AI-heavy editing tools can help you chase perfection, they shouldn’t be relied on too heavily or abused.
The Pixel 8's AI tools are impressive ...
Magic Editor on the Google Pixel 8 Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends.
Mobile Two of the brightest smartphone displays on the market are featured on the Google Pixel 8 Pro and the OnePlus Open. However, in the ever-changing world of technology, there is always something better on the horizon.
On Tuesday, October 24, Chinese-based OnePlus and its parent company, Oppo, will announce "a new dawn" for smartphone screens. According to messages posted on Weibo by OnePlus and Digital Chat Station, the announcement is that BOE will manufacture a 3,000-nit panel for smartphones, which could be a game changer for the smartphone market. The soon-to-be-revealed display will offer 1440p resolution and support 2160Hz pulse width modulation (PWM) dimming.
Mobile Google’s new Pixel phones started shipping last week but there are already concerns over an apparent issue with the display on the Pro version of the new device.
According to various reports, some owners of the Pixel 8 Pro are seeing a yellow or pink tint on parts of the screen -- usually near the top or sides -- which apparently only shows up only when the device’s Always On Display is activated.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
