Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Share Wi-Fi Password on iPhone How to Restart iPhone Screen Record on iPhone Back Up an iPhone Clear Cache on iPhone Share Location on iPhone Home Mobile Guides How to factory reset an Apple iPhone and clear all your data By Simon Hill and Andre Revilla Close Sooner or later, you will have to completely wipe your iPhone memory — whether it's to clear it of personal data before selling it or just to refresh it for better performance. When that happens, a factory reset is a useful, though nuclear, option. When you're done, you will have what amounts to a brand new iPhone.
Before you get started, it's essential to back up your iPhone.
 This allows you to restore your backup once the factory reset is done. Even if you don't want or need all your old settings, it's a good idea to hang on to them at least for a while, just in case.
If you're selling or giving away your iPhone, be sure to turn off Find my iPhone before you reset.
How to factory reset an iPhone Ensure the phone was restored What do the other reset options mean? Difficulty Duration What You Need Apple iPhone Is your iPhone frozen or not responding? Follow our guide on how to reset an iPhone so that you can get up and running again. You should also check out our troubleshooting guide , because there are many steps you can take to fix problems with your iPhone, even if a factory reset doesn’t fix your issue.
How to factory reset an iPhone Once your backups are in place, the easiest way to reset your iPhone is to start with the Settings app.
Step 1: Go to Settings > General.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 2: Tap Transfer or reset phone.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Best refurbished Apple Black Friday deals on AirPods, iPads, iPhones, and more How I use my Apple Watch and iPhone to manage my diabetes The iPhone is getting out of control Step 3: Tap Erase all content and settings.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 4: Tap Continue.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 5: Enter your passcode.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 6: At this point, your phone will try to back up to the cloud. If it works, you'll be allowed to continue. If not, you'll be prompted to Erase anyway Image used with permission by copyright holder Ensure the phone was restored Once the restoration process is complete — a process that may take several minutes — check to ensure your phone has been restored to its original factory settings.
If done correctly, you’ll once again see the iOS Setup Assistant upon startup, from which you can then restore your phone from a backup or continue the process as if you were setting it up anew.
Image used with permission by copyright holder What do the other reset options mean? When you’re resetting your iPhone, iOS 15 presents a host of different options, and it can be confusing deciding which ones to choose. Usually, you’ll want to perform a simple factory reset, but here’s an explanation of what the other options do so that you can choose the best reset for your needs.
Note: If you are selling your phone or turning it over to someone else, the only command that safely erases everything and takes your phone back to its original state is Erase All Content and Settings as described above.
Reset All Settings This command resets all settings on your iPhone to their default — meaning all network settings and preferences. This is not a nuclear option, as only your system settings get reset. All your apps, data, documents, and files are preserved as is.
Reset Network Settings Sometimes you just need to refresh your network settings to set up a better connection. Choosing this option resets your network settings, flushes the cache, and deletes any temporary files you have stored on your device. It’s great for those who are experiencing trouble with their Wi-Fi connections.
Reset Keyboard Dictionary This is a simple resolution to autocorrect failures and involve wiping your keyboard dictionary’s history. Your iPhone’s autocorrect system sometimes hopelessly botches a sentence or word that was fine in its original form and this will solve the problem of getting typo suggestions and irrelevant words when typing.
Reset Home Screen Layout This is a great option if you want to return to your iPhone home screen’s factory default layout. Many users enjoy installing and rearranging apps on their smartphone’s home screen. If your changes no longer serve their original purpose, you can always reset to start over again.
Reset Location & Privacy Often, when you’re experimenting with your settings, you can accidentally cause problems. If you need to reinstate your phone’s initial privacy and location settings, consider this reset. You don’t have to worry about losing any other information in the process.
Editors' Recommendations It looks like the iPhone 16 will get a big design upgrade It’s finally happening — your iPhone is getting RCS in 2024 How to unblock a number on your iPhone iOS 17: How to move notifications to the top of your lock screen One of our favorite Android phones just got its own iMessage app Apple Apple iPhone How-To Guides Mobile Every year, we get a new iPhone; that’s just the way it goes. And one of the biggest upgrades each year is with the camera system.
Though the spotlight is typically on the Pro models of the iPhone, Apple gave us a pretty significant upgrade this year with the standard iPhone 15. Of course, it’s not as feature-packed as the iPhone 15 Pro, but Apple brought the Dynamic Island and USB-C to the regular iPhone 15, and even bumped up the camera to a whopping 48MP.
Mobile The iPhone has so many clever and fun little features that it's easy to miss some of them. One of the most whimsical features to come along in recent years is the ability to lift the subject of a photo away from the background so you can use it elsewhere — whether that's sharing it in an email, pasting it into a photo editing app, or even turning it into an iMessage sticker in iOS 17.
What's especially fascinating about this is that it seems like such a simple thing to do — and Apple does make it really easy — but there's a ton of number crunching going on under the hood to make it happen. This means you'll need an iPhone with a reasonably modern processor, but the good news is that it doesn't have to be the latest and greatest iPhone 15 Pro. While the insanely powerful A17 Pro chip in Apple's flagship smartphone surely helps things along, this feature can be used on any iPhone with an A12 Bionic chip or later, which goes back to the 2018 iPhone XS and iPhone XR.
Mobile I’ve been using an iPhone ever since 2008, starting with the original and then every generation since. For several years, the iPhone was only capable of SMS texting, with MMS support arriving with iOS 3 in 2009.
But in 2011, Apple created something new: iMessage. It first arrived on iOS and then went to the Mac in 2012 to replace iChat. iMessage is basically an instant messaging service that is exclusive to all Apple products: iPhone, iPad, Apple Watch, and Mac. You can send text, images and video, documents, rich preview links, stickers, and more between one another. You can also see if a message is delivered, send read receipts (if you want), and everything is encrypted. With iOS 16, you can even edit and unsend messages within a certain time frame.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
