Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? How to sell your old smartphone in 2022 By Simon Hill and Mark Jansen Close With an endless parade of new smartphones hitting the market every year, the temptation to upgrade is strong. While the rate of smartphone replacement has lengthened to 33 months , you may have some devices lurking around in your closet or drawer that others are willing to pay for.
Deciding what to get rid of Choosing where to sell How to wipe your smartphone How to list your smartphone Selling a smartphone with a cracked screen Around 1.5 billion smartphones have been sold each year recently, and that’s not including the amount resold on third-party markets. At a time when smartphones can cost upwards of $1,000, more consumers are looking toward secondhand devices from resellers on eBay, Amazon, and Swappa. In this guide, we’re going to help you work out what your old phone might be worth, where to sell it, and how to prepare it for postage.
Deciding what to get rid of A spot of spring cleaning can be cathartic and profitable. It feels good to clear out old stuff, create space, and line your pockets in the process. Your first dilemma is deciding what to sell, so dig into your closets and gather your old smartphones for inspection.
The best prepaid cell phone plans in 2023: the 7 best ones Wi-Fi not working? How to fix the most common problems How fast is 5G? What you need to know about 5G speeds There are various sound reasons for hanging on to an old phone, rather than parting with it: You might be planning to pass it on to a child, maybe you want a backup device in case your current phone breaks, or perhaps you’ve repurposed it as a smart home gadget.
Manything Just be aware that if you do plan to sell your smartphone one day, delaying it is only going to lower the value. The longer you hang on to an old device, the less it will be worth.
Find the box and accessories When you have a smartphone you’ve decided to sell, it’s a good idea to locate the original box and the accessories that came with it. Hunt around and see if you can dig up the box, the original cable and charger, the earphones, and anything else that was in there when you first opened it. This will make a difference, not only to the price you can command but also to how easy it will be to package up and ship.
How much is your old smartphone worth? A perfect condition phone, boxed with all the original accessories, is obviously going to be worth more than a scuffed phone with no box or charger. But to get the best possible price for your old smartphone, you’re going to have to do some research.
Generally, you’ll find that the best potential prices come from a private sale to another person, but that’s also the riskiest sale method. Trade-in deals are easy and straightforward, but they won’t make you as much money, and payments are usually in the form of credit or money off a new device. Selling directly to companies that deal in used electronics is the easiest way to get rid of an old smartphone, but it pays the least. Below, we’ll dive deeper into these three methods.
If you decide to use eBay or Craigslist, then you’ll need to do some legwork to find out what kind of price to set. Search as if you were a buyer seeking the phone you’re selling. Search the listings and collate the prices. Look for listings that are close to what you’re offering in terms of condition and accessories.
Andri Koolme/Flickr Andri Koolme/Flickr There are a few services that aggregate offer prices from different buyers, such as Flipsy , SellCell , and uSell.
 They can save you a bit of time, but they don’t search every database on the internet. For example, Flipsy doesn’t search through Swappa’s catalog of used phones. They can be part of your research, but you should not solely rely on them.
Unlocked phones are worth more The carrier your phone is locked to does have an impact on price. Unlocked phones, which can be activated and used on any carrier, will always command the highest fees, so it’s worth unlocking your smartphone before selling it. Check out our full phone unlocking guide for more details.
Choosing where to sell There are three main options for selling. You can sell directly to another person using an online marketplace, you can trade it in for credit, or you can sell to a company.
Selling through a marketplace You’ll get the highest prices by selling privately, but that means you’ll have to create an enticing listing, sort through offers, maybe negotiate the price, and deal with packaging up the phone or meeting someone to hand it over.
People on Craigslist seem to be willing to pay a bit more to avoid the hassle of waiting.
People on Craigslist seem to be willing to pay a bit more to avoid the hassle of waiting, but it’s not going to suit every seller. You should be prepared to take photos, write up a listing, field incoming offers, and then meet with the winning buyer to exchange your smartphone for cash. For a more in-depth look, check out our guide on how to sell on Craigslist.
Your next best option in terms of potential price is probably eBay, but you must remember to factor in eBay fees and your packaging and shipping costs. With eBay, you can gamble and list your smartphone for auction, or you can just set the price you want. To get an idea of probable auction prices, search the listings for your phone, and check the box that says Sold listings under Show only on the left-hand side of the eBay website in your browser. You will have to take photos of your smartphone, write up a detailed listing, and package up and send your smartphone to the winning bidder. Check the postage cost yourself in advance to avoid a nasty shock; we haven’t always found the postage calculator built into eBay to be accurate. For more details, read our guide on how to sell on eBay.
Chris DeGraw/Digital Trends Chris DeGraw/Digital Trends There are a few other marketplaces where you can sell your smartphone, but the one we recommend is Swappa.
 It has several protections in place to prevent fraud, making it a safer place to buy used phones. You will have to submit a verification photo of your smartphone and provide the IMEI or ESN for a blacklist check. Every listing is also manually reviewed by a team of mobile device experts. Best of all, Swappa charges a flat listing fee upfront — you won’t find yourself paying an unexpected amount of money after the sale. However, you should include postage costs in your price and be prepared to package and send the device when it sells.
Trade-in your smartphone It’s very straightforward to trade in your device, and you can get an estimated price by answering a couple of questions on the relevant website. Some websites, like Amazon, give you a free prepaid shipping label to print out, and you’ll just have to package up the device and send it. With Verizon, you also have the option of taking your device into a store to have it appraised and trade it in.
Most trade-in deals will either give you credit that can only be spent with that retailer or they’ll give you money off a new device. Be aware that the final price you get with a trade-in is only decided once they inspect the device, so if you don’t answer the questions honestly — describing a scratched phone as flawless, for example — then expect to get less than the quoted price.
Here are a few of the top options for trade-ins: Amazon Apple AT&T Best Buy Samsung Sprint Staples T-Mobile Target Verizon Walmart Sell to a company The easiest way to get cash for your smartphone is to sell it to a company that buys used smartphones. Just like with the trade-in services, you can get an estimated price online by answering a few questions. That price is usually good and locked in for a fixed period. However, you’ll only be paid once the device has been received and inspected.
One of the great things about many of these services is that they will send you the packaging with prepaid postage, so all you have to do is box your phone up, drop it in, and send it off. Here are a few of the best options: EcoATM Glyde Decluttr Blazing Electronics Next Worth MaxBack If you want to sell your device directly, then some small, independent phone stores might give you cash over the counter.
EcoATM also runs a kiosk service — usually located inside a shopping mall — where you can place your device in a machine. The machine inspects your device, gives you a cash offer, and, if you agree, you get the cash on the spot. Note that you will need a government-issued ID to verify your identity.
The EcoATM service is part of the Gazelle brand, which is our top recommendation for selling your smartphone to a company. It’s a trustworthy service that’s very easy to use.
How to wipe your smartphone It’s very important to make sure that you sign out of accounts on your smartphone and completely wipe it clean before you sell it. There are two things to consider: Firstly, you want to back up all your precious files and make sure no one else has access to them, and secondly, you need to turn off the Activation Lock or Factory Reset Protection.
We have guides on how to back up your Android smartphone and how to back up an iPhone with iCloud.
 You might also be interested in our advice on switching from iPhone to Android and vice versa , as it includes details on transferring photos, contacts, and other files.
When all your files are backed up, we recommend signing out of all accounts on the smartphone you’re selling before you wipe it. You should also turn it off, remove the SIM card, and remove the MicroSD card if you have one. Turn it back on and make sure that it has at least 50-percent battery life. Then, you’re ready to wipe it.
How to wipe an iPhone On an iPhone, you need to sign out of iCloud and the iTunes & App Store.
If your iPhone is running iOS 10.3 or later, go to Settings > [Your Name] , scroll down, and tap Sign Out.
 Enter your Apple ID and password, and then tap Turn Off.
If you have an earlier iOS version, then go to Settings > iCloud > Sign Out.
 Tap Sign Out again, then tap Delete From My [Device] and enter your Apple ID password. Then go to Settings > iTunes & App Store > Apple ID > Sign Out.
Genevieve Poblano/Digital Trends Genevieve Poblano/Digital Trends Now you can go to Settings > General > Reset > Erase All Content and Settings , enter your Apple ID and password if prompted, then tap Erase [device].
If you’re switching to an Android or another phone that’s not an iPhone, then make sure you deregister iMessage.
For more details, check our full guide on how to factory reset an iPhone.
How to wipe an Android phone On an Android device, the instructions differ depending on the manufacturer.
If you have a Samsung phone, then go to Settings > Lock screen > Screen lock type and choose None.
 On a Google Pixel, go to Settings > Security > Screen lock and choose None.
Now you need to remove your Google account. On a Samsung Galaxy device, go to Settings > Accounts and backup > Accounts and tap on Google , then tap the three vertical dots in the upper right or More > Remove account.
 On a Google Pixel, go to Settings > Accounts > Google and tap the three vertical dots in the upper right, then tap Remove account.
You’re ready to factory reset the phone now. On a Samsung Galaxy, go to Settings > General management > Reset > Factory data reset and then tap Reset device.
 If you’re using a Pixel or a device with a similar setting app, go to Settings > System > Advanced > Reset options > Delete all data (factory reset) and then tap Erase all data.
For more details, read our guide on how to wipe your Android phone.
How to list your smartphone Once you have factory reset your smartphone, you should clean it up gently with a soft microfiber cloth. If you’re going for a trade-in, buy-back service, or selling to a company like EcoATM, then you can skip to the next section.
If you’re selling through a marketplace like eBay, then you need to prepare your listing. Take several photographs of your smartphone in a good light. Consider also photographing the box and any original accessories you managed to track down. If there’s any damage to the phone, it’s best to mention it in your listing and photograph it to avoid disputes later.
For a marketplace like Swappa, you’ll need to provide your IMEI. Opening up your dialer and typing *#06# is the easiest way to find it, but we have a guide on how to check your IMEI number on any phone that also has some alternative methods.
Sometimes buyers on sites like eBay will ask for your IMEI number because they want to check that the phone isn’t blocked after being reported lost or stolen. You should use your own judgment about whether to share it or not, but you should never post your IMEI number in a public listing. For more detailed information about IMEI numbers, read our article on the used phone scam.
When you write up your listing, include as much information as possible. You should be honest about the condition of your phone, list any extras that come with it, and mention whether it’s locked to a specific carrier or not.
What to do with cases and accessories you bought There’s a good chance you picked a good case for your phone , maybe even a couple. Perhaps you bought a dock, wireless charger , portable battery , or some other accessory to go with it. Check if your accessory is compatible with your new phone. If it is, then you might want to keep it. If not, then you might consider selling it or giving it away.
If you’re selling on eBay, then throwing in a case might entice more buyers. Sadly, there isn’t much of a market for secondhand cases, so you’re unlikely to be able to sell it on its own unless it’s really desirable and in great condition.
For things you don’t want to keep and can’t sell, try something like Freecycle to see if you can find someone else who can use it. As a last resort, you can recycle a lot of things at Best Buy.
 For batteries, it’s also worth checking Call2Recycle.
How to package and send your smartphone Before you send your smartphone, we recommend charging it and then holding down the power button and turning it off. For trade-in deals and when selling to companies where they need to review the device before releasing payment, sending a charged phone will expedite the process.
The safest way to package up your smartphone is to find the original box and put it in there. Most smartphone boxes are designed to be sturdy and protect the phone in transit. A smartphone box inside a padded envelope should be perfectly safe to send. If you can’t find the original box, then we suggest finding an alternative, sturdy box. Make sure the phone is tightly packed and wrapped so that it can’t move around and get damaged in transit.
You should make sure the smartphone is tracked. Choose a postal service that provides a tracking number and share it with your buyer. If he or she doesn’t receive the smartphone and you didn’t provide a tracking number, then you’ll have no proof that it arrived and will be held responsible. The buyer will be refunded, and you will have difficulty recouping your money.
It’s also vital to choose a postal service that provides the appropriate level of insurance. If the phone is damaged or lost in transit, the seller is usually held responsible, and the buyer will be refunded. Though you may be able to put in a claim with the postal service, it will take time, and it’ll only pay out a maximum of the insured amount your chosen postage covers.
Selling a smartphone with a cracked screen Image used with permission by copyright holder It’s not uncommon to have a smartphone with some damage when you’re looking to sell, especially the dreaded cracked screen. Here’s what you should know.
First, always check to see if your warranties will cover a cheap screen replacement. If your phone is only one or two years old (especially if you have an extended warranty), then there’s a good chance you can get the screen replaced and recoup the costs entirely when you sell the phone. Simply replacing the screen can add $100 to $200 onto the resale value of a smartphone, so it may also be worth it to pay for the replacement directly in some cases.
Nevertheless, you can still exchange a shattered phone, but you must be extra particular and accept the fact that you won’t receive as much cash in return. Refurbishment businesses will gladly purchase a broken phone that’s in decent shape so they can fix and sell it off to someone else. We advise beginning this process by using popular, reputable websites like Recell.io or Decluttr , which have extensive experience with broken electronic devices and are sure to purchase your device from you. Please understand, though, that you might not receive more than $50 or a little more for your smartphone, but you are guaranteed to get something for it.
On the other hand, other phone-exchanging websites like eBay and the majority of the other platforms we mentioned earlier have distinct sections for setting out if the condition of the phone is questionable or if you are trading it in for components, not as a functioning device.
Maybe you’re experiencing an unfortunate situation where you have a phone screen that is too damaged to use correctly. In this case, we suggest connecting it to your computer to wipe it out and reset before you try to sell it. Do not skip this critical step.
Editors' Recommendations The best tablets in 2023: top 11 tablets you can buy now The best Android tablets in 2023: the 10 best ones you can buy The best old phones in 2023: 10 smartphones you should still buy The best iPhone keyboard apps in 2023: our 12 favorites The best apps for a second phone number: our 10 favorites Mobile While they may not be some of the longest-lasting smartphones on the market, modern iPhones boast more than respectable battery life that should be able to get you through an entire day's use without breaking too much of a sweat. Of course, that assumes a lot of things — including a battery that's still relatively new and in good health, plus a usage pattern that doesn't include all-day streaming or gaming.
If you fall into either (or both) of these categories, then overnight charging isn't going to cut it, and you'll want to get your battery topped up again as quickly as you can so you can get back on the road. Thankfully, every iPhone released in the past six years supports much faster charging, but the downside is that with very few exceptions, Apple has never supplied you with the right adapter to get the best possible charging speeds from your iPhone.
Mobile Don’t want to spend $1,000 or more on a new smartphone? We don’t blame you. And the good news is there are plenty of models available for half that price, but the trick is knowing which cheap smartphone is worth buying. After all, just because you’re not spending flagship phone money doesn’t mean you want to be stuck with a phone that's rubbish. There are plenty of options out there for the best cheap phones! We’ve collected the models that still give you great performance, good cameras, the right connectivity, and often a desirable design and brand name too — all for less money than you may expect. Cheap phones in 2023 will surprise you with their strong performance, making them more than capable of playing the latest games; plus they have batteries that will last you at least a day.
Mobile Nearly all of today’s smartphones and smartwatches are equipped with NFC technology. Whether you realize it or not, your phone's NFC scanner is likely active right now. Don’t worry, though, as the NFC chip in your phone is a passive scanner that does nothing until you hold it within a couple of inches of another NFC device or tag. Like many features of your smartphone, it quietly sits in the background until it's needed, but it can also be used to unlock a wide range of cool features that can make your life easier. If you've ever used Apple Pay, Google Pay, or Samsung Pay, then you've already taken advantage of the NFC feature on your phone. However, NFC can do a lot more than just handle mobile payments. Here's the low-down on all things NFC.
What is NFC, and how does it work? NFC, which is short for near-field communication, is a technology that allows devices like phones and smartwatches to exchange small bits of data with other devices and read NFC-equipped cards over relatively short distances. The technology behind NFC is very similar to radio-frequency identification (RFID) commonly used in the security cards and keychain fobs that you likely already use to get into your office or gym. In fact, NFC is an evolution of RFID that offers more advanced features and better security, but the two technologies still share a lot of things in common.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
