Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? How to wipe your Android phone or tablet properly By Simon Hill and Kevin Parrish Close Smartphones have become our lives stuffed into a pocket-sized gadget. They’re packed full of sensitive business emails, financial details, contact information, trash talk in texts, risqué photos — you name it. There’s a lot of data that you just don’t want in nefarious hands when it’s time to upgrade.
Disable Factory Reset Protection Factory reset your device Overwriting with junk data However, you can’t just move from one phone to another. For example, when security firm Avast bought 20 Android smartphones from eBay, it was able to recover photos, Google searches, emails, text messages, and contact details. Yikes! That said, when you need to sell or discard your smartphone , make sure you factory reset it properly. This guide shows you how to fully wipe your Android phone and make sure it still doesn’t have any personal info lingering behind.
It’s finally happening — your iPhone is getting RCS in 2024 The iPhone’s futuristic satellite tech isn’t coming to Android any time soon Samsung just killed one of its most important Android phones Disable Factory Reset Protection Before resetting the Android device, you need to disable Factory Reset Protection (FRP). Google introduced FRP in Android 5.0 Lollipop as an extra layer of security. It’s designed to prevent thieves from wiping and using (or selling) your stolen device.
However, when you factory reset a phone with FRP enabled and try to set it up as a new device, you’ll see a prompt to enter the username and password for the Google Account previously registered to the device. If you don’t have those details, then the phone will remain locked and you can’t gain access. Obviously, this isn’t ideal if you’re trying to sell or give it away.
The method for disabling FRP depends on the Android device manufacturer. We list the two most common: Google (stock Android 11) and Samsung (modified Android 10).
Disable Screen Lock Taking this step means you remove all means of restricting access to the device, including PIN, pattern, and biometrics.
Android 11 Step 1: Swipe a finger down from the top to expand the shade and then tap the cog icon. This opens the Settings screen.
Step 2: Tap Security.
Step 3: Tap Screen Lock.
Step 4: Enter your PIN to access this setting.
Step 5: Tap None to disable this feature.
Samsung phones Step 1: Swipe a finger down from the top to expand the shade and then tap the cog icon. This opens the Settings screen.
Step 2: Tap Lock Screen.
Step 3: Tap Screen Lock Type.
Step 4: Enter your PIN to access this setting.
Step 5: Tap None.
Remove your Google Account Before resetting the device, you should remove your Google Account after disabling Screen Lock. A good rule of thumb is to remove any secondary Google Account first and then delete your primary account.
Android 11 Step 1: Swipe a finger down from the top to expand the shade and then tap the cog icon. This opens the Settings screen.
Step 2: Tap Accounts.
Step 3: Tap the Account you want to remove.
Step 4: Tap Remove Account.
Samsung Step 1: Swipe a finger down from the tap to expand the shade and then tap the cog icon. This opens the Settings screen.
Step 2: Tap Accounts and Backup.
Step 3: Tap Accounts.
Step 4: Tap the Account you want to remove.
Step 5: Tap Remove Account.
Remove your Samsung Account Obviously, this applies to Samsung phones. LG and other third-party manufacturers may have a similar method.
Step 1: Swipe a finger down from the tap to expand the shade and then tap the cog icon. This opens the Settings screen.
Step 2: Tap Accounts and Backup.
Step 3: Tap Accounts.
Step 4: Tap your Samsung Account.
Step 5: Tap Remove Account.
Once all accounts are removed from the device, you can proceed with the factory reset.
Factory reset your device Factory resetting an Android device supposedly wipes it clean, but it doesn’t.
When you start a factory reset, the process deletes the addresses of all of your local data. That means your data still resides on the device, but Android doesn’t know where to find it. Moreover, Android can’t overwrite this data.
This lurking unallocated data can be problematic. You think the device is erased, you sell it, and then someone employs off-the-shelf recovery software to retrieve your “ it’s supposed to be deleted by gosh ” data, like bank account information.
But don’t fret: We have a remedy. The following instructions show you how to delete data properly.
Part 1: Verify your Android version This is your first step, but it requires a PIN or password every time you turn on your phone. With encryption enabled, someone trying to recover your “deleted” data will need a special key for decryption, which the person(s) won’t have.
If your phone shipped with Android 6.0 Marshmallow or newer, it should be encrypted out of the box by default, and you can skip to the next section. However, if you’re unsure about which version of Android you have, take a look here: Step 1: Swipe a finger down from the top to expand the shade and then tap the cog icon. This opens the Settings screen.
Step 2: Tap About Phone.
Step 3: On Android 11, scroll down to see the Android version. On Samsung phones, go to the next step.
Step 4: Tap Software Version.
 You’ll see the version listed on the following screen.
Part 2: Make sure your data is encrypted The following instructions show you how to verify that your phone is encrypted. However, if you need to enable encryption, make sure it’s plugged into a power outlet, as the process can take several hours depending on the data amount.
Android 11 Step 1: Swipe a finger down from the top to expand the shade and then tap the cog icon. This opens the Settings screen.
Step 2: Tap Security.
Step 3: Tap Encryption & Credentials.
Step 4: Tap Encrypt Phone if it’s not encrypted.
Samsung Step 1: Swipe a finger down from the top to expand the shade and then tap the cog icon. This opens the Settings screen.
Step 2: Tap Biometrics and Security.
Step 3: Tap Other Security Settings.
Step 4: Scroll down and tap Strong Protection if it’s toggled off.
Step 5: Enter your PIN, password, or pattern to finish.
Encrypt the SD card If you keep the installed SD card in the Samsung phone (versus removing it for another device), you can encrypt that too. Here’s how: Step 1: With Biometrics and Security open, tap Encrypt or Decrypt SD Card.
Step 2: Tap the Encrypt SD Card button.
Now you can move on to officially move out of your Android device! Part 3: Do a factory reset Make sure you back up everything you want to keep, as a factory reset will wipe it all. The steps are similar for most Android devices, but here are the two most common.
Android 11 Step 1: Swipe a finger down from the top to expand the shade and then tap the cog icon. This opens the Settings screen.
Step 2: Scroll down and tap System.
Step 3: Tap Advanced to expand your options.
Step 4 : Tap Reset Options.
Step 5: Tap Erase All Data (Factory Reset).
Step 6: Tap Reset Phone to start the process.
Samsung Step 1: Swipe a finger down from the top to expand the shade and then tap the cog icon. This opens the Settings screen.
Step 2: Scroll down and tap General Management.
Step 3: Tap Reset.
Step 4: Tap Factory Data Reset.
Step 5: Tap Reset to start the process.
Once you complete these steps, your phone will be clean. Any previously recoverable data will be encrypted and should be impossible to decrypt.
According to most tech experts, you can now safely sell your smartphone or pass it along to someone else. For some people, however, a factory reset isn’t enough reassurance.
Overwriting with junk data If you want to be certain that your information is completely gone, you can overwrite the encrypted data. You can easily do this by loading your device with junk data and then perform a second factory reset. This method makes it impossible to recover the wiped information because you’ve encrypted and then overwritten your data. It’s likely overkill — but if you want to go this route, it’s a simple enough process.
First, you’ll load a bunch of data onto your phone — dummy data or meaningless content like a few big videos — until the storage is full. Now when you factory reset your phone, all of the junk data you just downloaded will be encrypted on top of your personal data, so you’ll add an extra layer of protection to your device.
You might not have the time to take these steps, or you might not trust yourself to do it right. In that case, you can download an app to do all of the work for you. Take a look at Shreddit , Secure Erase with iShredder 6 , and AVG Cleaner , all of which are in the Play Store.
Once you’ve made the choice to wipe your Android, you’ll have several options on how to protect your data before you dispose of the device itself. You can utilize factory resets, encryption, or junk overwriting, and you should end up with a device that is wiped clean.
Editors' Recommendations Qualcomm’s newest chip will bring AI to cheaper Android phones One of our favorite Android phones just got its own iMessage app When is my phone getting Android 14? Here’s everything we know MediaTek’s new chip just raised the bar for Android phones Don’t update your Pixel phone — a new Android update might break it Android How-To Android Google Mobile "Fitness" can mean a lot of things. For some people, it's being able to run far, or run fast. For others, it's being able to lift heavy things and lower them back down again. Others may simply want to keep trim, or eat healthily. It may even mean getting a great night's sleep, or making sure your mental wellness is at its best. Whatever fitness means for you, we have a list of apps that cover all the possible bases. These apps excel in a number of different areas, but what they all generally have in common is that they use your iPhone's powerful tech to monitor and analyze your performance. As a result, they can help you progress along your fitness journey.
These apps are great at keeping you fit, but they're always best when paired with other tech, so make sure to check out our lists of the best fitness trackers and the best running headphones. Here are the best fitness apps for the iPhone in 2023.
Apple Fitness Mobile As much as we love having the best smartphones in our pockets, there are times when those small screens don't cut it, and we just need a larger display. That's when you turn to a tablet, which is great for being productive on the go and can be a great way to unwind and relax too. While the tablet market really took off after the iPad, it has grown to be quite diverse with a huge variety of products — from great budget options to powerhouses for professionals.
We've tried out a lot of tablets here at Digital Trends, from the workhorses for pros to tablets that are made for kids and even seniors, there's a tablet for every person and every budget. For most people, though, we think Apple's iPad Air is the best overall tablet — especially if you're already invested in the Apple ecosystem. But if you're not an Apple user, that's fine too; there are plenty of other great options that you'll find in this roundup.
Mobile There was once a time when prepaid cell phone plans meant getting only basic calling features and limited data. Thankfully, that’s changed. Many of today’s prepaid plans offer many of the same core features of the best cell postpaid phone plans, including high-speed 5G data, unlimited calling and texting, and even international roaming — all without the need to commit to a contract.
Not only that, but you can often find prepaid plans at far lower prices, even if you’re only setting up a single line. While traditional carrier plans give their best discounts for families and other groups, many prepaid plans lead with their best price right out of the gate.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
