Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Share Wi-Fi Password on iPhone How to Restart iPhone Screen Record on iPhone Back Up an iPhone Clear Cache on iPhone Share Location on iPhone Home Mobile Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Over 3,000 iPhone 15 cases discounted for early Black Friday — from $3 By Albert Bassili Close Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends Have you recently grabbed the new iPhone 15 ? If so, you need to slap a case on it as soon as possible. Smartphones are getting as expensive as your first car, and the phones are much more fragile. Thankfully iPhone 15 cases are fairly cheap. You can grab a serviceable, if not exciting, phone case for around $10. But if you want something with a bit more flair, you’ll have to spend a bit more.
You’ve picked a good time to shop for iPhone 15 deals though. It’s almost Thanksgiving, which means early Black Friday deals are starting to trickle in. Amazon has been releasing a lot of tantalizing deals in preparation for the shopping holiday, and that includes some great deals on iPhone 15 cases. We’ve pulled some of our favorite options out below, but it might be easier to shop the sale yourself by clicking the big red button.
What to buy in Amazon’s iPhone 15 case sale Starting off with a relatively simple and clear case, this is great if you don’t want anything fancy and essentially follows the shape of your phone and is going for $15, instead of $30. Alternatively, this has bumpers on the corners that help mitigate at least a little bit of damage and is going relatively cheaply for $5 instead of $10. On the other hand, if you want something that’s simple but doesn’t isn’t clear, this comes in 4 different opaque colors and costs $24 instead of $29, and there’s even a 5% coupon to bring it down further.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
Unfortunately, none of these cases come with MagSafe, and for that, you’ll want something like the that’s going for $7 instead of $13, a big discount. If you’d like to add a bit of color, these have four transparent and five opaque colors to pick from, and they’re pretty cheap at $11 plus an additional 16% off with a coupon, so you can grab a few. Of course, these are two relatively budget options, so if you want something that’s a bit more wear-resistant, this has a lot more oomph to it and a $19 price tag.
Now, if you want something a bit more fancy, these have nine different and gorgeous graphics you can pick from and are as cheap as $5, down from $10. Similarly, these give you a wood finish look to your phone and three options to pick from, which we also find quite attractive, and cost $10 but come with a few nice promotions and savings you can take advantage of. If you want something that has a more gamer-y aesthetic, these have a very techy look and also come with a stand and a camera cover for $8 with a 10% coupon you can take advantage of.
Editors' Recommendations Best iPad Black Friday deals: iPad Mini, iPad Air, iPad Pro, and more 75 best Amazon Black Friday deals on laptops, TVs, Apple, and more Google Pixel Black Friday deals: Pixel 8, Pixel Watch, Pixel Buds and more Best refurbished Apple Black Friday deals on AirPods, iPads, iPhones, and more Best Fitbit Black Friday deals: Save on Fitbit Sense 2 and more Deals Amazon Apple Apple iPhone Mobile For active tech fans, a Garmin Watch is near essential. The best Garmin Watches are generally more robust than the average smartwatch and they're designed with an active lifestyle in mind. That means better navigation features, better tracking of whatever it is you're doing, and even training plans to help you perfect that marathon you're aiming towards. Some of the best smartwatches around for avid runners, swimmers, or hikers, it's great to see some awesome Black Friday deals pop up for those seeking Garmin watches. We've picked out the very best Black Friday smartwatch deals around and listed them below.
Best Garmin Watch Black Friday deal Garmin Forerunner 255 GPS Smartwatch -- $250, was $350 The Garmin Forerunner 255 GPS Smartwatch is primarily a running watch and perfect for helping you train for your next big race. Not only does it tell you how far and how hard to run but its training plans also encourage you to rest, planning out periods of time for recovery. An impressive 14 days of battery life in smartwatch mode or up to 30 hours in GPS mode mean no need to charge so often compared to regular smartwatches.
Mobile If you already own the new Apple iPhone 15 or any of its variants but you're still stuck with a basic case, it's highly recommended that you take advantage of this year's Black Friday deals to enjoy some savings on a much-needed upgrade. Not only should you be providing the necessary protection for your iPhone 15 to keep it unscathed, but it would be a huge bonus to place it in a case that looks stylish and matches your personality. However, there's a problem -- there are thousands of iPhone 15 case deals that are available for Black Friday, so it's going to be very hard to narrow down your choices. That won't stop us from trying though, so you should read on.
Best iPhone 15 case Black Friday deal For serious protection without making your iPhone 15 too heavy, you should go for the OtterBox Commuter Series, which is on sale in Amazon's early Black Friday deals for $35 instead of $40. The $5 discount may not look like much, but it's a welcome bonus for what we've tagged as the best rugged case in our roundup of the best iPhone 15 cases. It's capable of withstanding three times the military standards for drop protection with a hybrid dual-layer construction that combines recycled rubber with a rigid outer shell, but it stays slim and lightweight so your iPhone 15 won't feel like a brick in your hands. We're not sure if this lowered price will remain online through to the shopping holiday, so you should think about making the purchase right now.
Web Best Buy is one of the key retailers when it comes to offering fantastic Black Friday deals. That means it's the perfect place to check out awesome TV deals, laptop deals, and even great sales on appliances too. With hundreds of options newly available, we've helped you out by picking out some highlights. Below, you'll find all the best Best Buy Black Friday deals on TVs, laptops, gaming PCs, headphones, appliances, and other items too.
Best Buy Black Friday TV deals Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
