Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Features Phones don’t cause brain tumors, experts say By Sascha Brodsky Close A growing body of evidence shows that mobile phones don’t cause brain cancer.
Reassuring results Brain cancer remains a concern The use of mobile phones does not increase brain tumor incidence, according to a new study.
 The research bolsters previous findings that show mobiles aren’t linked to brain cancer.
“This study was so important because we saw a spike in cancer cases from 1975-1992,” Dr. Jessica Jones, an assistant professor of oncology with McGovern Medical School at UTHealth Houston and Memorial Hermann Health System in Houston told Digital Trends in an interview.
Don’t buy the iPhone 15 — 5 reasons to wait for the iPhone 16 It’s 50 years to the day since the first cell phone call I don’t want to see 5G on any phone in 2023 Brain cancer cases increased from 1995-to 2008, Jones said, adding, “What could have caused such a rise? There were a few trends in that time frame, including the use of cell phones. This study looked at so many patients we can rest assured that cell phones do not cause brain cancer.” Reassuring results FG Trade/Getty Images In a recent study, researchers tracked the health of more than 1 million women in the United Kingdom. From this study, published in the Journal of the National Cancer Institute, researchers from Oxford Population Health and International Agency for Research on Cancer reported that there is no increased risk of brain tumors overall or by brain tumor subtype or its locations in mobile phone users, compared to those who have never used one.
“These results support the accumulating evidence that mobile phone use under usual conditions does not increase brain tumor risk,” one of the study’s authors, Kirstin Pirie from Oxford Population Health’s Cancer Epidemiology Unit, said in a news release.
However, the researchers who led the study cautioned that their findings were limited. They said it’s not clear whether the risks associated with mobile phone use are different in those who use mobile phones considerably more than was typical of women they studied. In the study, only 18% of phone users reported talking on a mobile phone for 30 minutes or more each week. The study authors noted that those who use mobile phones for long durations could reduce their exposure to radiofrequency waves by using hands-free kits or loudspeakers.
The study participants did not include children or adolescents, but other researchers have investigated the association between mobile phone use and brain tumor risk in these groups and have not found any worrisome trends.
Mobile technologies are improving all the time so that the more recent generations emit substantially lower output power.
“Mobile technologies are improving all the time so that the more recent generations emit substantially lower output power,” the study’s lead investigator Joachim Schüz said in the news release. “Nevertheless, given the lack of evidence for heavy users, advising mobile phone users to reduce unnecessary exposures remains a good precautionary approach.” Lyle D. Burgoon , a toxicologist who previously served as a senior science and policy advisor to the US Environmental Protection Agency, told Digital Trends in an interview that there is no evidence that mobile phones, when used properly, will cause tumors. Some opponents of mobile phone use cite the National Toxicology Program (NTP) studies as providing evidence that the devices can cause cancer.
But Burgoon said the NTP results are often misinterpreted. What the NTP studies actually found, he said, was that at levels that are approximately six times above the legal limit for radiation exposure, there is evidence of DNA breakage and some association with brain tumors in male rats.
“This means that NTP found no evidence of brain tumors in rats exposed to levels of radiofrequency radiation typically produced by our cell phones,” Burgoon said. “Therefore, it is clear – when mobile phones are used properly, with radiation within the legal limit set by the FCC, there is no evidence that people will develop brain tumors based on the rat studies. There are significant study design issues with the rat studies, but those biases would tend to result in an increase in brain tumors being detected (and thus false positives).” Brain cancer remains a concern Image used with permission by copyright holder Despite the encouraging results of the recent study, in the United States, one out of 100,000 men or women will be diagnosed with brain cancer. There are certain places in the United States where epidemiologists are paying particularly close attention, such as Colonia High School in New Jersey , where brain tumors aren’t 1/100,000 but rather 1/300.
“When there are certain ‘hotspots’ that we see increased numbers of cancer, we usually think not about what is ‘usual’ day-to-day exposures but what is ‘unusual’ day-to-day exposures,” Jones said. “Is there something unique to that one area? Cell phone use is not unique in that almost everyone has or uses them. For hot spots like Colonia H.S. in New Jersey, there is a question of possible radiation exposure or polluted water.” Jones said the best thing you can do for health is to put down your phone and exercise.
“Even 30 minutes a day for walking can make a big difference,” Jones added. “Dropping ten pounds if you are overweight has shown a dramatic decrease in cancer risk.” Editors' Recommendations No, you really don’t need the iPhone 15 I finally figured out why I don’t love the iPhone 14 Pro’s camera The iPhone 15 may finally get reverse wireless charging — but I don’t want it Don’t let the delays scare you — the iPhone 14 Pro is still worth it Experts say the iPhone 14’s satellite feature may have a dangerous side effect Features Mobile Apple is gearing up to announce a bunch of products at its September 7 event, and chief among them will be the iPhone 14 series. We're expecting a refined design, a new chipset, and — of course — battery improvements.
Portrait mode is one of the most used camera features on smartphones, and is something Apple brought into the spotlight with the iPhone 7 Plus. With the iPhone 14 right around the corner, I thought it was a good time to pitch the iPhone 13 Pro Max against the Galaxy S22 Ultra to see how their Portrait modes perform — and what Apple needs to get right on the next flagship.
Mobile T-Mobile is linking up with SpaceX to use its Starlink satellites to dramatically boost the carrier's cell phone coverage to pretty much all parts of the U.S., bringing connectivity to isolated areas that up to now have been out of reach of providers.
The service will launch next year, starting with texts, MMS, and select messaging apps. Current mobile phones will be able to use T-Mobile’s new service; in other words, no new technology will be required to make it work.
Mobile The Google Pixel 6a is finally here. Pre-orders are open, regular sales begin July 28, and reviews for the phone are now live. That includes my Pixel 6a review, which I used to (mostly) praise the phone. There's quite a lot that the Pixel 6a gets right. The new design is striking, Google's Tensor chipset enables significantly more power than in previous generations, the cameras are a joy to use, and the Android 12 software experience is as outstanding as you'd expect from Google.
But none of those stand out as my favorite thing about the Pixel 6a. As much as I appreciate its flagship-grade performance and reliable cameras, what I've become most infatuated with about the 6a is admittedly quite boring: It’s how the phone feels. In a world of increasingly large smartphones from Apple, Samsung, and even Google itself, the Pixel 6a goes in the opposite direction with a petite, lightweight form factor that I absolutely adore.
Righting the biggest mistake of the Pixel 6 and 6 Pro Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
