Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Samsung Galaxy A54 review: buy it, and make your life more colorful By Andy Boxall Close $450.00 Eye-catching colors It looks like the Galaxy S23 Colorful screen Speakers sound good Long software commitment Battery doesn't last two days No wireless charging Camera lacks realism Color is at the heart of the Galaxy A54. I’ll say this again in a few moments, but if you decide to buy the Samsung Galaxy A54, get it in bright purple or lime. It looks fantastic, and the colorful body matches the really colorful photos it takes — and the lovely screen too.
Samsung Galaxy A54: design Samsung Galaxy A54: screen Samsung Galaxy A54: software and performance Samsung Galaxy A54: camera Samsung Galaxy A54: battery and charging Samsung Galaxy A54: price and availability Samsung Galaxy A54: verdict But should you consider buying it in the first place? I’ve had a very happy relationship with the Galaxy A54, and provided you ask yourself a pertinent question before handing over your money, I think you’ll like it. Let’s talk about why and that all-important question next.
Samsung Galaxy S24: news, rumored price, release date, and more Fixing your broken Samsung phone is about to get easier Best Samsung Galaxy Z Flip 5 deals: Get the foldable for free Samsung Galaxy A54: design Andy Boxall/Digital Trends The Samsung Galaxy A54 looks a lot like the Galaxy S23 , which is no bad thing, particularly if you want flagship phone looks for mid-range money. However, the Galaxy S23 is slightly more compact than the Galaxy A54, which is taller, wider, and thicker at 8.2mm and 202 grams in weight. This is mostly due to the 6.4-inch screen, which is larger than the Galaxy S23’s 6.1-inch screen.
As I already mentioned, I love the Galaxy A54’s colors. There are the usual black and white versions available, but it’s absolutely worth injecting some actual color into your life with either the Violet or Lime versions. They really do look fantastic, and I’ve been using the Lime version for my review (but also loved the Violet version when I saw it ahead of the Galaxy A54’s launch). Pick one of these, and you’ll stand out from the crowd in the best way possible.
Andy Boxall/Digital Trends The screen and the back of the Galaxy A54 are covered in Gorilla Glass 5, while the chassis is made from plastic, and the mix is just right when you consider the price. The glass feels high quality, and the plastic frame feels durable. Add the IP67 water and dust resistance, and the Galaxy A54 should withstand some fairly tough everyday treatment. It’s not slippery in your hand, and although it’s fairly weighty, you never feel like it’s about to make a bid for freedom.
Anything that’s not so good? The flat screen is more reflective than I like, and it does get quite smeary, as does the glass on the back. The bezels around the screen are fairly prominent, but this is to be expected on a phone at this level, and the fingerprint sensor is set quite low on the screen. None of these are dealbreakers.
Andy Boxall/Digital Trends I’ve found the Galaxy A54 to be very easy to live with — from the phone’s size and dimensions to the way it feels in your hand, particularly the smooth taper where the chassis and glass meet to minimize any sharpness. It’s thoughtfully designed, has decent durability, and looks much like a phone that costs quite a lot more.
Oh, and it comes in two of the best colors seen on a phone in ages. What’s not to like? Samsung Galaxy A54: screen Andy Boxall/Digital Trends There’s not a huge amount of difference between the Galaxy A54 and Galaxy A53’s screen technology, apart from one particular feature. The maximum brightness has been increased to 1,000 nits compared to the A53’s 800-nit maximum, and the difference is very noticeable. Like the Galaxy S23 Ultra , the Galaxy A54’s screen jumps to its maximum in very bright conditions, and it makes it much easier to view. It’s immediately noticeable, particularly when taking photos outdoors, and a considerable benefit.
Outside of this, it’s a 6.4-inch Super AMOLED screen with a 120Hz refresh rate and HDR10+ certification, and it looks great with Samsung’s signature strong colors and contrast on display.
Andy Boxall/Digital Trends The high refresh rate is extremely important, and when you’ve tried a phone with a 90Hz or 120Hz refresh rate, you will never want to go back to a 60Hz refresh rate. It makes scrolling through the operating system, apps, and games smoother and easier on the eyes. At this price, don’t accept a phone without it.
Video and games look great, but special mention should go to the stereo speakers.
Video and games look great, but special mention should go to the stereo speakers. They have a very pleasant sound and provided you hold the phone in a way that doesn’t block them in landscape orientation, they project sound towards you really effectively. Great sound makes a real difference to a phone, and they genuinely enhance the Galaxy A54’s multimedia capability.
Samsung Galaxy A54: software and performance Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Android 13 with One UI 5.1 is installed on the Galaxy A54, which is the same software you’ll find on the latest Galaxy S23 series, with the March 1, 2023, security patch at the time of writing. Samsung’s software update commitment is excellent; the Galaxy A54 will receive major updates for the next four years and security updates for the next five years.
I really like One UI, mostly because it’s smooth, fast, and for the most part, non-intrusive. There are plenty of features hidden inside, but they’re the right kind of features — such as the edge panel to show recent apps, routines that prompt actions based on your use and location, and access to Samsung’s Labs feature where you can experiment with different modes that are still in beta.
There’s nothing that feels overly superfluous, and if there is anything that’s a bit of a gimmick, it’s not shoved in your face until you’re forced to find a way for it to disappear. All my apps run without a problem, and it doesn’t appear to have restricted use drastically in order to conserve battery life. The setup is a little long-winded, with prompts to sign in with a Samsung account and advice to download unwanted apps, but that’s all. Calls sound good, I’ve had no problems with connectivity, and it pulls in a 5G signal without issue.
Performance comes from Samsung’s own Exynos 1380 processor, which is backed up by either 6GB or 8GB of RAM and 128GB or 256GB of internal storage space, plus there’s space for a MicroSD card too. It’s not blazing fast like the Galaxy S23 or the OnePlus 11 , and the animations when opening apps and scrolling through the phone are a tiny bit ponderous, but it never feels slow.
 It’s perfectly fine for normal use, including games. I’ve played Asphalt 9: Legends enough to spot any slowdown or stutter, but there’s no evidence of anything that would spoil your enjoyment.
Andy Boxall/Digital Trends It’s not faultless, though. The camera app isn’t very fast at all, especially shooting in low light compared to other devices. It can also take a beat to react when you’re trying to multi-task, which can be frustrating. However, it’s not really made to do anything too strenuous. That said, I’m not convinced there’s much room for growth inside the Exynos 1380, so if you think your phone use will increase or you’ll want to play more power-intensive games in the future, it may not be able to keep up.
This is when a phone like the OnePlus 11 makes sense. It’s more money at $699, but not so much more that it could be considered out of reach. The specification means it’s far more future-proof than the Galaxy A54. It also brings the $599 Google Pixel 7 into play, as it is also more powerful and far better than the A54 when it comes to the camera, which we’ll talk about next.
Samsung Galaxy A54: camera Andy Boxall/Digital Trends The Galaxy A54’s main camera has 50 megapixels and optical image stabilization (OIS), and it sits in between a 12MP wide-angle camera and a 5MP macro camera on the back of the phone. The (useless) depth camera from the Galaxy A53’s setup has been removed, and the overall design is cleaner and more attractive. The video mode shoots up to 4K resolution at 30 frames per second, and it now has digital image stabilization and intelligent reframing if it notices something happening at the edge of the frame.
Photos taken with the Galaxy A54 are likely to cause controversy. Samsung has long been associated with overly saturated colors, and it seems to have embraced this reputation with the Galaxy A54. The colors on display sometimes border on the insane, with reds, blues, and greens all amplified to a state that’s often out of control. I like a photo that pops, but not one that threatens to make my eyeballs explode with its intensity.
Previous Next 1 17 Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Wide-angle Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Wide-angle Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends 2x Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Night mode Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Night mode Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Night mode Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Portrait mode Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Portrait mode Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends 2x Andy Boxall/Digital Trends It can rob the Galaxy A54’s camera of realism, and because photos look relatively normal when the weather is a bit grey, the sudden retina-scorching colors in photos when the sun comes out are even more jarring. I don’t hate it, but it would benefit from a little toning down. I can see the A54’s sunny day performance appealing to those who love applying the most amped-up filter they can find on their photos, though. However, anyone who values natural tones and realism will, I suspect, absolutely hate it.
Put it against the Nothing Phone 1 , and you can see where Samsung increases the saturation, taking it slightly beyond even the very color-orientated Phone 1’s camera. Results vary between the two when comparing the wide-angle cameras, too, with the Nothing Phone 1 providing more consistent shots.
Previous Next 1 8 Galaxy A54 main camera Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Nothing Phone 1 main camera Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Galaxy A54 wide-angle Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Nothing Phone 1 wide-angle Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Galaxy A54 main camera Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Nothing Phone 1 main camera Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Galaxy A54 main camera Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Nothing Phone 1 main camera Andy Boxall/Digital Trends The Galaxy A54’s camera is good, but it struggles with consistency and a lack of realism, while the selfie camera — despite having 32MP — doesn’t show much detail and washes faces out in difficult lighting.
If the camera really matters, and you don’t want to spend $1,000 or more, then consider the Google Pixel 7. It takes far superior and much more realistic photos than the Galaxy A54, and it’s more versatile too. The phone itself is a bigger question mark, as although I’ve had a great experience with Google’s latest phone, others have not been so lucky.
Samsung Galaxy A54: battery and charging Andy Boxall/Digital Trends The Galaxy A54’s battery life has been a little disappointing, especially considering it’s a 5,000mAh cell inside the phone, and it’s not having to work all that hard to run the hardware. My daily use time hasn’t stretched much beyond three hours, with some days connected to a Galaxy Watch 5 Pro , and the battery consistently has less than 40% remaining in the late evening.
That’s not enough for two days’ use, and if you push the phone much harder, a full day is all you’ll get. Getting two days of battery out of the far more powerful Galaxy S23 Ultra is easy, and the Galaxy A54 really should be matching this, if not exceeding it. Considering the modest specification and the size of the battery, the reason it’s not lasting very long may come down to the efficiency of the Exynos processor.
Previous Next 1 3 Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Battery consumption varies, with watching 30 minutes of YouTube only taking 3% from the battery, and less than 10% after 30 minutes of gaming, which are both typical. But an hour’s WhatsApp video call over Wi-Fi saw more than 20% disappear. It makes judging the Galaxy A54’s daily performance a challenge.
You don’t get a charger in the box so you’ll have to use an existing one, or buy a Samsung-specific version. The phone will charge at speeds up to 25W. I’ve used the Anker 313 GaN charger and cable, which supports Samsung’s Super Fast Charging at up to 45W, and it takes 75 minutes to recharge the battery. After 30 minutes, the battery reaches around 65%, which should be enough for a day of modest use. Use a non-compatible charger, and it can take up to two hours to fully charge the Galaxy A54, plus the phone does not have wireless charging.
Samsung Galaxy A54: price and availability Andy Boxall/Digital Trends The 6GB RAM/128GB Samsung Galaxy A54 is available to buy now for $450 through Samsung’s own online store, plus various carriers — including AT&T, T-Mobile, U.S. Cellular, and Verizon. It appears only the Violet and Graphite versions are available in the U.S. at the moment, and only the 6GB/128GB version is listed.
In the U.K., the 6GB/128GB version costs 449 British pounds, or around $561, and the 8GB/256GB version is 499 pounds, which is about $624. It’s available through various retailers and networks, plus Samsung’s online store, where all four colors are listed.
The Galaxy A54 is a very safe, sensible buy, even with its downsides.
The Galaxy A54’s price puts it against the Google Pixel 6a , which is a very good phone but is in imminent danger of being replaced by the rumored Google Pixel 7a.
 It’s cheaper than the cheapest competing Apple iPhone, the $599 iPhone 12 , and superior to the aging iPhone SE (2022).
 The Galaxy A54 is a very safe, sensible buy, even with its downsides.
Samsung Galaxy A54: verdict Andy Boxall/Digital Trends / Digital Trends The Galaxy A54 has been my daily device with my main SIM card inside, so it has been called into action on everything from GPS navigation to photos, chats, calls, games, and app browsing. Nothing special about that, but I have been using it alongside the Apple iPhone 14 Pro and the Galaxy S23 Ultra.
I find that if a phone I’m reviewing has notable downsides or frustrations, I’ll reach for the other phones I have with me at the time just because I don’t want to deal with them. Despite the strength of the other devices in my bag, the Galaxy A54 hasn’t prompted me to grab either of its far more expensive peers. I’ve not even made a point of using the A54 — I just used it.
That speaks volumes about the A54’s ability and software.
This is a great phone let down slightly by its disappointing battery life, the camera’s performance is sure to split opinions and I’m not sure there’s much more performance to give, raising questions about its longevity. It’s a shame when the phone’s software commitment is so strong. However, take the quality, software, durability, and design into account, and the Galaxy A54 becomes very appealing.
This brings me on to that important consideration and the question you must ask yourself before buying the Galaxy A54. It’s excellent, but if you spend a little more, the next steps up — the OnePlus 11, Google Pixel 7, and even a Galaxy S23 if you can find it on offer — are seriously good. They’ll also last you a lot longer than the Galaxy A54 on a hardware level, meaning the extra initial cost will be offset in the future. It’s a hard decision, but if you don’t want to spend more, the Galaxy A54 is a safe purchase you won’t regret, provided your requirements don’t change over time.
Editors' Recommendations The best Samsung Galaxy S23 Plus cases: 21 you can’t ignore Best tablet deals: Save on iPad, Galaxy Tab, Fire tablet, and more Best Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 5 deals: How to get the phone for free Best Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra deals: How to get the phone for free The Samsung Galaxy S24 just leaked with a few big surprises Phone Reviews Product Reviews Samsung Mobile With the launch of its predecessor, it's the best time to hunt for discounts on the Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 4. It's not going away any time soon because it's still a very fun and capable mobile device, so there will be a lot of demand for savings when buying the foldable smartphone. We've gathered the top ways of getting the Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 4 for cheaper than usual, but you'll have to hurry with your purchase because these offers may disappear at any moment.
Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 4 deals at Samsung The obvious source for a Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 4 is Samsung, which is offering trade-in credit of up to $725 for an unlocked 256GB model of the smartphone that normally costs $1,800. However, you can get it at $800 off, so you'll only have to pay $1,000, if you buy it with a U.S. Cellular plan.
Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 4 deals at Amazon The unlocked 256GB Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 4 is on Amazon for its retail price of $1,800, but why would you get that model when the unlocked 512GB Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 4 is cheaper at just $1,450, following a $470 discount on its original price of $1,920? It's a no-brainer to go for the version with the larger storage capacity when it's more affordable.
Mobile It's not Samsung's latest flagship smartphone, but the Samsung Galaxy S22 is still a great mobile device, especially if you can get it with a discount from your preferred retailer. If you're looking to save big on phone deals and you don't mind going for a previous-generation model, then you should check out these offers for the Samsung Galaxy S22. They may change or disappear entirely at any moment though, so you're going to have to make your purchase quickly if something catches your eye.
Samsung Galaxy S22 deals at Samsung Samsung will be the first place to go to if you're looking for discounts on the Samsung Galaxy S22. The unlocked version of the 128GB model is still going for its retail price of $700, but you can get up to $635 off by trading in your current smartphone. You can get this variant of the Samsung Galaxy S22 for just $550 for savings of $150, but only if you purchase it for use on the Verizon network.
Mobile Samsung is one of the most recognizable names in modern smartphones. It has a well-deserved reputation for offering an expansive lineup of great phones with something for just about everyone. This means if you're looking for an Android phone, you'll easily find a Samsung model that's worth considering based on your needs and budget. In fact, the number of choices can be a bit overwhelming, but the good news is that we've explored the entire range and highlighted the best Samsung smartphones you can buy in 2023.
Like its predecessor, the Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra gets the nod for the best overall Samsung phone, and that's not just because it's Samsung's premium flagship device. Sure, it's the most expensive phone in the lineup, but you're getting some incredible bang for your buck with its large and gorgeous display, excellent cameras, and a new processor that offers unprecedented levels of performance. And if you're looking for something more unique, more pocketable, or more affordable, you'll find a lot of other great options on our list in every category, with links to detailed reviews for each.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
