Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 4 review: so good, it should be your next phone By Andy Boxall Close $1,800.00 Usable cover screen Excellent multitasking features Inner screen is great for games and video Reliable and fun camera Water resistant and durable materials Heavy use kills the battery Slow charging Lazy old Samsung barely changed the Galaxy Z Fold 4 over the Galaxy Z Fold 3 , right? It’s very easy to think this after a quick glance at the design or a side-by-side check of the stats, but don’t judge this book by its cover (screen), as Samsung’s many small alterations add up to something far greater.
Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 4: design Galaxy Z Fold 4: screens Galaxy Z Fold 4: camera Galaxy Z Fold 4: software and performance Galaxy Z Fold 4: battery and charging Comparing the Z Fold 4 to other foldables in 2023 How is the Z Fold 4’s software in 2023? Galaxy Z Fold 4: price and availability Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 4: verdict Yes, greater.
 The Z Fold 4 is really the first time the biggest Samsung folding smartphone can be recommended to most people, and if you invest in one, it has the power and ability to remain in use for years. Here’s why it’s such a big step forward.
Fixing your broken Samsung phone is about to get easier Best Samsung Galaxy Z Flip 5 deals: Get the foldable for free The best Samsung phones in 2023: our 8 favorite Galaxy handsets Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 4: design Andrew Martonik/Digital Trends Not quite as tall and not quite as slim. That’s the basic main takeaway regarding the Galaxy Z Fold 4 compared to the Galaxy Z Fold 3, but to leave it at that is a disservice to the differences the millimeter-tight changes make. When closed, gripping the Z Fold 4 isn’t quite like holding a non-folding phone, but it’s not far off. When you compare on-screen keyboards, the Z Fold 4’s letters are a few extra pixels wide, yet I’ve found typing to be faster and more accurate on the Z Fold 4. It’s also great that Google’s Gboard keyboard has joined Samsung’s own with a split view.
I didn’t have a problem using the Z Fold 3 closed , but there’s no doubt it’s a better, more conventional experience on the Z Fold 4. The aspect ratio change doesn’t squash everything into that odd vertical-letterbox look anywhere nearly as much, and that means reading text, looking at Instagram, and just doing regular phone things isn’t as compromised as before. The 3mm or so that has been added to the Cover Screen may not sound like much at all, but it has genuinely made the phone more usable when closed.
Previous Next 1 6 Joe Maring/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Samsung explained that the changes to the size of the phone were made possible in part by a new hinge design.
 My Z Fold 3 is a year old, and the hinge has settled into a very pleasant, dampened motion after starting off pretty stiff. The Z Fold 4 has also started out life with less “give” than I’d like, but it’s likely to loosen up just like the Z Fold 3. It’s soundless, with no audible grinding or anything awful like that, and there’s a nice thunk when the phone snaps closed. If Samsung hadn’t explained what’s different about the hinge, I don’t think I’d have known it had changed based on feel alone, and that’s a good thing.
However, you’re still dealing with a very thick and heavy phone. It’s 263 grams and 15.8mm thick when closed, so it weighs your pocket down, and it’s always obvious when it’s in a bag. But again, it’s not as hefty as the Z Fold 3. In all aspects of its physical shape and size, the Z Fold 4 is a considerable step forward over its predecessor. While I think the changes make the Z Fold 4 more accessible, they may not be extensive enough to convert detractors or those who disliked the Z Fold 3. It’s different, but not drastically so.
Previous Next 1 4 Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends I’ll admit it, I’m a folding phone convert. I’ll live with the increased thickness and weight because opening the phone up and using the large screen to browse the web, watch videos, read books, edit photos, and scroll through Twitter is a fantastic experience because the same device then folds down to fit in my pocket. It’s hugely freeing, and I find it more convenient than carrying other non-folding, but still massive phones like the Galaxy S23 Ultra or iPhone 14 Pro Max around.
I love the little things about it, too, like the way you can fold it so it becomes its own stand for watching videos and how wonderfully sharp the screen is for reading magazines and ebooks. It’s understandable if you’re not convinced, but if you haven’t tried the Galaxy Z Fold 4 for yourself but are becoming more intrigued, go out and give it a try. This may just be the one that convinces you that large-screen foldables are ready for the mainstream.
Galaxy Z Fold 4: screens Andy Boxall/Digital Trends On the outside is a 6.2-inch Dynamic AMOLED screen with a 2316 x 904 resolution, a 120Hz refresh rate, and a 23.1:9 aspect ratio. Open the phone, and you get a 7.6-inch Dynamic AMOLED, also with a 120Hz refresh rate, plus a 2176 x 1812 resolution. The refresh rate for the open screen varies between 1Hz and 120Hz, while the cover screen varies between 48Hz and 120Hz.
The smaller bezels around the cover screen and alterations to the shape of the phone have made it far more usable and are integral to the improved design and usability of the phone. The inside screen is where you go to watch videos, play games, read books, view and edit photos, and multitask. The good news is the new shape has made it more usable here, too. I’ve had no problem with brightness when using the phone outside, although the inner screen is quite reflective.
What about the crease? It’s still there, but the rippling around it has been reduced, so it’s not quite so visibly obvious anymore. It has remained consistent months into use and hasn’t become more prominent. This applies to when the screen is on and off. I’ve noticed “not noticing” when using the open screen on the Z Fold 4 many times already, and the concave dip when running your finger across it is a tiny bit less dramatic too.
Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Asphalt 9: Legends looks fantastic, full of vibrant color, and with no blur or slow-down at all. Video also looks sharp and packed with detail. Just remember to check the brightness, because the phone has a habit of setting it a little too low to really enjoy the picture. App support for the large screen is good, but there are things to get used to. For example, Instagram still doesn’t use the whole screen, while YouTube doesn’t adopt the excellent tablet view from the iPad and is just a big-print version of the mobile app — making choosing videos a laborious task.
All Samsung apps and the core Google apps are really slick, though, and there’s something supremely satisfying about starting out in an app on the cover screen and seamlessly swapping to the other screen when you open the Z Fold 4. For it to operate the other way around, you have to go into Settings and manually force apps to continue on the Cover Screen from the inner screen. By default, they are all disabled, and closing the phone is very final , as the screen shuts off.
And, yes, the Galaxy Z Fold 4’s unique design makes it a perfect Kindle replacement.
Galaxy Z Fold 4: camera Andy Boxall/Digital Trends The Galaxy Z Fold 4 has a 50-megapixel main camera, a 12MP 123-degree wide-angle camera, and a 10MP telephoto camera with 3x optical zoom and 30x maximum digital zoom. Video records at up to 8K at 24 frames per second (fps, with the option of 4K at 30 or 60 fps. Plus, there’s Samsung’s excellent Super Steady video stabilization. There’s a Pro mode for stills and video, a night mode, Single Take, and portrait mode on the main and selfie camera.
I find the combination of a strong main camera, a good wide-angle, and 3x optical zoom to be just right, and the Z Fold 4 takes excellent photos with all three. It’s vibrant and colorful without being overly saturated, the wide-angle remains mostly consistent with a slightly stronger HDR effect, and the 3x telephoto pictures contain a lot of detail and no obvious digital enhancements. Portrait mode works really well, with fantastic edge recognition, while night mode is also good but not all that different in performance from the Z Fold 3.
The main camera has a more natural look than the Z Fold 3’s, with less saturation and far better balance. The wide-angle camera takes more detailed, better-exposed, and more attractive photos. I’ve found I want to edit the photos the Z Fold 4 takes less than the ones taken on the Z Fold 3, and have been confident in its abilities when out taking pictures. It can’t match the S23 Ultra’s 10x optical zoom, but it’s an otherwise strong competitor as a fantastic all-rounder for both casual photographers and those who want a little more ability.
1.
Wide-angle 2.
Main 3.
3x zoom What’s not so good? The main camera isn’t great at taking close-ups and fails to focus properly if the subject is too near the camera. And while the telephoto camera can zoom to 30x, it’s difficult to recommend. Unless you want to take pixelated, obviously digitally enhanced photos of poor quality, you won’t want to bother.
The Under Display Camera (UDC) has 4MP and is really no better than the one fitted to the Z Fold 3. It returns a soft image during video calls and is far less sharp than the 10MP selfie camera on the cover screen. Samsung claims to have made the UDC camera less noticeable too, but to my eyes, it’s essentially the same. You can spot it when you look for it, but it’s never bothersome.
Previous Next 1 17 Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Wide-angle Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Wide-angle Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Night mode Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Night mode Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Portrait Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Portrait Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends 30x zoom Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Front camera selfie Andy Boxall/Digital Trends UDC selfie Andy Boxall/Digital Trends While you’ll probably use the camera from the cover screen most of the time, there’s an advantage to using the camera with the Z Fold 4 open. It’s called Capture View, and it shows the viewfinder and controls on the right and a vertical gallery view on the left. It’s really helpful to immediately see the photos you’ve taken in busy, action-packed situations, or even to check the quality of your selfie. The cover screen can be called into action when using the phone open like this, allowing your subject to see themselves when you’re taking a photo, or for you to use the rear camera for selfies.
The Z Fold 4’s camera is very good and a definite improvement over the one on the Z Fold 3. I’ve been able to rely on it, and think the natural-but-color-filled photos will satisfy those who don’t like extreme saturation levels, while still looking good enough to share online without drastic editing. The software is fast and packed with features, and the app makes good use of the multiple screens and layouts. You’ll have a lot of fun with the Z Fold 4’s camera.
Galaxy Z Fold 4: software and performance Andy Boxall/Digital Trends The Galaxy Z Fold 4 started out with Google’s Android 12L software, which has been made with larger screens in mind, and Samsung’s own OneUI 4.1.1 interface. Android 12L isn’t drastically different from regular Android 12, and Samsung hasn’t integrated the two-column Quick Settings layout, which is the most obvious visual change. It has since been updated to Android 13 (which includes all Android 12L enhancements) and OneUI 5.1. Powering the phone is a Qualcomm Snapdragon 8+ Gen 1 processor with 12GB of RAM and your choice of 256GB, 512GB, or 1TB of internal storage space.
One of the main new features is the Taskbar, which, as its name suggests, is like the Windows Taskbar or MacOS’s Dock, as it adds app icons to the bottom of the screen when the phone is open. It’s designed to quickly switch between apps, and it does indeed perform this task very well. The problem is, so does the helicopter view when you swipe up on the screen, and Samsung’s ever-present slide-in smart bar.
While it’s well implemented, it feels superfluous for switching apps at first, but do give it a try because it’s faster than any of the other systems, with apps switching practically instantly. It’s also helpful when multitasking, as the icons show notification numbers. The layout mirrors the main Android dock, so it’s easy to put important apps there and always be alerted if there are notifications waiting.
Multitasking is a big part of what makes the Z Fold 4 so compelling.
Using multiple apps at the same time on the inner screen is one of the standout advantages of the Z Fold 4. It’s very easy to get started: just tap and hold an app from the Taskbar or the Smart bar, then slide it onto the screen, where it automatically reorients around the already running apps. Three apps can run alongside each other, plus some apps can float over the top for a fourth app. And they all remain perfectly usable (just a bit small) when you do it. It’s really well implemented and genuinely makes the unfolded Z Fold 4 a phone that gets a lot of things done quickly and without fuss.
Previous Next 1 7 Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andrew Martonik/Digital Trends Andrew Martonik/Digital Trends Andrew Martonik/Digital Trends Andrew Martonik/Digital Trends Andrew Martonik/Digital Trends It’s a credit to both the software and the Snapdragon 8+ Gen 1 that the phone handles four-app multitasking with ease. With a multiperson Teams call running and Twitter on the other side of the screen, all while connected to a pair of Galaxy Buds 2 Pro , the phone didn’t get hot at all. It did put some strain on the battery, though, which we will come back to shortly. Multitasking is a big part of what makes the Z Fold 4 so compelling, as the experience is refined and simple, and the inside screen has the size and quality to make using more than one app at a time actually worthwhile.
I’ve been consistently impressed with the Snapdragon 8+ Gen 1, ever since early phones like the Asus Zenfone 9 , the ROG Phone 6 Pro , and the iQoo 9T.
 It’s clearly more efficient than the 8 Gen 1 and handles the strain of top-tier gaming and higher ambient temperatures better too. It doesn’t seem to get as hot in general, and that helps it cope with the demands put on it by the phone’s sheer ability. It has been superseded at the top of the range by the Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 since the Z Fold 4’s release, but don’t let that put you off. Both are immensely capable. I have had no problem with the Z Fold 4’s 5G connectivity or Bluetooth, and call quality has been very good.
Galaxy Z Fold 4: battery and charging Andy Boxall/Digital Trends There’s a dual-cell 4,400 mAh battery inside the Galaxy Z Fold 4, and at the moment, it is the weakest part of this otherwise superb package. Early on, hard use saw the battery run out of power before the end of a full day, after a combination of apps, video calls, GPS, and camera use, with a total of just under four hours of screen time. A one-hour video call with some multitasking during it took the battery down by 20%, while a morning of 5G connectivity, photos, and GPS took about half the battery life with it.
Since then it has settled down, and changes to the software have made it more efficient, but don’t expect much more than a full day if you push it hard. Without playing games and with around three hours of screen time, it can stretch out to the end of a second working day though. But when the phone is this capable and so obviously built for media and multitasking, it probably won’t happen very often. Also remember that if you’ve just bought the phone and are frustrated by the battery life, in my experience it will get better, as Samsung phones can take about two weeks to settle down as it learns your use patterns.
Previous Next 1 3 Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andrew Martonik/Digital Trends You don’t get a charger in the box with the phone (but you do get a USB Type-C cable), and the Z Fold 4 supports 25-watt charging. A compatible charger took 88 minutes to recharge from 1% to full. The phone also supports wireless charging at a lower wattage, and the Wireless PowerShare feature will charge a Qi-compatible device placed on the back of the Z Fold 4 too.
The slow charging speed is a disappointment. While the U.S. may be slightly behind the curve with truly rapid charging, with only OnePlus pushing the boundaries , the rest of the world is used to more phones charging to full in 30 minutes or less, which is a feature that’s available on devices that cost a third of the Galaxy Z Fold 4’s price. The shorter-than-ideal battery life will make the slow charging more of an issue for some.
Comparing the Z Fold 4 to other foldables in 2023 Oppo Find N2 (left) and Galaxy Z Fold 4 (right) Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Since the Galaxy Z Fold 4 was released, several competitors have emerged, although not many are available in the U.S. directly. How has the Z Fold 4 fared against them, and what about its future? Soon after the Z Fold 4’s release, I tested the camera against the Galaxy Z Fold 3 to better understand the improvements, and the new model went on to win five out of the seven categories. Changes to the Image Signal Processor (ISP) and the chipset helped make the most of the new cameras.
It was interesting to use the Oppo Find N2 , which has a shorter, wider design than the Z Fold 4, offering a different perspective on big-screen foldables. It’s this design that Google has adopted for the Pixel Fold — arguably the Z Fold 4’s most significant challenger yet — as it’ll actually be available in the U.S. We’d recommend waiting for reviews before leaping on a Pixel Fold, though.
In the U.K., you can buy the Honor Magic Vs , which is a little cheaper than the Z Fold 4, but after using them back-to-back , it’s easy to advise spending more to get the Z Fold 4.
Previous Next 1 6 Tecno Phantom V Fold (left) and Galaxy Z Fold (right) displays Prakhar Khanna / Digital Trends Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 4 (left) and Tecno Phantom V Fold (right) Prakhar Khanna / Digital Trends Samsung Galaxy Z Flip 4 (left) and Oppo Find N2 Flip (right) Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Honor Magic Vs (left) and Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 4 (right) Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Honor Magic Vs (left) and Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 4 (right) Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Huawei Mate Xs 2 (left) and Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 4 (right) Andy Boxall/Digital Trends The Huawei Mate Xs 2 is also another consideration, and it folds in the opposite way to the Z Fold 4, opening outwards so its cover screen also becomes the main screen. The phone’s hardware is excellent, but the phone’s software requires some patience and doesn’t have the Google Play Store. Elsewhere, I was impressed by the significantly cheaper Tecno Phantom V Fold and how much promise it showed, while others have even preferred it to the Z Fold 4 in some ways. However, for me, none have come close to matching the Galaxy Z Fold 4 for consistency or ease of use, and can’t match all the important durability features either.
Going back to the Galaxy Z Fold 4 in June 2023 was a wonderful experience, and it still has all the appeal it did when it launched in 2022. Samsung only needs to work on refining the winning formula for the Galaxy Z Fold 5 , and it’ll still likely be streets ahead of the others. In the meantime, the Galaxy Z Fold 4 remains a great purchase in 2023, but we’d say right now it’s wise to see how the Pixel Fold does when it’s reviewed — and to see what the Galaxy Z Fold 5 brings in updates — before buying one.
How is the Z Fold 4’s software in 2023? Andy Boxall/Digital Trends / Digital Trends I’ve been using the Galaxy Z Fold 4 since its release, and the good news is it continues to be a reliable, capable, and exciting everyday phone. It received an update to the One UI 5 software early on and is currently running the latest OneUI 5.1 version, complete with the May 2023 security patch. The Z Fold 4 is not only fully up to date but feels fresh too, and the strong software support from Samsung (it will receive four years of major updates from the time of its launch) is a reason to buy — and something that far surpasses the competition.
At the end of 2022, the Z Fold 4 received an update so it can use Samsung’s Expert RAW app, meaning you can take photos in RAW format and then edit them in the Adobe Lightroom app. This is one of the major attractions of the Galaxy S23 Ultra , and you don’t have to be an expert to enjoy the feature , so don’t be put off by the name. Additionally, a further update has added an Astrophotography mode to the Expert RAW app on the Z Fold 4. It’s great to see new, enjoyable features being added on a regular basis.
Previous Next 1 7 Andy Boxall/DigitalTrends Andy Boxall/DigitalTrends Andy Boxall/DigitalTrends Andy Boxall/DigitalTrends Andy Boxall/DigitalTrends Andy Boxall/DigitalTrends Andy Boxall/DigitalTrends The Z Fold 4’s camera is a lot of fun and is still versatile enough to hold its own in 2023. Sure, the photos are full of color in that typical Samsung way, but it’s impossible not to smile at the way they pop off the screen. Some more recent camera samples can be seen in the gallery above.
Over the months I’ve been using the Z Fold 4, I’ve been using features specific to it in fun ways , while others have really dug deep to get the most from the unfolded big screen.
 The Galaxy Z Fold 4 is every bit a modern, capable flagship smartphone in 2023.
Galaxy Z Fold 4: price and availability Andy Boxall/Digital Trends / Digital Trends The Galaxy Z Fold 4 starts at $1,799 for the 256GB version, then increases to $1,920 for the 512GB model, before reaching $2,160 for the top 1TB version. In the U.K., the 256GB phone costs 1,649 British pounds, while you’ll pay 1,769 pounds for the 512GB model and 2,019 pounds for the top 1TB model. There are three main colors: Phantom Black, beige, and Greygreen. Samsung sells an through its own store.
Although expensive, Samsung has generous trade-in offers. There are often strong discounts at carriers and retailers out there, so it’s absolutely worth doing your research before buying, as it’s possible to reduce the initially high price quite considerably.
Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 4: verdict Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Small changes make a big difference. On paper, nothing about the Galaxy Z Fold 4 screams “huge upgrade” over the Z Fold 3, and it’s easy to assume it’s just an iterative update that doesn’t solve any of the issues people have with big folding smartphones. But that’s not the case. The small changes to the shape, weight, and specifications have made it a far more realistic everyday device for a lot more people, provided you can get past the high price. Even then, there’s actually good value here when you consider the longevity offered by the hardware and software.
The Galaxy Z Fold 4 looks and feels futuristic and contains cutting-edge tech, but that cannot be said about the battery and charging. It charges slowly compared to many other current phones, and there’s a very real likelihood of the battery running out before the end of the day if you use the phone as it demands to be used. Both these aspects will make it difficult for some people to truly exploit its massive ability.
There are fewer compromises here than with its predecessors, the work that has gone into making the phone’s design more compliant and usable is really impressive, and fears over durability have largely been removed. The software is regularly updated and has matured nicely, with most apps and services working cohesively across both screens. And because of the long-term support updates that come from Samsung and Google’s ongoing partnership, the Z Fold 4 will keep feeling fresh for years to come.
Even with the shorter-than-desired battery life, the Galaxy Z Fold 4 is the most complete, does-everything-will-last-for-years mobile device you can buy today.
Editors' Recommendations The best folding phones in 2023: the 6 best you can buy Best Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 5 deals: How to get the phone for free Best Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 4 deals: Save big on the foldable New Galaxy Z Fold 5 and Flip 5 features are heading to older devices Is the Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 5 waterproof? Phone Reviews Product Reviews Samsung Mobile If you're in the market for a folding phone, the Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 5 is one of the best you can buy. It's powered by a Qualcomm Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 chip (customized for Samsung) and features a sleeker build and brighter display, among other improvements, compared to its predecessor. The Galaxy Z Fold 5 also gets support for an improved S Pen and better multitasking abilities with support for up to four apps simultaneously.
Besides its productivity features, the Galaxy Z Fold's expansive inner screen also makes it an excellent device for entertainment and gaming. Samsung says the inner folding display gets as bright as 1,750 nits -- the brightest ever on any Galaxy Z Fold series device. This ensures the display delivers clear and well-defined output, irrespective of how challenging the ambient lighting may be. For purists looking to consume media on this large screen, one question remains: does the Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 5 have a 3.5mm headphone jack? Mobile Folding phones are the future, and flip smartphones like the Samsung Galaxy Z Flip 5 are likely to be the folding form factor of choice for many people. It's not hard to see why, as Samsung's newest flip phone has everything we loved about the Samsung Galaxy Z Flip 4 while adding a larger outer screen and a hinge that finally folds completely flat. It's a stunning piece of hardware, and the displays are absolutely the linchpin of what makes it great — whether we're talking about the internal folding screen, or the outer display that's now much larger and can do so much more.
But two screens comes with their own hazards, specifically, the risk of breakages. While the inner screen is relatively protected while folded, accidents do happen, and they can lead to an expensive repair bill. Thankfully, screen protectors exist to add more protection to your valuable smartphone. Here are six of the best Samsung Galaxy Z Flip 5 screen protectors you can buy right now. Also, make sure you double up on your protection by adding one of the best Samsung Galaxy Z Flip 5 cases as well.
Mobile Folding flip phones are quickly becoming more and more prevalent, and the Samsung Galaxy Z Flip 5 is one of the best you can get in 2023. Samsung made a couple of big improvements with the Flip 5 over its predecessor — including a new hinge that lets the phone close fully shut, plus a larger cover screen that allows you to do more without having to open the phone.
The improved hinge and the new display on the Galaxy Z Flip 5 sure make the clamshell phone desirable. On top of that, Samsung's proactive approach with frequent software updates -- and the promise of four Android platform upgrades and five years of security updates -- make the Flip 5 highly desirable to those who wish for a compact and swanky phone. Starting at just a penny short of $1,000, the Galaxy Z Flip 5 is also one of the lightest purchases on the pocket for anyone who wants to try folding smartphones.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
