Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Way to Hire Employees Highest Paying Jobs Best Business Laptops What is RingCentral? Best VPN Best Job Search Sites Home Computing Guides Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best VoIP services for 2022 By Jon Martindale Close Voice over Internet Protocol, or VoIP, is a popular alternative to landlines, especially in the business world. VoIP providers deliver digital telephone services that rely on the internet for voice and video calls. The main advantages of VoIP are that you can make long-distance calls at a very affordable price and benefit from a faster connection compared to a traditional landline.
RingCentral Ooma Office Nextiva GoTo Connect 8×8 A VoIP service is worth considering if you run a small business or make a lot of international phone calls, but comparing different VoIP providers can be challenging if you’re not familiar with the technology. We’ve compared different VoIP services to help you find the best provider to fit your needs.
RingCentral Image used with permission by copyright holder Cloud or Integrated Phone: Both Clients Supported: Mac, Windows, iOS, Android Cost: From $20/month per user Users: 20 on Essentials tier, unlimited for higher tiers Third-party integrations: Yes (some only available with upgraded plans) Free trial: Yes, plus free video messaging plan RingCentral is a California-based VoIP company with offices located around the world. Its network backbone also resides in the U.S., but you shouldn’t experience any increased lag due to the company’s primary location. It’s one of the most well-reviewed VoIP services available, offering prices that make it hotly competitive with contemporaries.
Best 17-inch laptop deals: Big savings on big screens Best Buy laptop deals: Cheap laptops starting at $169 The best October Prime Day MacBook deals available now RingCentral is particularly well-suited for the average business, with all the helpful features that a business needs. This includes unlimited calling and audio conferencing, toll-free numbers, and support for up to 20 users on its lowest-priced Essential plan. Higher priced plans add internet fax, unlimited users, video conferencing, automatic call recording, and many other useful features.
RingCentral claims that customers can have their office set up with the service in “minutes, not days.” Even if that’s a particularly hopeful estimate, there’s no denying that the company has a lot of practice connecting companies with the VoIP services they need, making it an easy recommendation.
As for the RingCentral price , subscriptions start at $20 per user per month for the “Essentials” package and go up to $60 per user per month for the “Ultimate” package, if you sign up for the annual plan (it costs more if you want to pay month-to-month). There’s also a free trial as well as a free RingCentral Video Pro plan for video conferences.
Ooma Office Image used with permission by copyright holder Why sign up Cloud or Integrated Phone: Both Clients Supported: Mac, Windows, iOS, Android Cost: From $20/month per user Users: Unlimited Third-party integrations: Yes, with Enterprise plans Free trial: No Ooma is a competitor to RingCentral that prides itself on flexibility as well as crystal-clear, encrypted calls thanks to its proprietary platform. For a low-volume call environment, you can start with just an IP phone that works like conventional landline phones. For as little as $60 per phone, users can make calls to U.S. numbers — even without a monthly VoIP service plan — and per-minute international calls, with support for voicemail and other standard telephone features.
For small business users who want a more traditional VoIP service, the Ooma Office service is available for $20 a month per user. The $25/month Office Pro service offers more features like video conferencing, a dedicated desktop app, call recording, and voicemail transcription. There are also even more advanced Enterprise plans for larger companies and high-volume business environments such as call centers.
Ooma even offers internet services, allowing you to bundle VoIP phone plans with Ooma Connect. You get a dedicated high-speed router that you can integrate into business solutions such as point-of-sale tools. Ooma’s flexibility and impressive number of service options make it a great VoIP choice not only for online enterprises but also for businesses that have physical locations such as brick-and-mortar stores or kiosks.
Nextiva Image used with permission by copyright holder Cloud or Integrated Phone: Both Clients Supported: Mac, Windows, browsers, iOS, Android Cost: From $12/month Users: Unlimited Third-party integrations: Yes (some only available with upgraded plans) Free trial: Yes, for Essentials plan If your business continues to grow and you want a larger service that caters more specifically to your professional needs, Nextiva is here to help. Rated the number one business VoIP solution for 2022, Nextiva provides a full-featured VoIP platform tailored for growing and larger companies. There are plenty of standard features like holding, forward, waiting, call transfers, and inbound caller ID. It also includes advanced features like multiple monitoring options, voicemail to email services, and online portals that administrators, IT specialists, and agents can use to control the service.
Additionally, a suite of mobile features allows you to operate mostly everything from mobile devices, enabling you to switch from the desktop client as needed. If your office requires more down-to-earth hardware, then Nextiva also offers direct sales of VoIP phones that are all compatible with its services. The software also integrates with many third-party workflow and business apps, but some of these are only available with upgraded plans.
Packages start at $12 per month per user for the standard Essentials package, which includes unlimited voice and video calling, voicemail-to-email transcription, and other basic features. Upgraded plans add extras like video conferencing, mobile SMS, extended third-party software integrations, and call analytics. Whichever plan you choose, the monthly price decreases as the number of lines goes up.
GoTo Connect LogMeIn Cloud or Integrated Phone: Both Clients Supported: Mac, Windows, iOS, Android Cost: From $26/month per user Users: 20 on Basic tier, unlimited for higher tiers Third-party integrations: Yes Free trial: Yes, for Standard plan GoTo Connect’s approach is especially friendly to small businesses, providing voice services that are of unlimited use, which means no surprise fees for exceeding your normal monthly usage. It’s also available in three price tiers that you can customize for the number of users, so businesses can scale the service as needed.
GoTo Connect, formerly Jive Voice, has all the features you want from a VoIP service, including call routing, phone number extensions, virtual voicemail, virtual faxing, screen sharing, and more. There are even more specific features for unique modern business situations such as Call Monitoring, which allows a supervisor to eavesdrop on a conversation and talk to the agent — ideal for call centers. Hot-desking switches to different desks or devices in a flatter, on-the-move organization.
Finally, the pricing is quite reasonable. The Standard tier (which offers the best features for the price) costs $21 per user per month when businesses have 50 or more on the plan. The price rises per user as the number of users drops, costing $35 per user per month for one to four users. If all you need is simple VoIP calling without a bunch of bells and whistles such as voicemail transcription, the Basic package starts at $26 per month per user, or as little as $19 if you have between 11 and 20 people on the plan.
8×8 8x8 Cloud or Integrated Phone: Both Clients Supported: Mac, Windows, iOS, Android Cost: From $15/month per user Users: 10 on Express tier, unlimited on higher tiers Third-party integrations: Yes (some only available with upgraded plans) Free trial: Yes, for Express plan 8×8 offers plans that are a great fit for small and mid-sized companies. Packages offer many VoIP features that we’ve already discussed, such as unlimited calling, auto attendants, call handling, intelligent call routing, and mobile compatibility that includes options for business texting. The basic Express plan allows for up to 10 users and is a great no-frills VoIP package for smaller businesses.
With the upgraded plans, 8×8 also adds integration with third-party sales and workflow apps including Slack, Microsoft Office, Salesforce, and Zendesk. This is a huge boon to businesses that are actively using CRM platforms to gather and organize their data. If CRM is particularly important to this phase of your business, 8×8 could be the best option for you. One downside to note is that some useful features, such as call recording and advanced analytics, are locked behind more expensive packages.
However, that’s generally par for the course with these VoIP services. The X2 plan is arguably the best value, giving you a nice balance of advanced features for what you pay. You’ll have to contact the company directly to get the best quote for your business, but costs tend to range between $15 and $44 per user per month for the VoIP packages. Enterprise plans for high-volume call environments, such as call centers, are also available starting at $95 per user per month.
Editors' Recommendations Best Black Friday gaming laptop deals: Cheapest prices today Microsoft Word Free Trial: Get a month of service for free The best October Prime Day laptop deals you can shop today Best refurbished MacBook deals: Get a MacBook Air for $159 and more For work or gaming: these are the best Prime Day monitor deals Business Business Computing Prime Day deals have arrived, with Amazon, Best Buy, Walmart, Dell, HP, and Lenovo, all having sales of their own, bringing plenty of discounts on some of the best gaming laptops money can buy. We've sifted through everything on offer to create a definitive list of the best Prime Day gaming laptops that you can (and totally should) shop today.
HP Victus 15 Gaming Laptop -- $680, was $900 The HP Victus 15 is a relatively affordable gaming laptop, but it doesn't sacrifice performance because it's powered by the Intel Core i5-13420H processor and Nvidia GeForce RTX 3050 Graphics, with 8GB of RAM and 512GB of SSD storage. It's got a 15.6-inch screen with Full HD resolution and a 144Hz refresh rate, and it comes with Windows 11 Home pre-loaded. An enlarged touchpad and backlit keyboard add to the gamer aesthetic for less.
Computing Prime Day deals are arriving soon with early deals already underway. The full event runs on July 11 and July 12 so there's really not long to wait. In which case, if you can hold out for the big event, you'll see the absolute best discounts very soon. The best discounts happen during the sales event, with pretty much nothing selling out on Prime Day itself. There's also the bonus of other retailers getting in on the action with their own sales, so there's no shortage of reasons why waiting until Prime Day is smart. If you simply can't hold on any longer though, check out the Chromebook deals below to find what you need right now.
Today's best Prime Day Chromebook deals Acer Chromebook 314 -- $169, was $269 For a cheap Chromebook that's still dependable enough to complete basic tasks, go for the Acer Chromebook 314. Inside are the Intel Celeron N4020 processor, Intel UHD Graphics 600, and 4GB of RAM, plus a 64GB eMMC that's supplemented with built-in support for cloud storage through Google Drive, like all other Chromebooks. The device also has a 14-inch touchscreen with Full HD resolution for sharp details and vivid colors, and a battery that can last up to 12.5 hours on a single charge.
Computing The best antivirus deals offer you great protection for your devices in a nice and simple-to-use package. Right now, there are some great antivirus deals out there so we've narrowed things down to the highlights of the bunch. Read on while we guide you through the best options and explain why you should consider them.
Today's Best Antivirus Deals NortonLifeLock 360 Deluxe -- $25, was $90 Why Buy Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
