Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Share Wi-Fi Password on iPhone How to Restart iPhone Screen Record on iPhone Back Up an iPhone Clear Cache on iPhone Share Location on iPhone Home Mobile Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Best iPhone deals: Save on iPhone 15, iPhone 14, and more By Bruce Brown and Briley Kenney Close Looking for great Apple deals on one of the best iPhones ? There are plenty out there covering the absolute latest and fastest models as well as older models that will still keep many people happy. If you’re keen to see what’s out there and how you could save, read on while we take you through all the best iPhone deals available today.Shopping on a tight budget? Consider checking out our list of the best refurbished iPhone deals instead.
iPhone 15 — free iPhone 15 Plus — free iPhone 15 Pro — free iPhone 15 Pro Max — free iPhone SE (2022) — from $149 iPhone XR — from $193 iPhone 11 — from $249 iPhone 12 mini — from $284 iPhone 12 — from $305 iPhone 13 mini — from $461 iPhone 12 Pro Max — from $541 iPhone 14 — from $574 iPhone 13 Pro — from $626 iPhone 14 Plus — from $636 iPhone 14 Pro — from $796 iPhone 13 Pro Max — from $786 iPhone 14 Pro Max — from $876 iPhone 15 — free Zeke Jones / Digital Trends The Apple iPhone 15 finally brings with it Dynamic Island which we’ve only previously seen on the Pro range. It’s a real game changer at times and is very convenient. Alongside that, the Apple iPhone 15 has the Ceramic Shield front to keep it more protected while its 6.1-inch Super Retina XDR display promises to be up to two times brighter than the iPhone 14 in the sun. There’s also a 48MP main camera with 2x telephoto lens to help you take great shots. The A16 Bionic chip has plenty of processing power to aid with software adjustments. To get the phone for free, sign up to Boost Infinite for $60 per month for unlimited talk, text, and data.
iPhone 15 Plus — free Apple The Apple iPhone 15 Plus is potentially free if you sign up to Boost Infinite for $60 per month for unlimited talk, text, and data. It has a large 6.7-inch Super Retina XDR display that promises to be up to two times brighter than previous models. A 48MP main camera with 2x telephoto lens is just the start of what the Apple iPhone 15 Plus can offer, while the A16 Bionic chip is a powerful beast for doing almost anything imaginable including playing the latest games. If you want the biggest iPhone around, this is a great choice with superior battery life to most alternatives.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
iPhone 15 Pro — free Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends The Apple iPhone 15 Pro is likely to be the phone for most people. It has a 6.1-inch Super Retina XDR display with all the essentials like ProMotion for up to 120Hz refresh rate and an always-on display. It has the latest A17 Pro chip which means performance is unrivalled for an iPhone. It also has a new action button that replaces the mute button. You can set it just how you like it such as for taking a quick photo or setting up a voice memo. Its 48MP main camera is supported by a 3x Telephoto lens while everything about the Apple iPhone 15 Pro oozes class right down to its aerospace-grade titanium design. Get it for free by signing up for Boost Infinite for $60 per month and getting unlimited talk, text, and data.
iPhone 15 Pro Max — free Digital Trends The Apple iPhone 15 Pro Max has a vast 6.7-inch Super Retina XDR display with ProMotion support to ensure great refresh rates and an always-on display. The Dynamic Island continues to be super useful at times, while the whole thing is powered by the A17 Pro chip to ensure that performance is fantastic. Want to be able to play Resident Evil 4 on the move? You’ll soon be able to do that with the Apple iPhone 15 Pro Max. It also has the new customizable action button so you can set up a shortcut to an essential feature, while the 48MP main camera is great for taking photos and has an impressive 5x telephoto lens.
iPhone SE (2022) — from $149 Andy Boxall/Digital Trends / Digital Trends A reliable option for many people, this Apple iPhone SE (2022) is locked to Straight Talk but a great entry point for Apple fans. It has a 4.7-inch Retina HD display along with the A15 Bionic chip powering proceedings. The phone also has a 12MP wide camera along with 7MP FaceTime HD camera so it’s great for snaps and video calls, while you can count on up to 15 hours of video playback in terms of battery life. It also has 5G connectivity if you’re in an area that supports it.
iPhone XR — from $193 iPhone XR Julian Chokkattu/Digital Trends / Digital Trends A refurbished model but one that’s unlocked and comes with a full one-year warranty, the Apple iPhone XR is still pretty stylish for its age. It has a large 6.1-inch LCD screen with 1,792 x 828 resolution with Liquid Retina technology ensuring it looks super sharp. Powered by the A12 Bionic chip, it’s starting to show its age but still has potential. There’s also a 12MP back camera that can shoot 4K videos while the front-facing camera is 7MP and ideal for selfie-taking.
iPhone 11 — from $249 Apple Once the greatest, the Apple iPhone 11 still holds its own. It has a 6.1-inch Liquid Retina HD screen with 64GB of memory and up to 17 hours of battery life. It has dual 12MP ultra-wide and wide cameras with a Night Mode helping you get the most out of low light situations. This particular model is locked to Straight Talk but that’s the only downside to a well-designed phone at a great price.
iPhone 12 mini — from $284 Andrew Martonik/Digital Trends / Digital Trends Refurbished yet with a one-year warranty, the Apple iPhone 12 mini is tiny yet mighty. Its 5.4-inch display is small yet super sharp while performance comes from the still reliable A14 Bionic chip. It has a 12MP main camera along with a 12MP ultrawide lens with both producing great results and sharp imagery. It’s a little powerhouse of delights even if you do have to deal with slightly weaker battery life than bigger models.
iPhone 12 — from $305 Prakhar Khanna/Digital Trends / Digital Trends The Apple iPhone 12 has a gorgeous 6.1-inch OLED display with smaller bezels than previous models. While it’s a refurbished model, you gain a one-year warranty so there’s no risk here. It’s bright yet robust thanks to the Ceramic Shield protecting it from falls. It’s still reasonably powerful too with the A14 Bionic chip in charge and the Apple iPhone 12 being the first with 5G and MagSafe support. A combination of telephoto camera, lidar sensor, Dolby Vision HDR video at 60 fps and Apple ProRAW file support all ensure this is a good option for photographers too.
iPhone 13 mini — from $461 Apple iPhone 13 Mini John Appleseed/Unsplash / Unsplashed Ideal for small hands, the Apple iPhone 13 mini looks great with its 5.4-inch display being sharp with a resolution of 1080 x 2340 even though it’s obviously smaller than the competition. It’s a Super Retina XDR OLED display which helps a lot. Alongside that, your photos will look good thanks to the 12MP wide camera and 12MP ultra-wide lens. For selfies, there’s a 12MP selfie camera too. Powered by the A15 Bionic chipset, you’re guaranteed to still enjoy strong performance too. A refurbished model, you still benefit from a one-year warranty.
iPhone 12 Pro Max — from $541 Jesse Hollington / Digital Trends / Digital Trends The Apple iPhone 12 Pro Max has a large 6.7-inch display with its OLED panel looking gorgeous. Incredibly bright and crisp, it’s hard to fault. Ideal for multitasking if a little cumbersome to hold, the Apple iPhone 12 Pro Max is a true powerhouse in terms of looks. It’s powered by the A14 Bionic processor but there’s 5G support and a Ceramic Shield to keep you happy. For the cameras, enjoy a 12MP sensor that’s larger than before along with great software additions and an ultrawide lens too. Count on Dolby Vision HDR video support to make moving images look even better. Through this offer, you’re buying a refurbished model but it still has a one-year warranty.
iPhone 14 — from $574 Simon Cohen / Digital Trends / Digital Trends Familiar yet lovable, the Apple iPhone 14 is a great choice for many. In this case, it’s a refurbished product but it comes with a one-year warranty as standard. It has a delightful 6.1-inch OLED screen with 2532 x 1170 resolution and HDR support, along with up to 1,200 nits of peak HDR brightness. Vibrant to look at, its cameras are similar to the iPhone 13’s but a little refined. There’s a 12MP primary lens with a larger sensor, while you also have a 12MP ultrawide camera. It looks great even with lowlight snaps, while selfies are also ably produced here too. The A15 Bionic chip keeps things ticking along nicely.
iPhone 13 Pro — from $626 Andy Boxall/Digital Trends / Digital Trends Once the best you could get, the Apple iPhone 13 Pro is still pretty neat. It has a gorgeous 6.1-inch Super Retina OLED screen with fantastic color accuracy and 2,532 x 1,170 resolution. It’s sharp and bright at all times, with outdoor visibility a breeze. There’s also 120Hz ProMotion support so you can enjoy smoother browsing and gaming than before. Support for HDR10 and Dolby Vision is nice to see too. The A15 Bionic processor works well, while there are three 12MP cameras including a 12MP wide-angle, 12MP telephoto and 12MP ultra-wide angle lens to ensure great photo taking potential. As with many others here, this is a refurbished model but you still have a one-year warranty.
iPhone 14 Plus — from $636 Apple iPhone 14 Plus Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Described as “awkwardly brilliant”, the Apple iPhone 14 Plus is wider, taller, and heavier than the standard iPhone 14. Not quite as luxurious, it still offers a vast and gorgeous screen with its 6.7-inch Super Retina XDR OLED screen with 2,778 x 1,284 resolution, HDR support, and True Tone. It looks great even though it lacks ProMotion support like the Pro range. It has the same cameras as the iPhone 14 with a 12MP main camera and 12MP wide-angle camera system, along with a 12MP lens for selfies. For performance, there’s the A15 Bionic chip keeping things running nicely. This is a refurbished model so it’s been preowned but you get a full one-year warranty.
iPhone 14 Pro — from $796 Andy Boxall/Digital Trends / Digital Trends Previously owned, the Apple iPhone 14 Pro is a refurbished model with a one-year warranty. When we reviewed it, we described it as “effortlessly and unquestionably superb”. Its 6.1-inch Super Retina XDR screen looks great with a 2,556 x 1,179 resolution and up to 2,000 nits of brightness when outdoors. It’s an always-on display so it looks great at all times, while there’s ProMotion support too for a better refresh rate. The dynamic island feature is one that you’ll wonder how you lived without now that plenty of apps support it. There’s also the 48MP main camera which looks great along with 12MP wide-angle and telephoto lenses too.
iPhone 13 Pro Max — from $786 Digital Trends / Digital Trends A couple of generations old, it makes sense that this particular Apple iPhone 13 Pro Max is a refurbished model. It still comes with a one-year warranty though. Its screen is huge with a 6.7-inch OLED display that has a smaller notch than before and the all-important 120Hz refresh rate. There’s also higher peak brightness levels of 1,200. For photography, there’s a 12MP main camera along with 12MP ultra-wide sensor and a telephoto lens too. Everything is powered well by the A15 Bionic chipset that continues to be speedy.
iPhone 14 Pro Max — from $876 Joe Maring / Digital Trends The Apple iPhone 14 Pro Max is “big, powerful and nearly perfect”. This particular deal is on a refurbished model but you still get a one-year warranty. It has a huge 6.7-inch OLED display with 2,796 x 1,290 resolution. It looks great just like the iPhone 14 Pro and can cope with bright sunny days. There’s also 120Hz ProMotion support along with an always-on display, while the Dynamic Island feature is useful. A 48MP main camera is great for snaps while there’s a 2x optical zoom lens, 12MP telephoto camera, and 12MP ultrawide camera. A 12MP front-facing camera is good for selfies too. It’s an all-round powerful device with the A16 chip ensuring everything flies.
Editors' Recommendations Best iPad Black Friday deals: iPad Mini, iPad Air, iPad Pro, and more Black Friday Apple Watch deals: Save on Series 9, Ultra, and more Best Black Friday tablet deals on iPads, Fire Tablets, Samsung, and more Google Pixel Black Friday deals: Pixel 8, Pixel Watch, Pixel Buds and more Best prepaid SIM Black Friday deals: Boost Mobile, Mint Mobile, and more Deals Apple Apple iPhone Cheapest Prices Mobile If you're planning to buy from Black Friday tablet deals, one brand that you should definitely consider is Samsung. With the Samsung Galaxy Tab line ranging from affordable to premium, you'll definitely find a model that suits your needs, and with the discounts from Black Friday deals, you've got the chance to enjoy massive savings with your purchase. These tablets compete with the best iPad Black Friday deals. You're going to have to hurry though, because we're not sure how long stocks will last and when the offers will expire. To help you make a quick decision, we've highlighted our favorite bargain, as well as some of the top Samsung Black Friday deals on tablets that are still available right now.
Our favorite Samsung tablet Black Friday deal The specifications of the Samsung Galaxy Tab A8 is far from what you'll find in the best tablets, as it's only equipped with an octa-core Unisoc processor and 3GB of RAM. However, for most people who only want to buy a tablet for basic functions like browsing the internet, checking social media, and watching streaming content, this device will prove to be more than enough. The Android tablet's 10.5-inch touchscreen features 1920 x 1200 resolution, which makes it large and sharp for a budget device, and while internal storage is limited at 32GB, you can add more space for your photos and videos through an up to 1TB microSD card. Already affordable at its original price of $199, the Samsung Galaxy Tab A8 is currently even cheaper at $149 following a $50 discount from Walmart for Black Friday.
Mobile You already know the drill. If you want the best Apple products, you'll have to pay premium prices. That's just how the game works, right? If you're paying attention to the season, however, you'll see that Black Friday deals are already here. These deals can knock even the priciest Apple products down to a level where most of us can afford them. But, if you want to take those savings to the next level, the absolute best way is to look for refurbished products, which will lower the price even more. Quality refurbished products from trusted companies like Backmarket and Amazon, which pass rigid quality controls and come with excellent guarantees, are a great way to find low prices on Apple goodies. Furthermore, by using these services, we reduce the amount of plastics that need to be manufactured from the Earth's precious resources.
Here are the best refurbished Apple Black Friday deals that we've found across a variety of product styles.
Best refurbished iPad Black Friday deals Mobile Black Friday deals mean plenty of chances to save big on new gadgets you might want such as a new Fitbit. Fitbits are one of the best ways to track all your steps, calories burned, and all kinds of other things so you can work towards becoming the best you that you can be. Throughout the year, there are plenty of Fitbit deals around but things get extra special during the holidays season. We've picked out some of the best Fitbit Black Friday deals around below, some that rival the best Black Friday Apple Watch deals and Garmin Watch Black Friday deals. Further down, we've also looked at what you need to know about them so you choose the right one for you this Black Friday.
Best Fitbit Black Friday deals Fitbit Ace 3 -- Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
