Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Apple iPad (2021) review: Meet the new boss, same as the old boss By Adam Doud Close $329.00 Great battery life Powerful internals Big upgrade to the front-facing camera Amazing software support Base storage more acceptable at 64GB Display doesn't get bright enough Lightning port in 2021 Slow Touch ID sensor If you’re shopping for a tablet, statistically speaking, you’re probably shopping for an iPad — and not just any iPad, but the mainstay 10.2-inch iPad. After all, there’s a reason Android tablets have not made much of a dent in the mobile computing space.
Processor and performance Base storage Front-facing camera That’s everything Price and availability Our take In 2019, Apple started getting really serious about iPads by spinning off iOS into iOS and iPadOS.
 Around that same time, your average, base-model iPad stopped changing from generation to generation. Sure, they got tiny spec bumps here and there, but if I handed you an iPad from any of the last three years, you would be hard-pressed to tell me which one you have in your hand.
Best tablet deals: Save on iPad, Galaxy Tab, Fire tablet, and more Best iPad deals: Save on 10.2-inch iPad, iPad Pro, and more Apple may launch new iPads soon, and you should be excited For the most part, that’s fine. The base model iPad is arguably the best tablet you can buy on a budget. If it ain’t broke, don’t fix it, as the saying goes. So you get the same size screen, same Touch ID sensor, same size battery, and even the same chassis. You can seriously take your iPad 10.2 (2019) out of its case and slide in an iPad 10.2 (2021), and it will fit perfectly fine. I know because that’s what I did.
So rather than walk you through all the same parts of the same tablet we talked about last year (and the year before ), I’ll go over what’s different. This is our (mostly) full review of the iPad 10.2 (2021).
Processor and performance Adam Doud/Digital Trends The key upgrade to any generation of iPad comes in the processor. The iPad 10.2 (2021) carries an Apple A13 Bionic processor, which is the same processor that ran the iPhone 11 series of phones. Apple is nothing if not efficient. The new iPad is theoretically faster than its predecessor, but I didn’t find any notable improvements in terms of app launch speeds, gameplay, or multitasking switching. There may have been a half-second shaved off here or there, but there’s nothing to write home about here.
Of course, a newer processor allows for some more longevity. Your iPad is generally not something you need to upgrade every year, nor even every other year. The iPad is capable of pushing games like Asphalt 9 and Call of Duty: Mobile with ease. I found myself able to multitask easily, switching between windows for research and even using Sidecar to set up the iPad as a second screen for my M1 MacBook Air.
Base storage Adam Doud/Digital Trends / Digital Trends One very welcome change to the iPad 10.2 is the fact that storage now starts at 64GB. Previous generations started at 32GB, which is paltry. To be perfectly honest, 64GB isn’t a whole lot better. But of course, Apple wants to entice you to upgrade to the next level of storage, which is 256GB. Depending on deals, and your use case, that might be a good decision. My typical configuration usually sits at around 35GB or so, but another game or two can suck away the storage faster than you can say “Epic Games.” If you’re using the iPad mostly for productivity tasks, or video consumption, 64GB might be OK for you. You’ll have to limit the number of movies you load up for your road trip, and in that respect, 64GB is still too small. But if it weren’t, there’d be no temptation to kick in that extra hundred to go to 256GB, now would there? Again, Apple is nothing if not efficient. Still, I appreciate the upgrade.
Front-facing camera Adam Doud/Digital Trends / Digital Trends While the cameras on the back of this tablet remain the same, the front-facing camera gets a big upgrade. The camera is a 12-megapixel 1080p camera, up from (not a typo) 1.2MP from last year. That’s right, that’s one-point-two megapixels. The new camera is also an ultrawide camera with a 122-degree field of view, which is what enables auto framing.
Auto framing is pretty cool, following you around the room as you walk and talk, or as you shift your grip on the iPad. The only problem with auto framing is it ratchets down the resolution quite a bit. With auto framing enabled, your picture is quite grainy, but when it comes to just taking selfies, the resolution is just fine.
That’s everything Adam Doud/Digital Trends Someone reading this review might look at this list of differences between generations of iPad and wonder, “What’s the point in upgrading?” If there’s anything I can communicate to you about this iPad, it is that there is no point in upgrading. Even if you’re rocking an iPad 10.2 (2019), there’s probably little reason to upgrade.
The singular exception to that is the battery. A two-year-old iPad may start to have some battery life issues after going through two years of charge cycles. That would be about the only reason to upgrade at this point. The only other reason to upgrade would be if you live on FaceTime and you use an iPad for it. In that case, this iPad will give you a considerable upgrade.
The base model iPad is arguably the best tablet you can buy on a budget. If it ain’t broke, don’t fix it, as the saying goes.
None of that is to say that this is a bad tablet. Far from it. The point is, if you already have an iPad from the previous two years, you basically already have this tablet. There’s no reason to upgrade. But if you do decide to upgrade, you’ll be able to use all the same accessories with it, including cases, keyboards, and even screen covers. Which is probably my favorite part about it. There are so many mobile devices that have accessories built for that one device and nothing else. I don’t know if Apple was motivated by environmental concerns, or just a simple abundance of spare parts, but for whatever reason, this progression of iPads has that really wonderful side effect.
Price and availability The iPad 2021 is the base model available right now. You can buy it just about anywhere including Amazon , and.
 It currently retails for $329, which is the same price as its two immediate predecessors.
Our take Adam Doud/Digital Trends Put simply, the iPad 10.2 from any of the last three years is the best value tablet you can buy. Apple supports the heck out of these things from a software standpoint, and they have the power to spare. The only issues I have with the iPad 10.2 (2021) are the same issues I had with previous generations. The screen is not bright enough, the TouchID sensor is slow, and it still uses a Lightning connector. But there’s still a robust app ecosystem, moving into a new iPad is ridiculously easy, and at the risk of using a cliché, the iPad usually just works.
For common, everyday tasks, the iPad 10.2 is our first, last, and only recommendation.
If you’re in the market for a tablet, you’re probably in the market for an iPad. More expensive iPads have more power and more Pro-level accessories like the second-generation Apple Pencil, Magic Keyboard, etc. If you’re the kind of customer that needs that, you know it. But for common, everyday tasks, the iPad 10.2 is our first, last, and only recommendation.
Is there a better alternative? For the money? No. Now that my review period is over, I’ll be switching back to the iPad Mini , which is a great size and just as powerful. But it also costs almost $200 more. If you just want a content consumption machine and nothing else, the Amazon Fire HD 8 is a nice little tablet that costs a fraction of the iPad. But in terms of value and power for the money, this is the only game in town.
How long will it last? Apple supports its hardware for a long, long time in terms of software updates. If you put a case on the iPad and protect the screen, it’ll last you a long, long time, too. Apple covers the iPad with a one-year limited warranty. AppleCare, available for an extra cost, will usually get you two years of “just about anything” coverage, though there may be additional charges for repairs.
Should I buy it? Yes. Dollar for dollar, this is the best tablet you can buy, if you don’t need Pro-level stuff. With this iPad, you can watch content, do some light video/photo editing, get work done, and more. It’s a very versatile device that can find its way into your life somehow. It doesn’t cost a whole lot either. But, if you already have an iPad 10.2 from 2020, or 2019, there’s no real upgrade here. Stick with what you have.
Editors' Recommendations The iPad is going to get an amazing new feature in 2024 Apple used this free iPhone app to shoot Monday’s Scary Fast event Apple did something surprising with the iPhone last night The new Apple Pencil is cheaper, gets USB-C, and is missing critical features Apple’s new in-store device aimed at improving iPhone setup process Apple Mobile Apple's iPad is undoubtedly one of the most popular tablets on the market right now. There are several different models to choose from, but no matter which one you go with, you'll be getting one of the best tablets out there. Still, Apple provides an abundance of choice here, and with so many different versions — and nearly annual updates — it can be tricky to know which one is the best to get.
All of Apple's iPads are pretty great, and they're each designed with a slightly different audience in mind, so it's hard to pick a single one as "the best." That's why we've broken the list down by categories; after all, there's an ideal iPad for nearly every situation. Whether you're looking for the best overall iPad, the best iPad on a budget, something in the middle of the pack, or even the best small iPad, we've got you covered.
Mobile If your iPhone 15 Pro has been running hotter than expected, then a new patch released by Apple on Wednesday should resolve the problem.
According to Apple, iOS 17.0.3, “addresses an issue that may cause iPhone to run warmer than expected,” while also providing the usual bug fixes and security updates.
Mobile If your new iPhone 15 Pro is still running hotter than expected, then don’t fret as Apple is onto it.
Soon after the new handset started landing in the hands of customers three weeks ago, many quickly found that it seemed to heat up way more than expected.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
