Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile News Apple Pencil 2 review: Everyone’s new iPad sidekick By Christian de Looper Close $129.00 Classy, comfortable design Magnetic charging is cool Works great with iPadOS 14 Useful for more than art now Expensive Not compatible with base iPad The Apple Pencil has been a go-to tool for digital artists and graphic designers for years. Now on its second generation, the Apple Pencil is compatible with all iPad models, though the model that you have will dictate which Apple Pencil model you can use.
A natural design Tools for everyone Our take Given the slew of new features available to the Apple Pencil in iPadOS 14 , we thought it was time to revisit the Apple Pencil, especially considering the fact that those new features mean that anyone could get some use from the device.
Best tablet deals: Save on iPad, Galaxy Tab, Fire tablet, and more Apple did something surprising with the iPhone last night Apple may launch new iPads soon, and you should be excited Now that features like Scribble are available, should you buy the second-generation Apple Pencil for your iPad Pro or new iPad Air ? We put it to the test to find out.
A natural design The first-generation Apple Pencil offered a fully round design, and while some will appreciate the look, I find that the new Apple Pencil 2 , with its flat edge, looks and feels a little more natural. Something about being able to rest my pointer finger on that flat edge gives it a better grip.
Of course, the reason Apple added the flat edge has less to do with gripping the Pencil, and more to do with charging it. Gone is the incredibly unintuitive and awkward charging technique of plugging the Pencil into your iPad’s Lightning port. For the second-generation Apple Pencil, you simply plop the device onto the magnetic charger on the top edge of your iPad, and it’ll charge. That conveniently also doubles as a nice place to store it when you’re not using it, whereas keeping it sticking out of the Lightning port when you’re not using the original Pencil would kind of make you a madman.
Digital Trends The second-generation Pencil is a little thicker than an average pen or pencil, but not overly so, and not enough to make holding it awkward. It’s also pretty lightweight, without feeling cheap or flimsy.
The magnets in the Pencil and iPad keep it nicely in place the majority of the time. During a weekend away, in which my iPad Pro and Pencil were taken in and out of my backpack a number of times, it only came off when I didn’t want to once. The rest of the time, it remained firmly in place — and it’s generally a good place to keep the Pencil even when on the go.
The only downside to the new Apple Pencil is that it only works with a few select iPad models. It works with all iPad Pro models from the 2018 onward, and it works with the 2020 iPad Air (4th gen). The hope is that once Apple brings a the latest flat-sided modern design to the rest of its iPad line, with the base iPad and iPad Mini, the Apple Pencil will once again be universal.
Tools for everyone The design is an important aspect of the Apple Pencil, but perhaps one of the best things about it is that like a fine wine, it gets better with age. That was proven to be true with iPadOS 14, with which Apple introduced a ton of features that, frankly, make the Pencil a tool for everyone — not just for graphic designers.
We’re focusing a little more on the hardware than the software in this review, so we won’t go over those new features in depth. That said, the standout feature here is Scribble , which lets users write and have it automatically transform into text using Apple’s fancy text recognition tech. This works across the entire operating system — anywhere you can type, you can now write.
It means that you can use the device for note-taking, while still being able to get searchable text after the fact. That recognition text can come into play without the need to actually use Scribble too. For example, you can select writing, copy and paste it, and even paste it as straight-up text. And, if you write a URL, address, phone number, or email address, iPadOS will be able to use that data to make calls, navigate you to an address, and so on. It’s handy.
Image used with permission by copyright holder All Apple Pencil models have the same latency of 9ms, which has more to do with iPadOS than the Pencil itself. But combined with the 120Hz refresh rate on the iPad Pro’s display , you have an incredibly smooth-feeling, natural experience.
Of course, there are still features that are hardware-based, and not software-based. The most obvious of those is the ability to double-tap to switch tools or turn the device off, which is a handy shortcut. You can customize the feature depending on the app you’re using, but by default it switches to the eraser tool in most apps. It will definitely come in handy for graphic designers and artists — though perhaps less so for everyone else without some customization.
Our take The Apple Pencil isn’t a perfect tool, but it’s getting close. It’s a little pricey, to be sure, but given the new features in iPadOS 14, it boasts features that pretty much everyone could make use of.
But it is still a bit of a luxury product for those who aren’t graphic designers or artists. That’s to say, you probably don’t need to get an Apple Pencil to take notes. You could just type out your notes with a keyboard if you have one, or use the good ol’ fashioned pen and paper. That said, even if it is a toy for some, it’s a really neat toy, and if you have the cash to spend on the Pencil, you’re unlikely to regret doing so.
Is there a better alternative? No. Other companies offer their own stylus, like Samsung with its S Pen, but that’s only for Samsung devices. As a well-rounded experience, the second-generation Apple Pencil can’t be beat.
How long will it last? As long as you take care of it, the Apple Pencil should last at least a few years. It’s hard to know if Apple will release a third-generation Pencil at some point, but as long as the company keeps updating iPadOS with new Pencil-related features, it should get increasingly useful over time.
Should you buy one? Yes. You might need one if you’re a graphic designer or artist, but even if you’re not an Apple Pencil has a range of features that could be useful to you.
Editors' Recommendations The iPad is going to get an amazing new feature in 2024 Best iPad deals: Save on 10.2-inch iPad, iPad Pro, and more Which Apple Pencil should you buy in 2023? It’s complicated The new Apple Pencil is cheaper, gets USB-C, and is missing critical features Apple’s new in-store device aimed at improving iPhone setup process Apple Apple Apple iPad iPhone and iPad Reviews Product Reviews Tablet Reviews Mobile Apple's iPad is undoubtedly one of the most popular tablets on the market right now. There are several different models to choose from, but no matter which one you go with, you'll be getting one of the best tablets out there. Still, Apple provides an abundance of choice here, and with so many different versions — and nearly annual updates — it can be tricky to know which one is the best to get.
All of Apple's iPads are pretty great, and they're each designed with a slightly different audience in mind, so it's hard to pick a single one as "the best." That's why we've broken the list down by categories; after all, there's an ideal iPad for nearly every situation. Whether you're looking for the best overall iPad, the best iPad on a budget, something in the middle of the pack, or even the best small iPad, we've got you covered.
Mobile If your iPhone 15 Pro has been running hotter than expected, then a new patch released by Apple on Wednesday should resolve the problem.
According to Apple, iOS 17.0.3, “addresses an issue that may cause iPhone to run warmer than expected,” while also providing the usual bug fixes and security updates.
Mobile If your new iPhone 15 Pro is still running hotter than expected, then don’t fret as Apple is onto it.
Soon after the new handset started landing in the hands of customers three weeks ago, many quickly found that it seemed to heat up way more than expected.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
