Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Mobile Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Best iPad deals: Save on 10.2-inch iPad, iPad Pro, and more By Andrew Morrisey Close The tablet market features a lot of great options, but Apple’s iPad lineup remains one of the most popular. It regularly places iPads amongst the best tablets and has many different models and sizes to suit many different needs. Apple has recently introduced a new line of processors, and with new tech often comes some great discounts on current tech. There are several Apple iPad deals taking place right now, and we’ve tracked them all down. From entry level iPads to the largest iPad Pro on the market, these are the best iPad deals available.
Apple iPad (2021) — $249, was $329 Apple iPad Mini (2021) — $400, was $499 Apple iPad Air M1 — $500, was $599 Apple iPad Pro 12.9-inch M2 — $990, was $1,099 Apple iPad (2021) — $249, was $329 Apple If you’re in search of a new iPad but want to avoid the price points of Apple’s high end options, the Apple iPad (2021) makes great bang for the buck. It’s a very capable iPad, as it has all-day battery life, the Apple A13 Bionic chip, and an immersive 10.2-inch Retina display. All of this makes the iPad a great device for creating with, for interacting with the digital world with, and for sitting down with for an evening of movie watching. This Wi-Fi-only model comes in Space Gray with 64GB of internal storage, which is typically plenty for most tablet users’ needs. This is not the newest design of the iPad, which means it still has a home button with Touch ID as part of its design.
Apple iPad Mini (2021) — $400, was $499 Apple If you’re after the most portability you can get your hands on with your next iPad, the Apple iPad Mini (2021) is a good choice. This model features the current iPad design, and is essentially a scaled-down version of the iPad Air. It features a six-core processor and a Liquid Retina display, making it great for consuming media, creating content, and even gaming. It’s compatible with Apple Pencil and Smart Folio, both of which transform the iPad Mini into a portable sketch pad or note taking device.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
Apple iPad Air M1 — $500, was $599 Apple The Apple iPad Air , which sits close to the top of the iPad model lineup, offers many of the great features of the iPad Pro, while maintaining a more reasonable price point. The iPad Air now includes the powerful Apple M1 chip, a processor that can be found in many of Apple’s computers. This gives the iPad Air more power than you’ll find in most competing tablets. You can compare the Apple iPad Pro and iPad Air if you’re uncertain which is best for your needs, but if you go with the Air it comes available in a variety of cool colors and has a 10.9-inch Liquid Retina Display.
Apple iPad Pro 12.9-inch M2 — $990, was $1,099 Apple / Apple If you like a larger screen or form factor, the Apple iPad Pro 12.9-inch is probably the one for you. The larger screen offers a more immersive viewing experience, and it provides more room to maneuver if you’re a content creator or plan to interact with your iPad frequently for work. The Apple M2 chip delivers performance that’s difficult to find in a tablet. It has an 8-core processor with a 10-core graphics processor. The XDR display itself is one of the most impressive features of the 13-inch iPad M2, as it can reach 1,600 nits of brightness and provides a crystal clear image, wide color gamut, and support for HDR photos and video.
Editors' Recommendations Best iPad Black Friday deals: iPad Mini, iPad Air, iPad Pro, and more Best refurbished Apple Black Friday deals on AirPods, iPads, iPhones, and more The best iPhone 15 case Black Friday deals you can buy now Designed to rival the iPad Pro, Samsung’s best tablet is $150 off Browse, work or read anywhere: Save $99 on the latest iPad Mini Computing Deals Apple Apple iPad Cheapest Prices Mobile It’s no surprise that the iPhone 15 Pro Max is Apple’s most feature-packed smartphone to date. It is important to note that even though the iPhone 15 Pro Max is both durable and lightweight, with its 6.7-inch screen and titanium casing, it can still get damaged during an accident and crack or shatter. To keep your newest iPhone in good condition, it is highly recommended that you invest in one or two protective cases to keep it safe and secure.
Fortunately, we have compiled a list of the 20 best iPhone 15 Pro Max cases that you can purchase right now. Take a look below; we are confident that you will find something that meets your needs.
Mobile The Wi-Fi, 64GB model of the ninth-generation Apple iPad featuring a 10.2-inch Retina display is down to its lowest price this year of $249, after an $80 discount by Amazon on its original price of $329. If you missed the previous chance to get the tablet for this cheap, here's another opportunity -- but you need to act fast if you don't want to let it slip through your fingers again. This is one of the most interesting iPad deals online right now, so you should hurry with your purchase if you want to beat all the other interested shoppers.
Why you should buy the Apple iPad 10.2 (9th Gen) The ninth-generation Apple iPad was released in 2021, but it's still on our list of the best iPads as the top budget option because its performance, powered by Apple's A13 Bionic chip that's also in the iPhone 11 series, is still more than enough for the average user. The 10.2-inch Retina display is still gorgeous with sharp details and bright colors, which makes it the perfect screen for watching streaming shows, playing mobile games, and browsing social media.
Mobile The Wi-Fi, 64GB model of the ninth-generation Apple iPad is currently available from Amazon for just $249, which is the tablet's lowest-ever price at Amazon and the same price it was during October Prime Day. We're not sure why the $80 in savings on the device's sticker price of $329 is still online, but if you've been looking for iPad deals, this is an offer that you won't want to miss. Its price may return to normal in the blink of an eye, so don't waste any more time -- push through with the transaction to secure the discount.
Why you should buy the Apple iPad 9th Gen The ninth-generation Apple iPad isn't the latest version of Apple's entry-level tablet -- that's the 10th-generation Apple iPad -- but the device remains on our list of the best iPads as the top choice for those who are on a budget. That's because the ninth-generation Apple iPad still offers great performance by today's standards despite the affordable price tag, as it's powered by the A13 Bionic chip that was launched with the iPhone 11 series. The tablet may also be upgraded to iPadOS 17, which is the most recent update for Apple's operating system for its tablets, so you won't be missing out on the newest features.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
