Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Best tablet deals: Save on iPad, Galaxy Tab, Fire tablet, and more By Andrew Morrisey Close Are you planning to buy one of the best tablets , or are you looking for a more affordable option? Either way, you should check out the tablet deals that we’ve gathered below, as they include devices for anyone from children to professionals. There’s no telling how much time is remaining for some of these offers though, so if one of them catches your eye, you know what to do — proceed with the purchase immediately because it would be a shame if you miss out on the savings.
Amazon Fire 7 Kids — $55, was $110 Amazon Fire HD 10 — $75, was $150 Samsung Galaxy Tab A7 Lite — $130, was $160 Samsung Galaxy Tab A8 — $180, was $230 Amazon Fire Max 11 — $200, was $280 Google Pixel Tablet — $399, was $499 Samsung Galaxy Tab S8 — $520, was $700 Microsoft Surface Pro 7+ — $600, was $930 Samsung Galaxy Tab S8+ — $700, was $900 Microsoft Surface Pro 9 — $900, was $1,000 Samsung Galaxy Tab S8 Ultra — $950, was $1,100 Amazon Fire 7 Kids — $55, was $110 Amazon The Amazon Fire 7 Kids tablet is a perfect started device for children. It includes the Amazon Fire 7 , a sturdy kid-proof case with a built-in stand to protect the device from damage, and a one-year subscription to Amazon Kids+ that offers books, games, videos, and apps curated for children. The tablet also comes with a two-year worry-free guarantee that will get you a free replacement if it breaks.
Amazon Fire HD 10 — $75, was $150 Amazon Amazon continues its tablet lineup with the Amazon Fire HD 10 , which features a bright, 10.1-inch display with Full HD resolution that will let you enjoy watching streaming shows or scrolling through social media, and an octa-core processor with 3GB of RAM for decent performance. You can even use the Amazon Fire HD 10 hands-free with Amazon’s Alexa and voice command support. The tablet can run for up to 12 hours on a single charge, and its 32GB of internal storage may be expanded with an up to 1TB microSD card.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
Samsung Galaxy Tab A7 Lite — $130, was $160 Samsung / Samsung The Samsung Galaxy Tab A7 Lite is one of Samsung’s entry-level Galaxy tablets. It offers tablet functionality at a low price, and despite allowing you to keep a few extra bucks in your pocket, it doesn’t skimp too much when it comes to user experience. The Samsung Galaxy Tab A7 Lite has a sturdy frame that’s made to last, performance that won’t let you down, and a compact 8.7-inch screen that’s good for both entertainment and work. Its slim design makes it an easy choice for a go-anywhere, use-anywhere companion.
Samsung Galaxy Tab A8 — $180, was $230 Samsung The Samsung Galaxy Tab A8 makes a great tablet for anyone looking to size down from a laptop, yet maintain much of the capabilities of a larger computing device. The Samsung Galaxy Tab A8 features a 10.5-inch screen with Full HD resolution, 32GB of internal storage, and the option for more space by installing an up to 1TB microSD card. Its battery can last up to 13 hours on a single charge and reach back to 100% quickly with a fast-charging USB-C port.
Amazon Fire Max 11 — $200, was $280 Amazon / Amazon The Amazon Fire Max 11 is Amazon’s most powerful tablet yet, with an octa-core processor and 4GB of RAM providing smooth performance and an 11-inch screen with 2000 x 1200 resolution offering sharp details and vivid colors. The tablet features a sleek aluminum design with strengthened glass, a battery life of up to 14 hours on a single charge, and 128GB of internal storage that you can expand by up to 1TB through a microSD card.
Google Pixel Tablet — $399, was $499 Joe Maring / Digital Trends The Google Pixel Tablet stands out among other tablets because it comes with a dock that doubles as a charging station and a speaker. When docked, the tablet goes into Hub Mode, which essentially makes it a smart display through which you can access your smart home devices and interact with Google Assistant.
 You’ll enjoy watching streaming content on its 11-inch touchscreen with Full HD resolution and adaptive brightness, and it’s powered by the reliable Google Tensor G2 chip.
Samsung Galaxy Tab S8 — $520, was $700 Nadeem Sarwar / DigitalTrends / Digital Trends The Samsung Galaxy Tab S8 is equipped with the Qualcomm Snapdragon 8 Gen 1 processor, which promises dependable performance, and an 11-inch touchscreen with Full HD resolution for a clear look at your apps. It comes with a battery life of up to 15 hours on a single charge, 128GB of internal storage, and Samsung’s S-Pen stylus for an additional input option. You can even use the tablet as a computer by activating DeX mode.
Microsoft Surface Pro 7+ — $600, was $930 Microsoft The Microsoft Surface Pro 7+ comes with a Type Cover, which allows it to function like a laptop by adding a keyboard that doubles as protection for its 12.3-inch touchscreen when it’s closed. Inside the tablet are the 11th-generation Intel Core i3 processor and 8GB of RAM, which are specifications that are similar to a mid-range laptop, and it comes with Windows 11 Home pre-installed in its 128GB SSD.
Samsung Galaxy Tab S8+ — $700, was $900 Adam Doud/Digital Trends / Digital Trends The Samsung Galaxy Tab S8+ is both powerful and beautiful, with the Qualcomm Snapdragon 8 Gen 1 processor supported by 8GB of RAM, and a 12.4-inch Super AMOLED touchscreen with 2800 x 1752 resolution that provides vivid colors and sharp details. The tablet also comes with the S-Pen stylus for taking notes and drawing sketches, 128GB of storage that may be expanded by up to 1TB through a microSD card, and a battery that can last up to 15 hours from a full charge.
Microsoft Surface Pro 9 — $900, was $1,000 Microsoft The Microsoft Surface Pro 9 , the latest entry in the brand’s line of tablets, packs the 12th-generation Intel Core i5 processor and 8GB of RAM, plus Windows 11 Home pre-installed in its 128GB SSD. The device features a 13-inch PixelSense touchscreen with 2880 X 1920 resolution and a 120Hz refresh rate, a built-in kickstand, and support for Dolby Vision for impressive picture quality when watching videos.
Samsung Galaxy Tab S8 Ultra — $950, was $1,100 Ajay Kumar/Digital Trends / Digital Trends The Samsung Galaxy Tab S8 Ultra offers the largest screen that you can get from a tablet with its 14.6-inch Super AMOLED display featuring 2960 x 1848 resolution, which makes it a great laptop alternative through DeX mode and if you buy a keyboard cover. The tablet’s performance is no slouch either with the Qualcomm Snapdragon 8 Gen 1 processor and 8GB of RAM, and it comes with 128GB of storage that you can expand with an up to 1TB microSD card.
Editors' Recommendations Best iPad Black Friday deals: iPad Mini, iPad Air, iPad Pro, and more Best Black Friday tablet deals on iPads, Fire Tablets, Samsung, and more The best Samsung tablet Black Friday deals — from only $100 The best iPhone 15 case Black Friday deals you can buy now Designed to rival the iPad Pro, Samsung’s best tablet is $150 off Deals Amazon Apple Apple iPad Cheapest Prices Samsung Mobile In typical style, Amazon has one of the best iPad deals around with $99 off the Apple iPad Mini. Normally priced at $499, you can buy one for $400 so you save 20%. Ideal as a gift for someone this holiday season or if you've been waiting to buy a new tablet for yourself, it's likely to be a popular deal as is always the way with Apple deals, so let's take a quick look at what it offers before you consider tapping the buy button.
Why you should buy the Apple iPad Mini One of the best iPads around, particularly when it comes to portability, there's a lot to like about the Apple iPad Mini. It has a gorgeous looking 8.3-inch Liquid Retina display which has support for True Tone and P3 wide color. It also has ultra low reflectivity so it's perfect for using even in bright light situations.
Mobile There are some fantastic phone deals around on the stylish and powerful Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 5. A highlight in the folding phone world, this is the ideal device if you want to stand out from the crowd. Right now, you can buy it direct from Samsung with up to $1,000 instant trade-in credit depending on the device you have to trade in, bringing it down to $800. Alternatively, if you don't have anything to trade in, you can get it from Amazon for $1,500, saving $300 off the regular price. Whichever deal sounds best to you, keep reading while we take you through what you need to know about the phone.
Why you should buy the Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 5 Topping our roundup of the best folding phones, the Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 5 is an absolute delight. It's finally demonstrated how the folding phone has come of age. It has a 6.2-inch cover screen for one-handed scrolling and anything basic, and it unfolds to open up to a 7.6-inch interior screen. Both look gorgeous with a new Flex Hinge mechanism ensuring the phone can close without a gap.
Mobile The tablet market features a lot of great options, but Apple’s iPad lineup remains one of the most popular. It regularly places iPads amongst the best tablets and has many different models and sizes to suit many different needs. Apple has recently introduced a new line of processors, and with new tech often comes some great discounts on current tech. There are several Apple iPad deals taking place right now, and we’ve tracked them all down. From entry level iPads to the largest iPad Pro on the market, these are the best iPad deals available.
Apple iPad (2021) — $249, was $329 If you’re in search of a new iPad but want to avoid the price points of Apple’s high end options, the Apple iPad (2021) makes great bang for the buck. It’s a very capable iPad, as it has all-day battery life, the Apple A13 Bionic chip, and an immersive 10.2-inch Retina display. All of this makes the iPad a great device for creating with, for interacting with the digital world with, and for sitting down with for an evening of movie watching. This Wi-Fi-only model comes in Space Gray with 64GB of internal storage, which is typically plenty for most tablet users’ needs. This is not the newest design of the iPad, which means it still has a home button with Touch ID as part of its design.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
