Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Share Wi-Fi Password on iPhone How to Restart iPhone Screen Record on iPhone Back Up an iPhone Clear Cache on iPhone Share Location on iPhone Home Mobile Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The 16 best messaging apps for Android and iOS in 2023 By Simon Hill , Simon Chandler and Paula Beaton Close Adem AY/Unsplash Most of us use our phones on a daily — often near-constant — basis to keep in touch with family, friends, and co-workers. Because the default messaging service on your phone isn’t always the best option, how do you know which messaging apps are the most reliable and feature-packed? With so many apps out there offering everything from free video and voice calls to file sharing and photo sharing, finding the best one to suit your needs can be a challenge. We’ve taken time out to test some of the most popular options. Make sure to check our a more comprehensive list of the best iPhone apps and the best Android apps overall. Here are some of the best messaging apps for Android and iOS.
Concerned about privacy? Check out the best encrypted messaging apps around. Prefer chatting from your desktop at work rather than your smartphone? Our pick of the best chat clients for PC and Mac has you sorted.
WhatsApp One of the most-used messaging apps in the world, WhatsApp is very easy to set up, and it’s free. You can chat and share things like your location, photos, documents, and contacts. You can also make video and voice calls, and the app supports group voice and video calls with up to eight people. The setup requires you to grant access to your contacts so the app can automatically populate your contact list.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
One of the things that is so attractive about this app, other than its massive popularity, is the addition of end-to-end encryption for privacy and security, though it is owned by Meta (Facebook).
 It also supports GIFs and Snapchat-like editing features for fun. The latest new features include disappearing messages, which allow you to set your chats to disappear after seven days, the option to save important messages when using disappearing messages, and new custom wallpapers to brighten up your chats. WhatsApp has also added privacy-focused features like the ability to leave groups silently (no members except admins are notified) and screenshot blocking for View Once messages.
Android iOS Messenger Image used with permission by copyright holder Meta (Facebook) has its own separate messaging app that makes it very convenient to chat with friends and family. It will automatically populate your contacts, but you can also add a contact or allow someone to add you as a contact by scanning a unique code. There are plenty of free stickers, and you can send GIFs, too. The video and voice calls are clear and very reliable. On Android, the Chat Heads feature allows you to keep a chat icon floating on top of your screen, which is very handy.
You can also share files, share your location, and send money in some markets — or even start a secret conversation that is end-to-end encrypted. With the Messenger Rooms feature, you can host up to 50 people, create a link to your chat, and share it with anyone, even if they’re not on Meta. You can also opt-in to vanish mode, where your messages disappear after you exit the chat, or enjoy Watch Together, which lets you watch TV shows, movies, and videos with your friends over video chat in real-time. Though you can enable end-to-end encryption on your chats, ensuring they stay safe from prying eyes, this isn’t enabled by default. However, Meta is testing this feature and may roll it out in the future.
Android iOS Telegram Boasting millions of active users, Telegram bills itself as the fastest messaging app around. It works across devices on mobile and desktop platforms. You can store chat history in the cloud and share files with no limit on size, and chats are secured with 256-bit symmetric AES encryption, 2048-bit RSA encryption, and Diffie-Hellman secure key exchange.
There is support for stickers and GIFs, photo and video editing, and group chats for up to 200,000 people. Features include animated stickers for photos or videos, a media editor that makes it easy to enhance video quality and add texts and stickers, scheduled voice chats, and the option to set messages to auto-delete after 24 hours or seven days of sending. Recently added features include shareable folders to sort your group chats and custom wallpapers for 1-on-1 chats.
Telegram is also free with little to no ads, but it does have a premium subscription that gives you extra features like sending larger files, the ability to pin 10 chats, and a voice-to-text conversion feature.
Android iOS Signal Signal , from Open Whisper Systems, is one of the most highly recommended apps when it comes to chat encryption and security and has become a popular alternative to WhatsApp if you’re concerned about privacy.
 This app has military-grade encryption for all your messaging and voice calls. It supports texts, voice calls, group messages, and sending media attachments. Edward Snowden famously recommended this app, which makes it a top pick for people who are looking for security, first and foremost.
Features include the ability to blur features in an image editor, dark mode, a huge range of sticker packs, the option to react to any message with emoji, an eight-hour mute setting to silence notifications while you’re asleep, a chatbot, and chat wallpapers. The latest updates include the ability to see folders in the photo selector, making it easier to pick attachments from a photo album, and the option to quickly select from emojis already added to a message to create a chain reaction.
Android iOS Skype Skype is another popular app that lets you text and call people anywhere in the world. You can use the app on your phone as well as on your desktop for easy access. It’s also one of the best videoconferencing apps out there. The app lets you share screens, join free video calls, record conversations, and share files, which can be useful for both personal and professional use.
To make your experience better, the video call feature also offers noise suppression, custom reactions, and Together mode, where you can see all the participants at once. Features include end-to-end encryption for messages, real-time translation in 42 different languages, and various screen-sharing options like zoom in/out. Recently added features include Bing in Skype, Microsoft’s AI chatbot you can use for recommendations and answers, and HD video calls.
Android iOS Discord Discord first launched in 2015 as a chat app to keep gamers connected while they played together. Today, over 350 million users worldwide use the free app for a variety of different chat purposes. In fact, the company logs at least 14 million active users every day. Whether you’re playing the best free FPS games or diving into the best PS5 games for 2023 with friends, Discord allows the option for private group chats with up to 10 friends in the same space at a time.
If gamers are worried that typing out chats could get in the way of their gameplay, they can use Discord’s voice chat feature for hands-free communication. Today, clubs and communities use Discord to stay in touch and facilitate meetings. It’s also an excellent way to meet people online because many digital communities form Discord groups to keep people connected. It’s also the only way to get started using Midjourney for AI image generation.
Features include PlayStation 4 and PS5 integration, so you can see what your friends are playing, topic-specific channels that make it easy to find what you’re looking for, and easy image sharing. We do want to point out that Discord does not use end-to-end encryption for its messages. If total privacy is a priority, use an alternative app to keep your messages safe. Discord is also rolling out a new username format that will allow you to create your own unique username.
Android iOS Snapchat Image used with permission by copyright holder Snapchat was an instant must-have for younger generations from its first launch, despite it later being popularized and capitalized on by celebrities. While this app’s ratings don’t quite reach as high as Instagram’s, it still does its intended job excellently. Users can communicate with friends and family through short videos, brief photos, or text messages that eventually disappear.
These media messages are fleeting; they’re typically on one’s screen for a few seconds before they’re automatically deleted. You and your friend can continue to send “snaps” back and forth, and the messages will generally disappear every time. The app comes with several fun filters and photo editing software, and it’s Bitmoji – compatible. Snapchat supports larger-scale group chats with all your friends. The company has undoubtedly made a strong home in the corner of the bite-sized communications market.
Features include the ability to save photo and video Snaps, plus the option to create, send, and view Snaps while on a Snapchat call. Snapchat also added the ability to share your Live Location with a group of selected friends for as long as you choose, so you can make sure everyone stays safe. Plus, you can also use Snapchat on PC and Mac.
Android iOS Threema ($5) Threema is a totally anonymous app that uses the NaCI cryptography library to protect your messages. Each time you open the app, a unique ID Key is generated, so you can send messages anonymously — or choose to associate your messages with a phone number or email address. Threema offers end-to-end encryption for text, voice, video, and photo messages, and you can share files up to 50MB.
There’s group messaging, a handy polling system that lets you quickly gauge the opinion of family and friends, and a desktop version, so you can carry on chatting while you’re at work. There are also personal QR codes you can scan to quickly verify contacts. Threema also gives you a choice of light or dark themes, the option to password-protect chats, and archive options.
Android iOS Wickr Me Wickr Me is a secure messaging app that lets you send private text, photos, voice, and video messages, with end-to-end encryption. Messages self-destruct, with a configurable timer and a Shredder feature that securely erases attached files, photos, and other data. You can start individual conversations or join group chats of up to 10 participants, and you don’t need an email address or phone number to register with the app. Wickr Me takes security seriously, with device-to-device encryption that’s almost impossible to break. You can easily pin your favorite chats and groups to the top of your conversations list for easy access.
We should note here that if you’re not already signed up to Wickr Me, the app isn’t accepting new sign-ups, and will be discontinued from December 31, 2023.
Android iOS KakaoTalk Image used with permission by copyright holder The most popular text messaging app used in South Korea is also available in the U.S. Known for its fast and reliable messaging no matter what network you’re connected to, KakaoTalk has become the go-to for many. A standout feature is the integration of e-commerce in the app. KakaoTalk gives users exclusive coupons and deals from popular brands to share with their friends and family.
The app has gotten so popular for transactions that it now offers branded credit cards that users can use with their virtual currency. Bonus features include being able to create your own calendar and schedule appointments and reminders for lunches, work meetings, or gatherings. You can even get together with your friends for a group video chat — and the app recently added profile vote stickers that friends can vote on for up to 72 hours.
Android iOS Line Image used with permission by copyright holder Line is a very popular app, especially in Asia, and is the number one messaging app in Japan, with over 230 million monthly active users worldwide. As well as all the standard features of a messaging app, there is a timeline similar to Meta (Facebook), where you can post, and your friends can comment on your posts.
Calls to landlines and free Line to Line video or voice calls are available. There’s also a very healthy store of stickers packed with Line characters that are famous in Asia. Group chat allows for chats of up to 500 participants, and there’s support for encrypted chats. You can also follow artists and brands on Line. The app even allows you to set up albums and share them with friends or watch YouTube videos together while in a call. Line is planning to roll out custom avatar creation through the AlphaCrewz app, so you’ll soon be able to create your own unique avatar to use on your profile.
Android iOS Kik Kik is one of the older messaging apps on our list as it’s been around for quite some time. Popular among younger people, it has over 300 million registered users worldwide. Unlike many applications that require you to link to a phone number, Kik only requires a username to start texting. Adding your friends and loved ones is as easy as scanning their unique Kik QR code with your phone camera. The interface is fun and user-friendly — you can even play games inside your chat rooms! With almost 70% of the user population between ages 13 and 24, Kik is a great way for teens and young adults to interact and make new friends.
Android iOS Viber Image used with permission by copyright holder With over 1.3 billion users worldwide, this popular app will automatically add your contacts. It allows you to send text messages, stickers, and emoji, make video and voice calls, and share your favorite photos. Color-coded encrypted messaging is also available, along with group chats and self-destructing chats.
Viber Out is a feature that allows you to make international and domestic calls at low rates. Viber-to-Viber calls are always free. Other features include a dark mode, a short-story feature called Shorts, and a create-your-own-GIF feature, which lets you turn a video from any chat into a GIF — plus Viber Communities, where you can create your own community on a shared topic or passion, and invite others. You can also now enjoy group chats with up to 250 people and group video calls with up to 40 participants.
Android iOS WeChat WeChat is the most popular app in China, with more than 1 billion users. It offers the usual messaging app features like photo sharing, video, and voice calls. But with WeChat, you also get features like location sharing to help you find friends who are nearby, and you can share moments or snapshots of your day. You can now group chat with up to 500 people and enjoy group video calls with up to nine participants.
This app also supports payments, games, and much more. It’s available for Wear OS and Apple Watch, too. There’s also dark mode and the option to quote a previous message when replying or sending a new message, plus WeChat recently added the ability to search chat history by date or group member, making it easy to find chats.
Android iOS Dust Dust bills itself as “the world’s most secure messenger,” so if privacy is a concern, it might be worth a download. The app is free, and all messages are erased after 24 hours. You can unsend a message at any time, deleting it off the recipient’s phone in real-time — great for those “oops” moments — and the app will notify you if somebody takes a screenshot of your messages.
Once messages are deleted from Dust, they can never be recovered, giving you complete control over your privacy. This is one of the most secure messaging apps around. One of the most popular features is Blasts, where you can share your pictures and thoughts with your followers — they’ll expire after 24 hours, just like messages.
Android iOS GroupMe As its name implies, it’s no surprise that GroupMe is centered on facilitating group chats or direct messages with others. It’s essentially a text messaging app that also supports users as they send other forms of media or entertainment too, like photos and voice memos.
GroupMe allows users to build group chats with up to 500 people, although we don’t recommend groups of that size unless you want a landslide of notifications. You can add contacts by email address or phone number. One of the great features of this app is that you can communicate with contacts in the U.S., even if they don’t use the app. Swap images, GIFs, videos, and use GroupMe’s custom emojis with your friends. Microsoft owns the app, but they haven’t developed end-to-end encryption for this service yet.
While the Microsoft name may leave you feeling confident, to ensure your privacy, you may want to consider a different chat option instead. With GroupMe, you can also send your videos as GIFs, delete messages, and report concerns about messages with just one tap. The latest features include the ability to delete direct message chats to clear your chat history, and the option for group owners to specify who can delete messages in their groups.
GroupMe has also seen a visual redesign, with new Topic chats meant for large group conversations.
Android iOS Editors' Recommendations The best iPhone 15 case Black Friday deals you can buy now The best iPhone 15 Pro Max cases in 2023: the 20 best ones The best tablets in 2023: top 11 tablets you can buy now The best Android tablets in 2023: the 10 best ones you can buy I’d recommend these early Black Friday phone deals if you can’t wait Android Apple Apple iPhone Apps Best Products Google Mobile Finding a bad Android phone is a rare occurrence these days. However, with so many options available, it can be daunting to choose the best one in 2023. In this article, we aim to help you find the answer to this question.
When looking to buy a new Android phone, there are many factors to consider. Do you prefer a large screen? How important is camera performance to you? Are you someone who enjoys gaming on your phone? Or do you need a long-lasting battery life? To assist you, we have compiled a list of Android phones that cater to everyone's needs, regardless of your preferences or priorities.
Mobile Waiting on an iPhone upgrade? Now is the time to pounce, as the newest additions to Apple's legendary roster were confirmed at its September 2023 event. The belles of the ball this year have to be the upgraded iPhone 15 and iPhone 15 Plus models, which have finally received the design update the iPhone 14 Pro and iPhone 14 Pro Max received last year. Now equipped with the Dynamic Island across the hole-punch selfie camera, the gulf between the iPhone and iPhone Pro has lessened again.
If you're eagerly awaiting your upgrade, or if this is your first iPhone, you'll be wanting to keep it safe. Smartphones tend to be with us throughout our day, and that means they can fall prey to any one of a number of hazards. Bumps, drops, even scratches from sharing your pocket with keys or coins; the list is near endless. The last thing you want is for your new phone to end up scratched, chipped, or even completely broken. Thankfully, a good protective case can stop that from happening. Here are some of the best Apple iPhone 15 cases you can buy right now.
Mobile When you have the best iPhone, you pretty much have infinite possibilities for keepingbusy and entertained, no matter where you are. Sure, the iPhone may not be marketed as a gaming phone specifically, but it's pretty powerful — especially with the A17 Pro in the latest iPhone 15 Pro. That new processor means the Apple mobile gaming experience is only getting better and better, with Apple's new chip being able to play console-level games like Assassin's Creed Mirage and the Resident Evil 4 remake.
While those games aren't available yet, there's no shortage of great games to play. But when the App Store has over a million apps, how are you supposed to find the best games to play? Don't worry -- we're here to help! Since there are a ton of games out there — and not every game is a winner — it's definitely hard to find games that are worth your time and energy. Whether you're looking for a simple match 3, an MMORPG, a dungeon crawler, or even something to just relax with, here are the best iPhone games you can play right now.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
