Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Guides How to install the Google Play Store on your Amazon Fire tablet By Peter Hunt Szpytek Close The Amazon Fire line of tablets are solid devices for anyone looking for an Android-based tablet for e-reading, drafting documents, or watching streaming content. While they bring a lot to the table, especially for the price, there's one big hang-up that we've run into when using the tablets: the software. Amazon Fire tablets run a custom operating system, Fire OS, that's an offshoot of Android — and it leaves a lot to be desired.
Allow apps from unknown sources Know which Amazon Fire tablet you have Download the Google Play Store Difficulty Duration What You Need Your Amazon Fire tablet APK files for the Google Play Store If you're a fan of Fire devices but are looking to use the Google Play Store for downloading apps, we don't blame you since the Amazon App Store leaves a lot to be desired — lacking many popular apps and games you probably want to use. Unfortunately, Amazon makes it a little tricky to actually download the Google Play Store since the company would prefer you use its first-party app store. Luckily, it's not impossible to get Google Play on your Fire tablet — it's just a bit of a pain. Here's what you need to know to download Google Play on your Amazon Fire tablet.
Andy Boxall/Digital Trends / Digital Trends Allow apps from unknown sources Because you aren't able to download the Google Play Store directly from the Amazon App Store, you'll need to download it from the internet. However, Amazon Fire devices have a built-in setting that blocks the download of apps from sources other than the Amazon App Store. Before downloading Google Play, you'll need to disable that setting. Here's how: Step 1: Open the Settings app on your Amazon Fire device.
Step 2: Select the Security & Privacy tab.
Best tablet deals: Save on iPad, Galaxy Tab, Fire tablet, and more Google Pixel Tablet just got a big price cut for Prime Day Amazon’s kid-friendly Fire HD 10 tablets bring AI-powered games Step 3: In the Security & Privacy menu, select Apps from Unknown Sources.
Step 4: Select the Silk Browser option and then toggle the Allow from this source button.
Andy Zahn / Digital Trends Know which Amazon Fire tablet you have Once you've enabled the ability to download apps from outside sources, you'll be ready to download the components necessary for running the Google Play Store. In order to do so, however, you'll need to know specifically what Amazon Fire tablet you're using. If you already know which model you have, skip this section, or follow along just to double check.
Step 1: Open the Settings app again, scroll down to the Device Options tab, and select it.
Step 2: Select the About Fire Tablet option.
Step 3: Check the information below the Device Model heading to learn which specific Amazon Fire model you're using.
Download the Google Play Store With the knowledge of which Amazon Fire model you have, you'll be ready to download the four APKs necessary for running the Google Play Store. Take note that this process may wipe your microSD card if you're using one. Before downloading the following items, make sure to remove your microSD card from the slot just to be safe. Additionally, the APKs you'll be downloading are totally safe. However, the site that they're hosted on has a lot of misleading and potentially malicious ads that may try to confuse you into clicking on them. You should be able to avoid any issues as long as you only select the options listed below, so make sure that you're sticking to the steps closely.
Step 1: Open the Silk Browser app and navigate to this page so that you can tap on the links below.
Step 2: If you have the Fire 7 (8th, 9th, or 12th Generation), the Fire HD 8 (8th or 10th Generation), the Fire HD 10 (9th or 11th Generation), or the Fire Max 11, select this link and then select the red Download APK box: Google Account Manager 7.1.2 (Android 6.0+) target="_blank"> If you have the Fire HD 6, the Fire 7 (7th Generation or older), the Fire HD 8 (7th Generation or older), the Fire HDX 8.9, or the Fire HD 10 (7th Generation or older), click on this link and then select the red Download APK box: Google Account Manager 5.1-1743759 (Android 5.0+) target="_blank"> Step 3: After selecting the APK download prompt, exit the full-screen pop-up ad. You may get an additional pop-up from your Fire tablet that says the download may be harmful. Select Download anyway.
 Select this option every time you're prompted to in the following steps.
Step 4: Return to this page in the Silk Browser and click on this link if you have the Fire 7 (12th Generation), the Fire HD 8 (12th Generation), or the Fire Max 11, then select the red Download APK box: Google Services Framework 10-6494331 (Android 10+) target="_blank"> If you have the Fire 7 (9th Generation), the Fire HD 8 (8th, 9th, or 10th Generation), or the Fire HD 10 (9th or 11th Generation), click this link and then select the red Download APK box: Google Services Framework 9-4832352 (Android 9.0+) target="_blank"> If you have the Fire HD 6 (any version), the Fire 7 (7th Generation or older), the Fire HD 8 (7th Generation or older), the Fire HDX 8.9, or the Fire HD 10 (7th Generation or older), click this link and then select the red Download APK box: Google Services Framework 5.1-1743759 (Android 5.1+) target="_blank"> Step 5: After selecting the red Download APK button, click out of the full page pop up ad and then select Download anyway.
Step 6: Return to this page using the Silk Browser and select the link below based on your Fire model. Be aware that when you click on the link, you won't be given a clear red Download APK button. Instead, you'll need to select the APK from a list of downloads. Find the APK that's closest to the top that doesn't say "beta" in its title, and select the download icon on the right side of the screen.
Fire 7 (12th Generation), Fire HD 8 (12th Generation), and Fire Max 11: Google Play Services (Android 11+) target="_blank"> Fire HD 8 (10th Generation) and Fire HD 10 (9th and 11th Generation): Google Play Services (Android 9.0+) target="_blank"> Fire 7 (9th Generation): Google Play Services (Android 6.0+) target="_blank"> Fire HD 8 (8th Generation): Google Play Services (Android 6.0+) target="_blank"> Fire HD 6, Fire 7 (7th Generation or older), Fire HD 8 (7th Generation or older), Fire HDX 8.9, Fire HD 10 (7th Generation or older): Google Play Services (Android 5.0+) target="_blank"> Step 7: Once you've selected your APK, scroll down and select the red Download APK button. Select Download anyway if you get the "Harmful file" pop-up.
Step 8: Once you've downloaded those three APKs, you'll only have one more item to download, which is universal across all Amazon Fire models. Return to this page with the Silk Browser and click on the link below. Like with the last step, select the APK that's closest to the top of the list that doesn't have the word "beta" in its file name.
Google Play Store target="_blank"> Step 9: After selecting the APK from the list, scroll down and select the blue Download APK button and then select the Download anyway option one final time.
Step 10: With those four downloads complete, you'll be ready to open the files and get the Google Play Store working on your Amazon Fire. Go to your home screen, open the Files app, and then go to the Downloads menu by selecting the tabs on the side of the screen and then selecting Downloads.
Step 11: Change your file view type to list view by selecting the icon in the corner that displays the files arranged in a list so that you can see their full titles. For the Google Play Store to work, you'll need to open the files in a specific order. When opening each, you may get a pop-up saying that you're opening a file from an unknown source. Select Continue.
Open the files in this order and then select Install , then Done : com.google.android.gsf.login com.google.android.gsf com.google.android.gms com.android.vending Step 12: After installing all four APK files, you should see the Google Play Store app added to your home screen. If you don't see it, you may need to restart your tablet. From here, you can select the app, log into your Google account, and start downloading apps from the store.
And just like that, you've successfully added Google Play to your Amazon Fire tablet! You can now download any apps/games that you want from the Play Store, many of which aren't available on the Amazon App Store.
Editors' Recommendations Best Amazon Fire tablet Black Friday deals: Get a tablet for $40 The perfect holiday gift? This Fire HD 8 Kids Pro tablet is 50% off Amazon’s Fire Max 11 tablet is 35% off in its October sale Amazon’s Fire Max 11 tablet just got its first proper discount I abandoned my iPad for an Android tablet and didn’t hate it Amazon Apps Google How-To Guides Mobile Many of the best tablets come in at price points higher than the average tablet user may be looking to spend, which makes Amazon’s Fire tablets a good choice for most people. They’re priced well and are almost always discounted, yet offer a lot of features that put them in solid competition with some of the best iPads. There are a couple of Fire tablet models seeing significant discounts right now, with the Amazon Fire Tablet 10 and Amazon Fire HD Kids Edition Pro currently discounted at Amazon. Whether you’re looking to get a new tablet for yourself or something for the family, these are the best Amazon Fire tablet deals to pounce on right now.
Amazon Fire HD 10 — $130, was $190 The Amazon Fire HD 10 is the newest Fire HD model. Made to compete with the likes of the Samsung Galaxy Tab lineup as well as the Apple iPad lineup, the Fire HD 10 has a lot of great tablet features at a fraction of the cost. It includes access to software and services such as Netflix, Disney+, Microsoft Office, Zoom, Kindle, and Spotify, among many others. It has a 10.1-inch display that comes in at Full HD 1080p resolution, which you’ll enjoy while binge watching or scrolling through social media. You can even use the Amazon Fire HD 10 hands-free with Alexa and voice command support.
Mobile I heartily recommended the Amazon Fire Max 11 in my recent review. In fact, I was so impressed by it that I wanted to continue using it during my daily life after my review period was up. The problem was the Amazon App Store — and to a lesser extent, the Fire OS software — as they stopped me from making the absolute most of this great device.
Could I modify the Fire Max 11 so it was useful enough to replace my Apple iPad Pro? Yes, and it was shockingly easy.
Adding Google to the Fire Max 11 Mobile Printers may be on the way out, given the rise of digital file sharing, but they're unlikely to go away completely any time soon. Thankfully, you don't need a computer to print files. Instead, you can do it straight from your smartphone. That's why we've put together this guide to help you learn how to print files straight from your Android phone.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
