Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Share Wi-Fi Password on iPhone How to Restart iPhone Screen Record on iPhone Back Up an iPhone Clear Cache on iPhone Share Location on iPhone Home Mobile Guides How to print from your iPhone and iPad By Simon Hill and Andre Revilla Close Trying to print something directly from your iPhone or iPad can be a bit convoluted, and you might think sending it to yourself and printing it from a desktop is more convenient. Rest assured, printing from your mobile device has only gotten easier over the years; here are the steps needed to make it happen.
How to print using Apple AirPrint How to print using email How to print using other software How to print with Google Cloud Print Difficulty Duration What You Need Apple iPhone or iPad Printer Corresponding app or software In this guide, we’ll help take you through the process of printing from your iPhone or iPad with a couple of different methods to suit your needs.
Looking to offload content? Lucky for you, we have a guide on how to transfer photos from an iPhone to your Mac or PC.
How to print using Apple AirPrint AirPrint-enabled apps let you create and print full-quality documents and graphics without the chore of installing drivers or configuring the printer queue. The requirements are rather minimal: You need any model iPad, an iPhone 3GS or later, or a third-generation iPod Touch -- as well as the latest version of iOS and an AirPrint-compatible printer with the latest firmware. Check Apple’s AirPrint basic support page for a comprehensive list of all compatible devices, including popular models from Canon, Epson , HP, Samsung , Brother, and a ton of other manufacturers. AirPrint functionality is also the same across all iPhone models, which makes the software easy to use whether you have an iPhone 5 or an iPhone 12 Pro.
Step 1: Connect to Wi-Fi To use AirPrint, both your printer and iPhone must be connected to the same Wi-Fi network. Keep in mind there may be multiple networks available in an office setting, and you might have to enable the AirPrint function depending on which one your printer is using. Check your printer’s manual or the manufacturer’s website for more detailed instructions about how to turn on the function and connect to Wi-Fi.
Step 2: Select the printer Check the connection between your iPhone and the printer by opening an AirPrint-supported app such as Mail, Safari, or Evernote. Most apps will feature a familiar arrow that resembles a forward or reply email icon. Tap the icon, select Print , and your printer should appear as the selected device by default. Otherwise, tap Select Printer at the top and allow your iPhone to scan for nearby printers.
Best iPad Black Friday deals: iPad Mini, iPad Air, iPad Pro, and more Best refurbished Apple Black Friday deals on AirPods, iPads, iPhones, and more How I use my Apple Watch and iPhone to manage my diabetes Step 3: Choose the number of copies Select the number of copies you want to print by tapping the addition and subtraction arrows to the right of Copy. At least one copy is mandatory, but you can print up to a total of 99 pages at once if you’re feeling trigger-happy. You can also tap Options to reveal color options and which pages to print if there are multiple pages.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 4: Print Once you have selected the printer and the number of pages you want, hit Print in the top-right corner of the page. You can cancel your print job or check its status by double-tapping the Home button, choosing Print Center while in the App Switcher, and tapping Cancel Printing.
How to print using email Did you think people were the only ones with email addresses? Many of Epson and HP’s new models feature HP ePrint or Epson Email Print for printing anywhere in the world by simply emailing a photo or document file to your printer’s assigned email. Once set up, the process is relatively easy and straightforward, merely requiring you to send an email from your iPhone to your email-compatible printer. This is obviously not an option for all users and printer models, but it is available for many models, such as the Epson Expression and WorkForce series, as well as most recent HP printers.
Step 1: Activate email printing Assuming you have an email-compatible printer, the first thing you need to do is activate the email function. The enabling process will vary from device to device -- Epson users are going to want to activate Epson Connect, for instance -- but the entire process should be outlined in greater detail in your printer’s manual or on the manufacturer’s website. The printer will be assigned a default email address upon activation -- which will likely amount to a series of random characters at a specified domain name -- but you can change this later to something you will actually remember. Although your iPhone doesn’t need to be connected to the same wireless network as your printer to use email printing, the printer will still be required to connect via Wi-Fi as opposed to a standard USB cable.
Step 2: Print If set up properly, all you need to do is email a document or image from your iPhone to your printer and it will automatically print the file to the default specifications -- typically letter size on plain paper, unless you adjusted the default settings during activation. Your printer won’t accept all file formats but should be able to handle files from Word, PowerPoint, and Excel, as well as JPEGs, GIFS, and PNGs, among others. Check your printer for details regarding acceptable file formats, size, and the number of printable attachments you can include per email.
How to print using other software If neither AirPrint nor e-mail printing are viable options, you can always settle for software directly from your printer’s manufacturer or another third-party source. We recommend snagging Presto (formerly FingerPrint) and downloading the free iOS app , which is compatible with nearly all printers. You can also get this app on Android and Chrome. It works by connecting your printer and computer to third-party devices as long as they are both on the same Wi-Fi network.
Alternatively, you can use your printer manufacturer’s free proprietary app, such as Epson iPrint or Brother iPrint&Scan.
 That said, there are plenty of printers that do not support printing apps, and many printer companies haven’t even created apps to control their printers.
Step 1: Download and install the application Once you decide on an application, head to the manufacturer’s website or the app’s corresponding page in the App Store. Then, download and install the app.
Step 2: Launch the application Next, launch the application either on your computer or iPhone.
Step 3: Connect to Wi-Fi Presto also has a feature known as Magic Queue that allows you to save print jobs until you’re connected to Wi-Fi again. It’s perfect for those situations where you have something to print but aren’t near a network or printer. To enable the feature, begin by launching an app like Notes or one that has a box with an arrow pointing out of it icon. Tap said icon, select the More option, and toggle Presto on. When you have something you want to save, hit the same box icon in the top-right corner, then tap Presto. You will be directed to a new page where Presto’s Magic Queue has already been chosen as the default printer. Hit Print to save your print job.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 4: Select the printer Check the connection between your iPhone and the printer by opening an app such as Mail, Safari, or Evernote.
 Most apps will feature a familiar arrow that resembles a forward or reply icon, or a box with an arrow pointing up. Tap the icon, select Print , and your printer should appear as the selected device by default. If not, tap Select Printer at the top and allow your iPhone to scan any printers you checked in Step 2. Also, your computer must be awake to access the printer.
Step 5: Choose the number of copies Select the number of copies you want to print by tapping the addition and subtraction arrows to the right of Copy. At least one copy is mandatory, but you can print up to a total of 99 pages at once if you’re feeling trigger happy.
Step 6: Print Once you’ve selected the printer and the number of pages you want, hit the Print button in the top-right corner of the page. You can cancel your print job or check its status by double-tapping the Home button to bring up the App Switcher and choosing Print Center -- or the print summary equivalent for the app you’re using.
How to print with Google Cloud Print You can do nearly anything with Google, and printing is no exception. You can use Google Cloud Print to print from any Google app including the Chrome browser, Gmail, or Google Docs. You just need to be signed in to your Google account. You can also print other things via Google Cloud Print by using a third-party app.
Step 1: Get a Google account If you have somehow made it this far without creating a Google account, make one now by going to Google and clicking Sign Up.
 Then, follow the steps to create a profile.
Step 2: Download the PrintCentral Pro app for your iPad or iPhone Cloud Print only works on certain Google apps, and there’s no Google Cloud Print app for iOS. Instead, you can use PrintCentral Pro. Thankfully, the app is available for $6 from the App Store.
Once downloaded, launch it.
Step 3: Choose something you want to print Select the menu that resembles three horizontal lines; it’s located above and left of the PrintCentral app. Once you’ve opened the menu, choose a file, image, email, document, or webpage to print. Keep in mind, if you’re hoping to print an email, you’ll need to check beforehand that your email account is synced to the app. With specific files, be sure they’ve been added to the iCloud first. For printing images, Google will simply request access to them, and you’ll need to approve that request. After you’ve found the content you wish to print and set your affairs in order, select the printer icon in the top-right corner.
Step 4: Add printers From there, a Printer (WiFi) page will appear on your device’s screen. In the top-right corner, you can choose to add a printer by tapping the Addition symbol. Then, select Google Cloud Printing , enter your Gmail address, and tap the blue button that says Save.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 5: Print Everything should run smoothly from there. Google Cloud Printing will select the correct file, and your device will direct you to a print preview page. You’ll see the file or document you’re trying to print along the top of the screen. Two options will also appear on the screen: You can Save to Google Drive or Modify Your Printer Settings.
 At the bottom of the page, you’ll find the options to Preview , Print , or Print Later to schedule your printing requests.
Editors' Recommendations Best Black Friday tablet deals on iPads, Fire Tablets, Samsung, and more It looks like the iPhone 16 will get a big design upgrade It’s finally happening — your iPhone is getting RCS in 2024 How to unblock a number on your iPhone The iPhone is getting out of control Apple How-To Apple Apple iPad Apple iPhone How-To Guides Mobile Updated from an older iPhone to the new iPhone 15? You may have noticed that your notifications have changed. Where once they sat nestled at the top, now, they appear at the bottom, stacked atop one another. It's a relatively small change, but an important one, as it dramatically changes how and where you find your notifications.
Mobile Nothing is trying to bridge the great blue/green bubble divide for Android users of iMessage. This is not a personal crusade to shatter walls and open windows, as much as Nothing CEO Carl Pei would want you to believe that. Instead, Nothing is piggybacking on tech created by New York-based startup Sunbird.
Technically, the Sunbird app can be installed on any Android phone and it features a blue bubble for all iMessage text exchanges involving an Android phone. No more green bubble shame that could get you kicked out of groups for disrupting the harmony or even slim your dating chances. That’s how bad it is! Nothing is adopting the Sunbird tech and bundling it as its very own app under the name Nothing Chats. But here’s the fun part. The app only works on the Nothing Phone 2 and not the Nothing Phone 1. And this life-altering boon will only be bestowed upon users in the U.S., Canada, the U.K., or the EU bloc.
The app is currently in the beta phase, which means some iMessage features will be broken or absent. Once the app is downloaded on your Nothing Phone 2, you can create a new account or sign up with your Apple ID to get going with blue bubble texts.
Just in case you’re concerned, all messages will be end-to-end encrypted, and the app doesn’t collect any personal information, such as the users’ geographic location or the texts exchanged. Right now, Sunbird and Nothing have not detailed the iMessage features and those that are broken.
We made iMessage for Android...
The Washington Post tried an early version of the Nothing Chats app and notes that the blue bubble system works just fine. Texts between an Android device and an iPhone are neatly arranged in a thread, and multimedia exchange is also allowed at full quality.
However, message editing is apparently not available, and a double-tap gesture for responding with a quick emoji doesn’t work either. We don’t know when these features will be added. Nothing's Sunbird-based app will expand to other territories soon.
Sunbird, however, offers a handful of other tricks aside from serving the iMessage blue bubble on Android. It also brings all your other messaging apps, such as WhatsApp and Instagram, in one place. This isn’t an original formula, as Beeper offers the same convenience.
Mobile Every year, we get a new iPhone; that’s just the way it goes. And one of the biggest upgrades each year is with the camera system.
Though the spotlight is typically on the Pro models of the iPhone, Apple gave us a pretty significant upgrade this year with the standard iPhone 15. Of course, it’s not as feature-packed as the iPhone 15 Pro, but Apple brought the Dynamic Island and USB-C to the regular iPhone 15, and even bumped up the camera to a whopping 48MP.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
