Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Guides How to print from your Android smartphone or tablet By Mark Jansen Close Printers may be on the way out, given the rise of digital file sharing, but they're unlikely to go away completely any time soon. Thankfully, you don't need a computer to print files. Instead, you can do it straight from your smartphone. That's why we've put together this guide to help you learn how to print files straight from your Android phone.
How to print a file/document from your Android phone or tablet How to print something on the internet from your Android phone or tablet How to print using email on Android Difficulty Duration What You Need An Android smartphone or tablet Wi-Fi or email-enabled printer There are a number of ways to print files from your Android phone. Not only has Android itself gotten better at printing, but the best inkjet and best photo printers have been getting new features to accommodate wireless printing. In case you need to print from your iPhone or iPad , check out our other guide. For this guide, we're focusing on Android devices.
How to print a file/document from your Android phone or tablet Android has printing services built-in now, but you'll likely need a companion app for your printer, which can easily be installed as part of the process. Here's how.
Step 1: If you haven't set up a printer, you'll need to do that first.
Step 2: Head to Settings > Connected devices > Connection preferences > Printing.
How to change your language on Duolingo When is my phone getting Android 14? Here’s everything we know The best Android tablets in 2023: the 10 best ones you can buy Step 3: Select Add service.
 The Google Play Store will open.
Step 4: Choose your printer's brand and Install the app.
Step 5: Now find the file you want to print. You can print from Files, Google Docs, Google Sheets, or a number of apps that support printing. We'll be using Files, but the instructions are similar across a number of apps.
Step 6: Open the file and select the three vertical dots in the top-right corner.
Step 7: Choose Print from the list.
Step 8: Your printer should be visible at the top of the page. If it isn't, choose Select a printer and choose All printers > Add printer.
Step 9: Choose your printer's print service. The process will check your Wi-Fi network and find your printer.
Step 10: Go back to the printing page and choose the Print button.
How to print something on the internet from your Android phone or tablet You don't have to download something to print it out, though. Instead, you can just print straight from the internet. You can do this on basically any smartphone or tablet browser, and the process is largely the same. We've used Chrome for this guide.
As mentioned above, you'll need to make sure your printer is set up, so follow the steps above if you haven't done that already.
Step 1: Open Chrome and head to the webpage you want to print.
Step 2: Open the three-dot menu in the top-right and choose Share.
Step 3: Now select Print.
Step 4: Select your printer, and tap the Print button.
How to print using email on Android Printer manufacturers have been building features into their printers that give printers email addresses. What that means is that you can send an email to the printer with a document you want to print, and it will automatically print it. Setting this up varies from manufacturer to manufacturer, so if you're having trouble, we recommend looking at the manual for your printer or getting in touch with the manufacturer.
Also, we're using Gmail as an example here, and other email clients may have a slightly different process or interface. The process should be fairly similar, though.
Step 1: Open your preferred email client and create a new email.
Step 2: Enter the printer's email address in the To field.
Step 3: Choose the Attach button. This may look like a paperclip or some other icon, depending on your email client.
Step 4: Navigate to the file you want to print. It may be located in the default Files app on your phone, Google Drive, Google Photos, or a third-party app. You'll need to know where it's located to attach it and print it.
Step 5: Once the file has been attached, select the Send button.
You can also start this from a slightly different way, by sending the file to your email client directly from an app.
Step 1: Find and open the image or file you want to print. You can do so by navigating to the Files app, Google Photos, Google Drive, or a third-party app.
Step 2: Select the three dots next to the file and then the Share button. Alternatively, you may need to Send a copy in some apps, like in Google Docs.
Step 3: Find your preferred email client and select the icon.
Step 4: Enter the printer’s email address in the To field and tap Send.
Editors' Recommendations iOS 17: How to move notifications to the top of your lock screen These are the 6 biggest Google Pixel 8 problems (and how to fix them) Don’t update your Pixel phone — a new Android update might break it The best Android phones in 2023: the 16 best ones you can buy How to send a text message from a computer Android Google How-To Guides Mobile Google is inching closer to making passwords obsolete. The solution is called "Passkeys," a unique form of password that is stored locally on your phone or PC, just the way a physical security key works. The passkeys are protected behind a layer of authentication, which can be your fingerprint or face scan — or just an on-screen pattern or PIN.
Passkeys are faster, linked across platforms, and save you the hassle of remembering passwords for websites or services that you have subscribed to. There is a smaller scope for human error, and the risks of 2-factor authentication code interception are also reduced.
Mobile After lots of anticipation, Android 14 has landed. For the past few months, we've experimented with Android 14 on a Google Pixel 7a. Surprisingly, the latest major iteration of Google’s mobile operating system is light on aesthetics and dramatic feature additions. Instead, it focuses more on refinements, especially for large-screen devices.
Mobile A new generation of Pixel phones is hitting the shelves, and they boast the latest version of Android 14 out of the box. I’ve been testing the latest version of Google’s mobile OS since the first beta builds arrived, and so far, the experience has been pretty smooth sailing.
Surprisingly, Android 14 doesn’t try to reinvent the wheel in terms of user-facing changes. The UI looks identical to Android 13, and there aren’t many changes that would qualify as a must-have reimagination of the phone experience. But there are a few updates that make it worth the brief “wow” journey of digging into a yearly OS upgrade.
Android 14 has a cool trick for your computer Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
