Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile iPadOS 15: How to use keyboard shortcuts in iPadOS 15 By Tyler Lacoma Close Apple has been offering excellent Magic Keyboards for iPad and iPad Pro models for some time now, with support for an iPad-friendly cursor and other long-awaited features that make it easier than ever to use the iPad as a laptop alternative. Now, with iPadOS 15 , Apple has added another vital keyboard feature: Global key-based shortcuts.
Step 1: Make sure you have a compatible keyboard Step 2: Open up the shortcut menu Step 3: Go through the shortcut sections Step 4: Search for more specific shortcuts Step 5: Master your most useful shortcuts These global shortcuts can make your iPad work much more efficient and faster — but you need to learn them first. Let’s take a look at exactly what to do.
Step 1: Make sure you have a compatible keyboard Julian Chokkattu/Digital Trends For these shortcuts to work, you’ll need a keyboard that’s specifically designed for the iPad. The global shortcuts are fittingly made with the globe key, a special key with a globe icon on it. Keyboards without the globe key won’t be able to use these shortcuts reliably (remapping may be able to work, but that depends on individual keyboard software, so the results may be unpredictable).
Best tablet deals: Save on iPad, Galaxy Tab, Fire tablet, and more The best iPhone 15 Pro Max cases in 2023: the 20 best ones An iPhone that isn’t the iPhone 15 is selling fast in Japan Apple’s own iPad keyboards are an excellent place to start since they all the globe key. Third-party brands are also making certified iPad keyboards that include a globe key, but it’s always a good idea to double-check if you aren’t buying an Apple model.
Step 2: Open up the shortcut menu Image used with permission by copyright holder iPad global shortcuts are designed for ease of use, so you can spend plenty of time getting to know them without having to memorize anything. To begin, connect your keyboard, log in to your iPad home screen, and press and hold the Globe key. This will bring up your global shortcut menu, where all the global shortcuts are collected.
Step 3: Go through the shortcut sections Image used with permission by copyright holder With the shortcut menu open, start by reviewing the global shortcuts that will work no matter what you are doing. If you look at the bottom, you’ll notice four primary categories that you can switch between. This menu is also responsive to touchscreen controls, so you can explore as you see fit. Let’s go over what to expect from each category: System : System shortcuts are for basic iPad management and navigation. If you want to go to a specific place or control how your iPad works, this is the section to learn. It deals with switching between apps, searching your iPad, activating Siri, and using your Control or Notification Center via the keyboard. It’s usually the best place to start when learning the new shortcuts and includes some of the most frequently used commands.
Multitasking : Multitasking is designed for managing many different apps at once and switching between them. If you use your iPad for work or research and find yourself frequently switching between a browser and your email, for example, you may find these shortcuts useful.
Split View : Split View is the iPad mode that allows you to put two apps at once on the screen and view them both at the same time. It’s especially effective on iPad Pros because of their larger screens. These commands will allow you to instantly switch between Split View apps, a feature this mode desperately needed which now makes it much more usable.
Slide Over : Slide Over allows you to place an app in a sort of pop-up window that slides over the primary app or apps that you are using. It’s a useful feature for monitoring chats or other ongoing processes while also viewing your primary app. This section includes shortcuts to control and position the Slide Over app just how you want it.
Step 4: Search for more specific shortcuts Look at the lower-left corner of the menu, and you’ll see the Magnifying Glass icon. This allows you to search for something specific. You can use this tool when you are learning shortcuts and don’t want to go through all the menu sections again to find what you were looking for. It works best if you type in the thing you want to control, such as “Control Center,” “Siri,” or “Split View.” So far, we’ve only been talking about the new global shortcut commands. However, iPadOS also supports more specific shortcuts depending on the app. If you are interested in learning these shortcuts for frequently used apps, you can also open a menu to view them by pressing and holding the Command key. Don’t mix up the global shortcuts and the app-specific shortcuts — and note that either the Command key or the globe key may be used for global shortcuts.
Step 5: Master your most useful shortcuts Apple Once you are comfortable with the global shortcut menu, start practicing with the shortcuts that you’ll be using frequently. Before long, muscle memory will take over and you will be able to apply these shortcuts instantly whenever you want. Some of the most useful shortcuts to start with include: Globe + H : Go to the home screen.
Globe + C : Open the Control Center.
Globe + N : Open the Notification Center.
Shift + Globe + A : Show App Library.
Command + Left/Right : Switch to the previous or next app.
Command + Space : Open search.
Globe + A : Show the Dock.
Globe + Q : Create a Quick Note.
Globe + S : Open Siri.
We encourage you to look through the global menu and find some specific, useful shortcuts based on how you use your iPad. You’ll be moving between apps and adjusting settings in no time.
Editors' Recommendations The iPad is going to get an amazing new feature in 2024 These 5 iPhone 15 problems are annoying. Here’s how to fix them Best iPad deals: Save on 10.2-inch iPad, iPad Pro, and more The best iPhone 15 cases in 2023: our 16 favorites Apple may launch new iPads soon, and you should be excited Apple How-To Apple Apple iPad Mobile Apple raised the bar again at its latest fall event. The iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro Max are the two new top ways to experience Apple's smartphone world. These are the greatest iPhones available, with all of the new features and — excitingly for anyone who travels with a laptop or iPad — a USB-C port at the bottom. The iPhone 15 Pro is the phone to get if you want strong performance paired with a more manageable 6.1-inch display, and many would argue it's the perfect blend of size and power.
The iPhone 15 Pro is easier to handle than the iPhone 15 Pro Max. However, it’s crucial to protect your device from accidental drops and scratches, especially since it is an expensive phone that costs $1,000. Luckily, you can easily safeguard your investment by using a protective case that can withstand the usual hazards of daily use, such as bumps and scratches. We offer a wide range of case options to choose from, including slim cases and rugged cases for maximum protection. Take a look, and you’re sure to find something you’ll love.
Mobile Apple's iPad is undoubtedly one of the most popular tablets on the market right now. There are several different models to choose from, but no matter which one you go with, you'll be getting one of the best tablets out there. Still, Apple provides an abundance of choice here, and with so many different versions — and nearly annual updates — it can be tricky to know which one is the best to get.
All of Apple's iPads are pretty great, and they're each designed with a slightly different audience in mind, so it's hard to pick a single one as "the best." That's why we've broken the list down by categories; after all, there's an ideal iPad for nearly every situation. Whether you're looking for the best overall iPad, the best iPad on a budget, something in the middle of the pack, or even the best small iPad, we've got you covered.
Mobile If your iPhone 15 Pro has been running hotter than expected, then a new patch released by Apple on Wednesday should resolve the problem.
According to Apple, iOS 17.0.3, “addresses an issue that may cause iPhone to run warmer than expected,” while also providing the usual bug fixes and security updates.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
