Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Onyx Boox Tab Ultra C review: you’ve never used a tablet like this By Nadeem Sarwar Close $599.99 Color e-ink screen is unique Easy-to-read display Plenty of customization tricks Extremely good battery life Storage expansion facility Terrific build and great keyboard Runs dated Android 11 experience E-ink holds back performance Not suited for multimedia consumption Awkward fingerprint button placement Living life as a digital nomad has its perks, but too much screen time can be overwhelming. I won’t deny the charm of a pleasingly vivid, pixel-dense, high-refresh-rate OLED panel, but there are times that I really despise looking at a screen. This is especially true when I want to wind out with a neat book after work, only to realize that my entire library lives on Kindle, which is to be accessed on yet another screen.
Onyx Boox Tab Ultra C: design and build Onyx Boox Tab Ultra C: display Onyx Boox Tab Ultra C: software Onyx Boox Tab Ultra C: performance Onyx Boox Tab Ultra C: price and availability Onyx Boox Tab Ultra C: verdict Samsung’s Galaxy Z Fold 4 is currently my trusty companion for smartphone and tablet duties, while my work is divided across an iPad or whatever laptop I am reviewing. It’s a relentless cycle of switching from one great screen to another, but with it comes an endless scope of distraction. I have often wished for a device that is less functional than an Android or iOS device but more than a Kindle e-reader.
You’ve probably never seen an iPhone case like this before This new Android tablet has an e-ink screen that destroys the Kindle Sunbird looks like the iMessage for Android app you’ve been waiting for I know, I know — that’s like asking a genie to make a custom tablet just for my weird needs and self-imposed bottlenecks. Thankfully, I don’t have to hunt for a genie lamp in an Arabian desert, because Onyx sells just the perfect device in the form of a color e-ink tablet called Boox Tab Ultra C.
 But as tailor-made as this sounds, this Onyx tablet is a mixed bag of extreme surprises — both the pleasing and frustrating kind.
Onyx Boox Tab Ultra C: design and build Nadeem Sarwar / Digital Trends Onyx put quite some effort into crafting the Boox Tab Ultra C. It is virtually indistinguishable from the Onyx Tab Ultra , which comes armed with a black-and-white display. This tablet feels like a monolithic hunk of cold metal with an extremely good in-hand feel. Compared to the tenth-gen iPad that’s also made out of lightweight aluminum, the Onyx tablet feels more premium.
But in its pursuit of making a tablet with uncompromising build quality, Onyx appears to have gone slightly overboard. Tipping the scales at 1.05 pounds, holding this tablet for an extended period isn’t a forgiving endeavor for your wrists. Thankfully, the front face has an extra-wide lip alongside one of the vertical edges that makes it easier to get a firm grip on the tablet.
Nadeem Sarwar / Digital Trends The dual-channel speaker is surprisingly loud for an e-reader (which already sounds surprising), and there’s also a microSD card reader on the side. The placement of the fingerprint sensor is “circumstantially” cumbersome. When holding the tablet in landscape orientation, your index finger rests naturally in the fingerprint scanner’s area.
This tablet feels like a monolithic hunk of cold metal with an extremely good in-hand feel.
However, that’s not the orientation in which you want to read your comics, digital copies of newspapers, or even web articles. But when you actually hold the tablet in portrait orientation, either your thumb rests uncomfortably away from the sensor alongside the bottom edge, or you have to grip the tablet in an oddly contorted way to scan your index finger, as depicted below: Nadeem Sarwar / Digital Trends But it’s not just the tablet’s build quality that takes you by surprise. The keyboard folio case – which Onyx sells separately – is uncharacteristically good. I’ve extensively used the folio keyboards offered by Apple and Samsung, but Onyx’s offering is miles ahead.
The case has a beautiful leather finish with a soft touch exterior that makes the whole package look more like a vintage leather diary. It also has a neat loop at the top that opens and shuts close magnetically while also serving as a secure inlet for carrying the bundled stylus. The stylus is also a beautifully crafted piece of hardware that charges wirelessly when attached magnetically over the top edge.
Nadeem Sarwar / Digital Trends The typing experience is also fairly good on the keyboard. The keys are evenly spaced with a subtle inward curve, adequate upward pushback, and good tactile response. Irrespective of whether you are used to Windows or Apple keyboards, the placement of the distinct Command and Control keys will have you feel at home in no time. I particularly love the matte finish over the entire deck, even though it attracts dust particles a little too quickly.
Onyx Boox Tab Ultra C: display Nadeem Sarwar / Digital Trends The tablet comes armed with a 10.3-inch (2480 x 1860) Kaleido 3 panel. But do keep in mind that while reproducing colored content, the screen resolution drops to 1240 x 930 pixels, which is just above HD resolution. This panel can reproduce 4,096 colors and offers 16 levels of grayscale intensity control.
In black-and-white mode, the tablet serves a pixel density of 300 ppi. For comparison, the 10.9-inch Liquid Retina display on the tenth-gen iPad offers a pixel density of 264 ppi. But when you switch to the color mode on Onyx Boox Tab Ultra C, the pixel density falls down to 150 ppi. While that may seem underwhelming, it’s still a massive 200% improvement over the previous-gen e-ink Kaleido Plus panels.
Nadeem Sarwar / Digital Trends The screen is protected by a layer of aluminosilicate material called Onyx Glass that not only reduces the glare but also opts for a unique etching process. The latter doesn’t take a toll on color contrast, which is usually the case when an additional matte layer is applied to the glass.
The display is unlike any I’ve ever seen before.
Coming to the real-world experience, the display is unlike any I’ve ever seen before. It’s almost paper-like, both in terms of feel and color output. The biggest advantage is that the screen is not reflective, which means even at low brightness levels, you can comfortably view content under direct daylight. However, it really comes to life when you are reading color content (such as comics).
But ghosting is still very much apparent, irrespective of the display modes or frame refresh settings you apply. Just take a look at the artifacts from the previous frame visible in this Twitter app image and the gesture trail artifacts after a swipe typing on the SwiftKey keyboard: Multimedia content is a whole other story. While watching videos or scrolling through a feed of colorful content, the shimmer effect is extremely pronounced if color brightness and vividness are set on the higher end of the scale, and dark color enhancement is anything more than 10% or 20%.
Compared to a Kindle, the content consumption experience on the Onyx Boox Tab Ultra C is buttery smooth. If you’re someone who wants to steer clear of the jittery Kindle scrolling experience, topped off with the ability to reproduce colors, the Onyx Boox Tab Ultra C is the only device you should consider getting.
The dual-layer screen supports multi-finger gestures and can recognize 4,096 levels of pressure from the supplied stylus. Now, the stylus acts a bit erratically on a per-app basis. As long as you are sketching on the pre-installed in-house Notes app or Microsoft’s OneNote app, you won’t notice any input lag or latency. But in other third-party note-taking apps , the lag is pretty apparent.
The screen temperature adjustment system here is MOON Light 2, which lets users control the brightness output of the cold and warm LEDs separately. The end result is that you can either turn the screen all-white like a paper or opt for a more comfortable, warmer tone that is slightly yellowish (but easy on the eyes, especially for nighttime reading).
The in-house flicker reduction tech reduces the shimmering effect from the underlying LED lights. Onyx has also amped up the refresh rate output with its BOOX Super Refresh tech, which allows quicker color transition across the panel. The e-ink Kaleido 3 panel used here relies on a tech called Comfort Gaze that cuts down on the amount of blue light reflected from the surface. Lowered blue light exposure ensures a noticeably comfortable viewing experience.
This is how colors look on the Samsung Galaxy Tab S8 and the Onyx tablet Nadeem Sarwar / Digital Trends The operating temperature of this panel varies between negative 15 degrees Centigrade to 65 degrees Centigrade. The makers at E Ink claim the Kaleido 3 tech allows it to operate in harsh conditions without requiring expensive heating or cooling hardware underneath, a perk that also brings down power consumption.
The tablet’s core viewing experience is divided across five self-explanatory profiles: Ultrafast, Fast, Balanced, HD, and Regal. The faster you go, the more details you lose, but the scrolling and frame transition will be smooth. As you lean more towards color reproduction, the transitions get slower, and you will see a lot of ghosting to the point that discerning the on-screen content becomes night impossible.
Nadeem Sarwar / Digital Trends Then there are three separate controls for color brightness, vividness enhancement, and dark color enhancement. Save for reading black-and-white text, I never played with the latter because it absolutely destroys the color saturation and makes everything look like a splotchy dark mess.
For watching videos, if you want any semblance of realistic motion, you need to sacrifice some colors. For me, setting the refresh rate to Ultrafast and keeping the duo of color brightness and vividness enhancement to the lowest value offered the smoothest viewing experience without any visual artifacts or jarring shimmer effect.
Nadeem Sarwar / Digital Trends The Regal profile offers the most rewarding experience while reading comics. Onyx lets you adjust the refresh rate on a per-app basis and also perform DPI adjustments for a select few note-taking apps and reading apps. You can also adjust the anti-flicker strength, but it didn’t really offer any tangible benefit for my usage.
Onyx Boox Tab Ultra C: software Nadeem Sarwar / Digital Trends While the software is barebones and Android 11 doesn’t instill much faith, there are a handful of opt-in convenient shortcuts to help users. In fact, Onyx offers a set of controls that you won’t find on mainstream Android tablets, but they make perfect sense on this color e-ink slate.
For example, you can swipe alongside the left edge of the screen to adjust volume, while the right edge allows brightness adjustment. Thankfully, you can customize each edge gesture to handle color enhancement level, vividness adjustment, dark color enhancement, and screen temperature.
In a similar fashion, the inward swipe gesture from the left and right edges can be assigned functions like back or home screen shortcut, taking screenshots, cleaning the background cache, launching the app switcher, opening the e-ink controls, or putting the device on sleep mode.
Nadeem Sarwar / Digital Trends When switching from the three-button UI control layout at the bottom of the screen to navigation gestures, you can once again customize the destination of swipe gestures by choosing between 10 options. That’s pretty convenient, and even though there’s a small learning curve here, it’s still a level of versatility that not even feature-packed Android skins like One UI or OxygenOS have to offer.
If you want an even higher level of control over core functions, there’s a built-in navigation ball function. It offers nine controls that you can choose to appear arranged in a vertical line, horizontal array, or arc-shaped fan array anywhere on the screen. You can also choose to permanently pin some of these functions at any place on the screen.
The quick ball feature allows you to only put nine quick controls on the screen, but you pick each button’s assigned task from a set of 26 functions. You can further play with the opacity and size of these quick-action buttons and even control their visibility based on on-screen activity and placement.
Nadeem Sarwar / Digital Trends Android’s three-finger gesture for taking screenshots is here. But to my utter surprise, I found that the Onyx Boox Tab Ultra C not only lets you record the screen, but also lets you adjust the resolution, bitrate, audio source control, and frame rate (24/30/48/60 fps) of the screen capture clips.
When you create an Onyx account, the company offers you 10GB of free cloud storage for syncing your notes and other content. However, the tablet offers dedicated native options to sync your notes with other powerful note-taking platforms such as Microsoft’s One Note and Evernote. For other files, you can enable automatic syncing with services such as Google Drive, Dropbox, OneDrive, and Baidu Cloud.
Onyx Boox Tab Ultra C: performance Nadeem Sarwar / Digital Trends Onyx has armed the Boox Tab Ultra C with Qualcomm Snapdragon 662 chipset, which has already appeared inside a handful of value-for-money smartphones offered by Chinese brands like Xiaomi. For a colorified e-ink tablet that primarily targets reading or document adjustment, this tablet is a little too powerful. I have personally tried a phone with the same Qualcomm chip and came out impressed with the raw performance. Inside the Onyx Boox Tab Ultra C, it’s a whole different picture.
Whatever you are doing on this unique tablet, that activity has more to do with your screen preferences than the processing firepower under the hood. Can it run a demanding racing game like Asphalt 9 ? Yes, it can. But should you run Asphalt 9 on the Onyx Boox Tab Ultra C? Absolutely not.
The Boox Tab Ultra C is a little too powerful.
The game is barely playable even when the screen refresh rate is set to the Ultrafast preset, vividness enhancement is set to a minimum, and in-game graphics quality is set to the lowest default value. While detail loss is apparent in the muted colors, what really hurts the prospects is the low touch sampling rate of the panel, which really makes it a jarring experience trying to steer the car with tap-based touch inputs.
Of course, Asphalt 9 is a visually demanding game with tons of dramatic frame shifts loaded with colors and shadow rendering. However, if you try to see any of that in action by boosting up the color profile and vividness, while simultaneously switching to Balanced, HD, or Regal profile, prepare your eyes for some dizzyingly bad ghosting and frame artifacts that make it nigh impossible to track the motion — especially for a car drifting at high speeds.
Nadeem Sarwar / Digital Trends In this scenario, you dearly wish for a quicker frame refresh. Even if you set the Onyx Boox tab Ultra C to refresh the on-screen content after every single tap to erase ghosts of the previous frame, the visual experience is still extremely unpleasant. However, if you switch to something less resource-intensive and visually simpler, like Angry Birds , you will get a much better experience.
For such games, you can even boost the color profile and vividness, and still enjoy a fluid experience, as long as the refresh mode hovers between Ultrafast and Fast values. However, for its intended use case, which is predominantly a mix of reading and jotting down notes, the Onyx Boox Tab Ultra is adequately powerful.
Battery mileage would vary depending on how you push the tablet. With about two-three hours of reading, daily note-taking, and occasional reading of web articles, the Onyx Boox Tab Ultra C lasted an impressive four to five days.
Nadeem Sarwar / Digital Trends However, once I started pushing it as a dedicated work machine, which involved researching and writing articles for nearly eight hours each day, handling emails, and running communication apps like Slack and Microsoft Teams in the background, the battery drained fully within about two days.
That’s still a whole lot better than mainstream tablets like the Galaxy Tab S8 Plus and the iPad Pro. Just don’t try to get multimedia tasks like image editing done on this tablet. The frame lag would simply make you want to pull out your hair, while the ghosting and dead colors will suck the creative juices out of your brain.
Onyx Boox Tab Ultra C: price and availability The Onyx Boox Tab Ultra C is an extremely odd device. Actually, it’s a darn expensive and extremely odd device.
Onyx is asking $600 for this tablet, a price tag that even makes the iPad Air and the OnePlus Pad weep sheepishly with a sarcastic grin.
Onyx Boox Tab Ultra C: verdict Nadeem Sarwar / Digital Trends The Tab Ultra C is no performance champion. It lacks a 3.5mm headphone jack. And even though it offers access to the entire Play Store, almost every app runs with its own set of sacrifices. To put it simply, you definitely can’t use it as a regular Android tablet , unless all your work entails is reading PDFs and writing texts.
But on the positive side, this is the best color e-ink panel you will find on a tablet. The experience of reading books and comics on this machine is simply unmatched. Build quality is terrific, and the keyboard folio case is in a league of its own. If you look at it as a standalone e-reader slate, the Onyx Boox Tab Ultra C is the most capable and versatile tablet on the planet by a huge margin.
But there’s a caveat here. This is a tablet that you will either love to your heart’s content or chuck in a bin out of sheer functional bottlenecks. There’s absolutely no middle ground here, especially considering that price tag. You must really, really want it, to consider spending on it.
Editors' Recommendations The best Android tablets in 2023: the 10 best ones you can buy The Galaxy Tab S9 Ultra looks like one of 2023’s most exciting tablets You’ve never seen a smartwatch like the new Huawei Watch Buds Google Chrome is getting the Android tablet update you’ve been waiting for The Zenfone 9 looks like the small 2022 flagship you’ve been waiting for Android Google Product Reviews Tablet Reviews Mobile Samsung finally launched its newest trio of Galaxy Tab S8 tablets during its Samsung Unpacked February event, and all of them turned out to be mostly in line with what we were expecting.
While many buyers will be happy with the Galaxy Tab S8 or S8 Plus, the S8 Ultra is the company's most premium option and is certain to turn the heads of power users. Its noticeably larger size is an attractive feature all by itself, but Samsung hasn't stopped the upgrades there. The S8 Ultra is also packed with a variety of internal improvements over its smaller siblings and is clearly geared toward productivity and people who work from home. These improvements will come at a higher asking price, of course.
Better, faster, stronger Mobile A new year approaches, which means a new slate of smartphones will start to hit in a few months. One of the first that we’ll see in 2024 should be from OnePlus with its flagship OnePlus 12.
The OnePlus 11 is an excellent phone, as we indicated in our review. It’s one of the best phones you can get in 2023, and is right up there with great competitors like the Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra, Google Pixel 8 Pro, and iPhone 15 Pro Max.
Mobile If you were hoping that the recently released Apple Watch Ultra 2 will appear with a discount in this year's Black Friday deals, you're in luck because the smartwatch's 49mm, GPS + Cellular model is currently $60 off from Amazon. From $799, the wearable device is down to $739 -- it's still not cheap, but it's rare to enjoy savings when buying an Apple product that's just a couple of months old. There's no telling how long the offer will remain online though, so before it gets taken down, push through with your purchase.
Why you should buy the Apple Watch Ultra 2 We tagged the Apple Watch Ultra 2 as the best premium smartwatch for the iPhone in our list of the best smartwatches, and at first glance, it's obvious why. The 49mm titanium case and Always-On OLED touchscreen will catch anybody's attention because of their size and brightness, while the wearable device itself is very fast and smooth because it's powered by Apple's new S9 chipset. The Apple Watch Ultra 2 can last up to 36 hours on a single charge that may be extended to up to 72 hours in Low Power Mode, and it offers a comprehensive suite of health-related and fitness features. It also comes with the customizable Action button for a more convenient way of accessing your apps.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
