Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Onyx Boox Tab Ultra review: an Android tablet unlike any other By Prakhar Khanna Close $600.00 Big anti-glare display with a matte finish Fast for an e-ink device Excellent battery life Brilliant keyboard case Comes with a stylus Expensive Keyboard is sold separately The Boox Tab Ultra is more than just an e-ink reader with scribbling capabilities. Unlike other devices with e-ink displays, the Tab Ultra runs Android. Yes, the same Android you know and love, just on a device with an e-ink screen.
Onyx Boox Tab Ultra: design and display Onyx Boox Tab Ultra: accessories Onyx Boox Tab Ultra: performance and software Onyx Boox Tab Ultra: price and availability Onyx Boox Tab Ultra: verdict As a result, you can run a full suite of Google apps, watch YouTube videos or browse the internet on Chrome. It is filled to the brim with features, which make it a unique proposition. But at $600, it costs a premium. Should you spend that much on the most powerful e-ink tablet on the market? I used the device for more than a month, and I have a definite answer for you.
The Galaxy Tab S9 Ultra looks like one of 2023’s most exciting tablets This Android tablet uses the internet without Wi-Fi or a SIM card Galaxy Tab S8 Ultra is the king of Samsung’s tablet lineup Onyx Boox Tab Ultra: design and display Previous Next 1 2 Prakhar Khanna / Digital Trends Prakhar Khanna / Digital Trends The Boox Tab Ultra is built out of aluminum, and it feels solid in the hand. The 0.26-inch thickness combined with 480 grams of weight makes it a bit difficult to use with one hand while reading. However, it’s not just another e-reader but a full-fledged Android tablet , so the weight is justified.
On the top of the device lies a power button, which doubles as a fingerprint sensor that works well. There are no other buttons on the tablet. Despite the presence of speakers at the top and bottom, the Boox Tab Ultra doesn’t offer volume rockers. To adjust the volume, you can either use the keyboard or change the levels via the software. It makes sense because you are unlikely to listen to music or watch videos on this device. But on the off chance you do, the speakers are there.
At the bottom of the Boox Tab Ultra is a USB-C charging port and microSD card slot for expandable storage, which wouldn’t be needed by many since you get 128GB of onboard storage. You might only need it if you have a lot of documents you need to scan and save, and/or a big e-book collection.
Prakhar Khanna / Digital Trends The Boox Tab Ultra features a 10.3-inch e-ink display. It’s a brilliant panel that delivers rich contrast with deep blacks. The display lies under an anti-glare coating, which makes it easier for you to read in brightly-lit conditions. The matte finish is pleasing to the eye as well.
On the back lies a 16MP camera, which can only be used to scan documents. All you need to do is point the camera at the paper document and click a photo. Boox’s proprietary software turns it into a digital scan. Optical character recognition can also turn English words from photos into a text file.
Onyx Boox Tab Ultra: accessories Prakhar Khanna / Digital Trends The Boox Tab Ultra has a keyboard accessory that costs an extra $110. It is on the pricier side, but if you plan on doing anything related to word processing, you might want to buy it anyway. It uses pogo pins to attach to the tablet. Notably, you get only one slant angle to work on, but it should be enough for your browsing and typing needs.
After writing a few articles on the tablet using the keyboard, I can confidently say that there has been no cost-cutting with the experience. The keys have good travel with an evenly spaced layout and feel good to type on. But you might experience a delay between you typing a letter and it appearing on the screen. There is no keyboard latency, but it’s likely because of the screen refresh rate. You get used to it after a while, but as with any e-ink screen, it’s not instantaneous. There is no trackpad, so you’ll need to scroll with your fingers on the screen.
Prakhar Khanna / Digital Trends The keyboard also doubles as a cover with a leather finish, which feels nice in the hand, and makes the device look more premium.
The Boox Tab Ultra comes with the Pen 2 Pro stylus, which is one of the better styli I have used on any device. It magnetically attaches to the right side of the tablet and can detect over 4,000 levels of pressure.
There is minimal latency, so you’ll enjoy sketching on the Boox Tab Ultra. However, it misses out on tilt sensitivity. That said, using the Pen 2 Pro is a delightful experience. I used it mostly to sign documents, but the rubber tip makes for a good build because it offers friction against the display, which is important for sketching. The palm rejection is on point as well, and I didn’t experience any false touch issues.
Onyx Boox Tab Ultra: performance and software Prakhar Khanna / Digital Trends The Boox Tab Ultra is powered by Qualcomm’s Snapdragon 662 chip, paired with 4GB of RAM and 128GB of storage. It might not look enough on paper for an Android tablet, but these specs make the Boox Tab Ultra the most powerful e-ink tablet. It runs two-versions-old Android 11, but since it’s heavily skinned with Boox’s software, it’s not a big deal.
I got used to the gestures and navigation easily. You can swipe down from the top to access the notification panel. The apps you download can be reached by a swipe from the right to move to the next page.
A swipe up from the bottom right leads you to adjust the refresh rate with four options: HD, Balanced, Fast, and Ultrafast. It also lets you adjust the dark and light colors to soothe your eyes. The Ultrafast option makes the tablet feel like a usual Android device. The slower refresh rate is for reading.
These specs make the Boox Tab Ultra the most powerful e-ink tablet.
If you compare it with other Android tablets or an iPad, the Boox Tab Ultra is a slow tablet. But if you compare it with other e-ink tablets, the device is on the faster side. Once you get used to the speeds of e-ink, you’ll be comfortable using the tablet. But it includes getting used to an app launch taking one or two seconds.
The presence of the Google Play Store means you can practically install any app, even high-end games. But I’ll advise you not to install games on the Boox Tab Ultra because the refresh rate will kill the gaming experience. It is in no way a gaming tablet. I installed apps like YouTube, Google Chrome, Docs, and even Twitter – they all worked well.
The Boox Tab Ultra ships with a native e-book reader, which offers Shakespeare’s complete works. I used the Amazon Kindle app to read e-books, and Chrome to browse through articles.
The tablet lasts for weeks on a single charge. I have only charged it once during my six-week usage. I took the device around cafes and made it my bedtime reading companion. The battery life is excellent.
Onyx Boox Tab Ultra: price and availability The Boox Tab Ultra costs $600 for the tablet and stylus, while the keyboard case costs an extra $110. It is available via Amazon and other retailers in the U.S.
Onyx Boox Tab Ultra: verdict Prakhar Khanna / Digital Trends The Boox Tab Ultra is expensive at $600, and add to that the $110 keyboard case, it will set you back at $710. There is a very specific use case that appeals to me.
If you want an e-ink display that is not just another e-reader but also doubles as your browsing device, allowing you to read online articles, and write blogs, the Boox Tab Ultra is your device. With its extra capabilities like browsing and sketching, it has the potential to replace your Kindle and tablet if you do not consume content on the latter.
If you want a full-fledged tablet where you can watch videos or sketch professionally, you are better off with an iPad Air at this price. The Kindle Scribe is considerably cheaper and supports drawing/sketching, but the rest of its feature set is considerably limited. If you find yourself in a unique position where you have some extra cash to spend and want a tablet/e-reader combo unlike anything else, only the Boox Tab Ultra fits that bill.
Editors' Recommendations The best Android tablets in 2023: the 10 best ones you can buy This new Android tablet has an e-ink screen that destroys the Kindle Google Drive, Docs, and other apps are getting way better on Android tablets Lenovo’s $230 Tab P11 takes care of your stay-at-home tablet needs Cheap Tablet Alert: Samsung Galaxy Tab A 8.0 is just $100, because Prime Day Android eReader Reviews Google Product Reviews Deals Can't wait any longer for Prime Day deals to land on October 13? If you're in the market for a shiny new tablet, there are bound to be some fantastic Prime Day tablet deals coming your way -- but there's no need to wait. We're as excited about Prime Day as you are, so we've hunted down some of the best tablet deals you can shop right now, from Samsung Galaxy tablet deals to deals on the latest Apple iPad. But you'd better move fast -- they won't be around forever.
-- $118, was $150 Deals Android devices command the lion’s share of the smartphone market, but Apple has held its position as the top tablet maker for years now. The Apple iPad has stood as the tallest for awhile now, but other tablet makers are quickly catching up, with newer devices like the excellent Samsung Galaxy Tab S4 – which is now on sale on for less than $500 – proving that Android tablets can definitely deliver what it takes to compete with high-end iOS devices like the iPad Pro.
Given Samsung’s status as a dominant player on the smartphone landscape, it should come as no surprise that this company also makes the best Android tablet out there today. The Samsung Galaxy Tab S4 is our favorite Android-based iPad Pro alternative thanks to its superb build quality, gorgeous 10.5-inch 1600p display, long battery life, and solid performance for streaming and multi-tasking. Four built-in speakers are also a notable upgrade over the typical dual (or even single) speakers you see featured on most tablets.
Mobile According to Samsung, the aging Galaxy Tab S2 and Tab S3 tablets still sell well, as they fill a void for those not wanting to splash out on the expensive Galaxy Tab S4, but still want a strong tablet at a decent price. To ensure these people don’t have to make do with an older device, it has introduced the new Galaxy Tab S5e. The "E" in the name stands for Essential, which Samsung says denotes that it’s still a premium product, just with a more affordable price attached.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
