Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Gaming Reviews American Arcadia review: ingenious spy thriller is a can’t-miss November game By Giovanni Colantonio Close Great retro future art style Gripping story Strong lead performance Clever puzzle platforming Satire loses its focus at times Chase scenes get repetitive Trevor Hills is a perfectly average guy. He wakes up every morning, follows the same routine, works at his boring desk job, and heads home without making a fuss. He’s an ideal all-American good boy — and it’s about to get him killed.
Under the dome Run and hack That’s the juicy premise that fuels American Arcadia , the latest project from Call of the Sea developer Out of the Blue. The standout puzzle-platformer takes the gameplay ideas of moody genre classics like Limbo and works them into a small-scale Hollywood spy thriller about the world’s dullest action hero. He’s not running and jumping from a serial killer or giant monster, but something far more threatening: a media mega-power that’s decided his boring life simply isn’t profitable enough anymore.
Qualcomm made a new handheld video game console that you can’t buy GameStop will require masks for customers, but employees can’t enforce the rule American Arcadia is a sharp dystopian satire that takes jabs at capitalism, Disney, and reality TV. Imagine a playable cross between The Truman Show and The Fugitive , all dressed up in 1970s retro-future style. Out of the Blue delivers on that premise with clever gameplay that replicates the thrills of cinematic chase scenes and hacker flicks alike in colorful 2.5D. It’s a small rallying cry for ordinary people who just wish they could break free from the dehumanizing corporate world.
Under the dome When I’m first introduced to the world of American Arcadia , everything seems hunky-dory. The opening moments introduce me to Trevor as he goes about his day to day in the titular Arcadia. I get some calm moments to soak in the intricately designed “city of the future,” a 2.5D metropolis that takes colorful inspiration from 1970s retro future design, before I find out everything around me is a lie. It turns out Trevor is unwittingly the star of an enormous reality TV show set in a city trapped inside a dome.
It plays like an interactive combination of The Truman Show , The Fugitive , and Free Guy … That’s where American Arcadia gets into some juicy satire. A mysterious hacker named Angela informs Trevor that he’s one of the show’s least popular cast members, because he’s just too boring for viewers. Since keeping a cast member alive isn’t cheap, the megacompany that runs the program plans to cut him … permanently. It’s a sharp-witted premise that takes aim at the way capitalism reduces people and workers to dollars and cents. That’s especially resonant right now, as the video game industry is in the midst of mass layoffs that have carelessly thrown thousands of developers out to sea. The modern workforce is starting to feel as cutthroat as a TV show competition.
Some of those satirical wires do get a bit crossed during the surprisingly long adventure. Commentary on reality TV culture gets mixed up with jabs at Disney, a company that the game’s nefarious media corporation seems clearly modeled after. Those two pieces don’t always fit together cleanly, but it does let American Arcadia paint a broad picture of our country’s obsession with money, power, and consumption.
Out of the Blue Even if it’s thematically imperfect, the story is a compelling setup for a good old Hollywood thriller. It plays like an interactive combination of The Truman Show , The Fugitive , and Free Guy , with the average Trevor becoming an unwitting action hero as he tries to escape the dome. Credit goes to Spider-Man voice actor Yuri Lowenthal here, who turns Trevor into a lovable loser that I can’t help but root for. Lowenthal nails Trevor’s slow-building frustration, as each new twist he learns about Arcadia shows just how little control he has over his own life. By the end, he completes his transformation into a true everyman: a guy who just wishes everyone would leave him alone.
Run and hack To deliver its Hollywood premise, American Arcadia adopts an action-adventure setup that’s most similar to games like Limbo.
 Trevor’s escape has him sneaking past guards with a bit of puzzling and doing some fast-paced urban platforming during chase sequences. The added twist, though, is that players also control Angela, who can remotely hack Trevor’s surroundings to help him escape. It’s a one-player co-op premise that works surprisingly well and paves the way for some ingenious moments.
… a smart spy thriller with varied set pieces.
During one early chase scene, I see a guard coming down an elevator. He has a view of Trevor’s escape route through clear glass, but there’s a quick junction where the glass is covered. I get Trevor into cover and take over a security camera as Angela, who hacks the elevator just at the right moment so that the guard’s vantage point is blocked. A later stealth segment has Angela hopping between drones patrolling a room, using them to stun wandering guards and clear the way for Trevor. Inventive moments like that bridge the gap between action and puzzle to create a smart spy thriller with varied set pieces.
Some segments play with the format even more. Occasionally, I take direct control of Angela as she infiltrates the enemy headquarters in full 3D, first-person perspective. An early situation has me hacking security cameras by placing dummy video feeds in front of the right camera and sleuthing out a door code for a locked server room. At its best, American Arcadia lets me live out all my hacker movie dreams.
Out of the Blue There are enough creative gameplay ideas here that American Arcadia never fully runs out of steam, though it is stretched thin across its seven chapters. Chase sequences can get repetitive after a while, especially due to some inconsistent checkpointing that often kicks me back a bit farther than I’d like during tricky sequences that require a little experimentation. My attention never wanders for long, though; there’s always another crowd-pleasing moment ready to crank the approval rating back up.
And audience approval is everything in American Arcadia.
 It’s the metric by which a billion-dollar entertainment enterprise gets to decide who is profitable enough to live and die. That heightened premise is terrifyingly not far off from our own reality, where hundreds of lives can be upended with the snap of one rich executive’s fingers. The city of Arcadia may seem like a distant dystopia, but the sobering finale reminds us that the world outside of its domed walls isn’t always much better. All we can do is keep running and hope we find our way out eventually.
American Arcadia was tested on PC and Legion Go.
Editors' Recommendations It’s the last day of Nintendo’s April Indie Sale — don’t miss these 7 great games PC Gaming Show: 3 can’t-miss games from the E3 livestream Can’t afford the Nintendo Switch Lite? You can now put it on layaway at GameStop Game Reviews Product Reviews Gaming We've had a dancing game and musou spinoff, but now the Persona 5 cast has entered the realm of tactics with Persona 5 Tactica. The translation feels obvious when you think about it, but naturally, there have to be some changes to make it fit. For fans of the original JRPG, experimenting with the new combat system will take a little getting used to, especially relearning what skills are best. This game is quite friendly to those who are not as well-versed in the genre and allows you to try out your build and completely rework it if you need to. If you've invested your GP in some skills you're unhappy with, here's how you can respec in Persona 5 Tactica.
How to respec in Persona 5 Tactica Each character has their own skill tree that you can invest your GP into for buffs and skills. The way you invest early on can make the first few hours either much more difficult or a smoother experience. If you're feeling some buyer's remorse, respecing any character is not only easy, but can be done as many times as you like at no cost.
Gaming Nintendo’s Super Mario series is so monumental to the medium of video games that you might even think of the mustachioed plumber when you hear “video games” mentioned at all. From his earliest days when he battled Donkey Kong as “Jumpman.” to his latest adventures on the Nintendo Switch, to his latest movie appearance in The Super Mario Bros. Movie, Mario has consistently been one of the greatest characters in video games. He’s such an iconic character that countless video games have had him as the star, and here we have ranked them.
For our list, we had two main criteria. First, the games have to be platformers -- either 2D or 3D. This eliminates Mario sports games, the Mario Kart series, role-playing games, and all the Mario Parties. Secondly, the games have to have Mario himself as the lead character. This eliminated Super Mario Land 3 and Super Mario World 2: Yoshi’s Island. In the end, we were left with 22 games. None of them are bad, but we did have to name a loser. We also chose to omit The Lost Levels and instead considered Super Mario Bros. 2 as the definitive second game in the series.
Gaming Rocksteady made a name for itself as one of the first teams to make a universally acclaimed superhero game with Batman: Arkham Asylum. It followed that success with two sequels, the even more beloved Batman: Arkham City and the divisive, though still fantastic Batman: Arkham Knight. Fans were left waiting to hear what this studio would tackle next. Most assumed it would be another DC property, since it is owned by Warner Bros. Games, and those suspicions turned out to be right on the money, though with a property not many would have predicted.
Suicide Squad: Kill the Justice League was given a formal announcement as the newest project from Rocksteady at the DC FanDome event in 2020. At the time, outside of the graphic novels, of course, we only had the one flop of a film based on this antihero group, so many fans were hesitant to see Rocksteady tackle this property. Now that we've gotten a few trailers and footage of gameplay, however, it has become clear that Rocksteady hasn't lost its touch. We took on this suicide mission for you and made off with all the details you need to know about Suicide Squad: Kill the Justice League.
Release date Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
