Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Gaming Reviews Like a Dragon Gaiden: The Man Who Erased His Name review: playing the hits By Tomas Franzese Close $50.00 Kiryu gets a strong arc Some very emotional scenes Agent fighting style is a blast Entertaining sub-stories Repetitive plot beats Combat lacks innovation Tedious Akame Network Within the first couple hours of Like a Dragon Gaiden: The Man Who Erased His Name , Kiryu and his friends are ambushed or cornered by aggressors while minding their own business at least three times. I’m always happy to watch Kiryu beat up some creeps who picked the wrong fight, but as it happened again and again, these moments began to wear thin. There are only so many times you can play that scene before surprise turns to tedium, especially considering how many times conflicts in the Like a Dragon series start the same way.
Kiryu’s quest Like a Yakuza Side hustles This is emblematic of Like a Dragon Gaiden as a whole: It’s a side story that replays the series’ greatest hits to varying degrees of success. The main purpose of this game is to serve as a shorter, action-focused interquel to 2020’s Yakuza: Like a Dragon.
 It explains what Kiryu was doing during the events of that game and serves as a sendoff to his personal struggles before what could be his final appearance in 2024’s Like a Dragon: Infinite Wealth.
All Master System game locations in Like a Dragon Gaiden: The Man Who Erased His Name Like a Dragon: Infinite Wealth will kick off a crowded 2024 for RPG lovers Sega explains why it’s officially ditching the Yakuza name for Like a Dragon Those who enjoy the more action-focused Like a Dragon titles and are heavily invested in Kiryu’s journey will find plenty of compelling narrative beats in Like a Dragon Gaiden: The Man Who Erased His Name.
 But despite its short length, the narrative structure and gameplay of Like a Dragon Gaiden can feel quite repetitive and played out at times.
Kiryu’s quest Like a Dragon Gaiden: The Man Who Erased His Name lays out Kiryu’s main struggle in that lengthy title. Following the events of Yakuza 6: The Song of Life , the series’ protagonist has given up his identity to protect an orphanage in Okinawa. He now works for a secret Japanese government organization as an agent with the code name Joryu. His situation gets much more complicated when some Yakuza discover that Kiryu is still alive and want to bring him back into the fold for a plan to dissolve the organized crime scene in Japan altogether.
You might recognize that last plot beat if you played Yakuza: Like a Dragon , and that’s because much of this game takes place concurrently with that adventure. Kiryu’s adventure offers more insight into what had to happen for that dissolution plan to go through. If Yakuza: Like a Dragon were to be adapted into a season of television, Like a Dragon Gaiden feels like it’d be that season’s B-plot.
Sega While this is technically a side story in the grander narrative of the Like a Dragon franchise, it ties up many loose ends for Kiryu’s journey. Developer RGG Studio writes some of the most compelling characters in games, and that’s no different here.
Like a Dragon Gaiden explores what drives someone to crime, how power corrupts, and what someone has to hold on to after making the ultimate sacrifice while still living to tell the tale.
In practice, Like a Dragon Gaiden feels like a band playing its greatest hits before releasing a new album. It references most of the franchise’s most important narrative constructions, characters, and moments in some fashion. While that makes this game excellent in terms of fan service and character development, its plot does get repetitive as a result. It features a glut of ambushes, shocking betrayals, or reveals meant to surprise players. These are the kinds of twists that helped establish the Like a Dragon franchise as gaming’s greatest soap opera, so it’s not surprising that RGG Studio features them in this “best of”-style adventure.
It’s a by-the-numbers conclusion to Kiryu’s journey rather than a revelatory new chapter … As someone who’s played many games in the series and knows how things play out in Yakuza: Like a Dragon , these overused moments feel stale at this point in the series’ long life. That might mean Like a Dragon Gaiden is better for newcomers, but its fan service focus means those players won’t get as much out of those aspects of the story. That puts it in a weird spot.
Gaiden has some fantastic moments; one particular scene near the end nearly left me in tears as it felt like the moment Kiryu’s long, arduous journey was building toward. There’s just a lot of unoriginal setup to reach that point.
It’s a by-the-numbers conclusion to Kiryu’s journey rather than a revelatory new chapter in the Like a Dragon saga. And while that is how RGG positioned this release by putting Gaiden (which means side story) in the title, that doesn’t mean there wasn’t an opportunity to try some new ideas here. That’s a shame, as Gaiden does feature some of the best-written characters and scenes of the year.
Like a Yakuza Like a Dragon Gaiden is an action game, not an RPG like the upcoming Like a Dragon: Infinite Wealth.
 It’s a combo-based brawler where players can switch between styles midbattle while constantly building up “Heat” used to perform powerful Heat Action attacks. If you’ve played any Like a Dragon games that Kiryu starred in, you’ll be familiar with this gameplay style.
Like a Dragon Gaiden doesn’t do anything drastic to change it up. In fact, it reuses most of its Heat Action animations and only has two fighting styles.
Combat hasn’t changed or been improved upon much from previous games in the series.
One is the Yakuza style, which primarily consists of slower, stronger attacks against one opponent. The other, which is more fun to play around with, is Agent Style. Faster-paced and meant to be used against large groups of enemies, this fighting style takes advantage of a lot of James Bond-style gadgets that Kiryu can use to do things like whip multiple enemies around or call in drones for offensive and defensive support. Whenever I’d get into a fight, my strategy would almost always be to thin the herd and whittle down every enemy’s health with Agent attacks before going in for the finishing blow with Yakuza combos and Heat Actions.
It’s enjoyable, but not exactly new. While the Agent gadgets do create some fresh moments, combat hasn’t changed or been improved upon much from previous games in the series. It’s actually a bit more limited, with only two styles instead of four.
Like a Dragon Gaiden doesn’t feel like a grand sendoff to this old gameplay style; it just feels like one more iteration before RGG Studio moves on to turn-based RPGs permanently.
Sega While Sega has said that Like a Dragon Gaiden is meant to be a smaller game, it still took me nearly 12 hours to beat. That’s a bit shorter than other games in this franchise, but still not a playtime to scoff at for a single-player adventure. There is still a lot to sink one’s teeth into here, especially if you’re down to engage with all of the side content like I am.
Side hustles As is the case with all Like a Dragon games, Gaiden does a fantastic job at creating what feels like a living, breathing Japanese city with tons of things to do in it. Most of the adventure takes place in Sotenbori; in fact, this might be the only Like a Dragon game not to feature Kamurocho at all. While the series’ most iconic city isn’t here, I learned to fall in love with the historically less-explored Sotenbori. I was familiar with almost every nook and cranny of the city by the end of the adventure.
Sega There are lots of minigames to engage with. These range from more standard games like Go and Blackjack to weird ones like a live-action Cabaret minigame where Kiryu has to make the correct choice to woo the cabaret girl he’s talking to.
Like a Dragon Gaiden also lets players travel to The Castle, a luxurious, boat-based theme park for the rich that’s filled with more minigames like the Coliseum.
With the Coliseum mode, players can do various one-on-one challenge fights or team-based brawls with Kiryu or characters recruited during the adventure. This essentially serves as the endgame for Like a Dragon Gaiden.
 While I’d had enough of its combat systems by the game’s conclusion, those who enjoy these brawls could lose a lot of time getting through all these Coliseum fights and leveling up every potential individual fighter.
Side stories are unpredictable and comedic … The content that always appeals to me the most in Like a Dragon games is the weird and quirky sub-stories, though.
Like a Dragon Gaiden features quite a few of them. One standout pokes fun at ChatGPT as Kiryu tries to help someone who employs an AI chatbot to help him woo a girl. As always, side stories are unpredictable and comedic, balancing out the more serious crime epic at the heart of the series.
What’s less exciting is how players actually stumble into those stories. In previous games, players could dynamically come across side stories while exploring the city, which emboldened the already fantastic world design and made RGG’s cities enchanting places that people like me would eagerly want to return to with each new game. In Like a Dragon Gaiden , almost all sub-stories are activated through a frustrating new feature: the Akame Network.
Akame is a major player in the story and a well-connected person in Sotenbori’s underground and homeless scenes. The conceit in most of Like a Dragon Gaiden is that people have come to Akame with requests, and she’s having Kiryu fulfill them. As a reward, Kiryu gets money and Akame points, which can be spent on character ability upgrades or items in her shop. That adds a surprising amount of tedium to a formerly elegant exploration formula. To start a story, players have to run back to Akame’s hideout and accept the mission, triggering a briefing. It’s easy to zone out when 10 sub-missions appear at once and a few long minutes are spent going through setup. It’s a time-consuming process, and that bleeds into other areas of the design, including clunky inventory management.
Sega Instead of creating emergent moments, it feels more like I’m checking items off a to-do list here. Plenty of smaller encounters that can up the Akame Network’s ranking are scattered throughout Sotenbori as well, but these lack the depth or personalities of full sub-stories. Most of them are short fetch quests that usually boil down to giving someone an item, taking a picture of something, or doing a quick fight.
These may sound like small problems, but like the constant ambushes that threw me off at the start, they speak to the most significant issue with Like a Dragon Gaiden.
 While the story is a satisfying solo moment for the series’ most iconic character, there isn’t as much creativity here as the series usually delivers. Those who’ve already played through every Like a Dragon game might not mind, but those not as familiar are likely better off just watching a story recap and waiting for the lengthy RPG Like a Dragon: Infinite Wealth to release next year.
Like a Dragon Gaiden: The Man Who Erased His Name was tested on Xbox Series X.
Editors' Recommendations You have to see this chaotic Like a Dragon-themed wrestling match All Gold Ball locations in Like a Dragon Gaiden: The Man Who Erased His Name Like a Dragon Gaiden will come with an Infinite Wealth demo Game Reviews Product Reviews Gaming As you may have heard, Sony has released a PS5 Slim version, and we're already starting to see it on the market. In fact, if you want to grab one right now, Walmart is selling a PS5 disc slim bundle with Modern Warfare III for just $500. That essentially means that you get MW3 for free as part of the bundle, and even though it's not that highly rated, it's still a free game that you'd otherwise not get, so it's well worth picking up.
Why you should buy the new PS5 Slim The new PS5 Slim version doesn't actually have any performance upgrades and is not like the PS4 Pro that we saw with the PS4, although that may be coming at some point down the line. Instead, the PS5 Slim makes the overall size smaller, with an 18% decrease in weight for the disc version, a more impressive 24% weight decrease for the disc-less version, and an overall 30% increase in size for both, which is also quite nice, especially if you live somewhere with not much space for a massive PlayStation. That said, they each get a slightly larger storage of 1TB rather than the usual 825GB; it's not a massive amount, especially with how big games are these days, but it's not bad either.
Gaming Super Mario RPG features a lot of fun and quirky minigames, and you'll encounter one of the most unique relatively early in your adventure. If you've come across Toadofsky in Melody Bay and want to know how to compose some music for him, we've got everything you need to know below.
All Melody Bay songs and how to play them You'll need to play a total of four songs for Toadofsky throughout your journey, returning to Melody Bay at certain points after coming across song clues. Each song is eight notes long, and you'll have to wait for the tadpole to get into the correct position before jumping on its back to assign it the appropriate note. When you complete a song, speak to Toadofsky for a reward.
Here are notes from top to bottom: Gaming Though they may be largely focused on telling stories and engaging you with strategic combat, role-playing games often feature some of gaming's most tricky puzzles, too. In the case of Super Mario RPG, you'll eventually find yourself on a Sunken Ship where you'll stumble upon a strange room with six boxes that you need to hit to create a password.
Though you could spend some time in puzzle rooms in the Sunken Ship to receive clues that would ultimately lead you to the solution, we'll cut straight to the point and tell you how to solve this puzzle below.
Sunken Ship password solution Late in the Sunken Ship section is a room with six boxes you need to jump and hit to change letters to create a specific password that will open the door to the final boss of the area. In the lead-up to that, you'll be able to get clues from six doors that each contain a small challenge. It includes tricky 3D mazes and timing puzzles. The clues you gather won't be written down anywhere for you to reference later. The most key clues tell you is that it's an ocean-themed word surrounding an item you may find on the bottom of the sea. It's also the plural for of that word.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
