Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Gaming Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Nickelodeon All-Star Brawl 2 review: finally, a true Super Smash Bros. rival By DeAngelo Epps Close $49.99 Tons of content Deeper fighting systems More polished Full voice-acting adds a lot Campaign gets repetitive A few frustrating gameplay quirks The first entry of the Super Smash Bros-inspired Nickelodeon fighting series, Nickelodeon All-Star Brawl , was good-natured fun that left me wanting more. It was rich in the gameplay department with a lot of potential hidden under the hood , but I could feel the limits of its smaller budget. A Nicktoon game lacking the iconic voices of its legendary toon characters will do that. Its sequel, Nickelodeon All-Star Brawl 2 , thankfully brings the “more” I craved during my time with the original.
An upgrade of continental proportions The secret fighting formula Saturday morning soul Much like its predecessor, Nickelodeon All-Star Brawl 2 is a 2D platform fighter that takes some of the greatest — and not so-greatest — characters from the TV channel’s history and pits them against one another. Don’t label it another poor Smash Bros. clone , though; the sequel goes above and beyond to correct the mistakes of its predecessors and deliver on the potential it could never quite capitalize on.
Look out Super Smash Bros. Melee. Nickelodeon All-Star Brawl is getting a sequel What cartoon characters are in Nickelodeon All-Star Brawl? Garfield and lasagna are coming to Nickelodeon All-Stars Brawl By taking a strong fighting game foundation and expanding on it in every way, Nickelodeon All-Star Brawl 2 comes into its own. It introduces systems never seen in other platform fighters and keeps the speed that made the original a blast. Cleaner graphics, better art direction, and the inclusion of full voice acting don’t hurt either. The only thing the series still lacks is quality control, an area where it becomes clear why Nintendo still rules the platform fighter genre.
An upgrade of continental proportions Nickelodeon All-Star Brawl 2 is similar to its predecessor, giving players a roster of Nicktoons to toy around with in multiplayer brawls. While the original NASB felt like a low-budget tech demo for what a Nickelodeon fighter could be, the sequel actually feels nearly full-baked. One of the biggest jumps in quality this time around comes in the content department. I jumped in expecting a simple reskin of the original with a few upgrades. Instead, I found some significant new modes that gave the series a more distinct, slime-soaked identity.
Campaign mode is a great distraction … Upon starting it, I was pleasantly surprised to see that it features more than just versus , a standard arcade mode, and training.
NASB 2 also packs in a surprisingly robust single-player campaign, a boss rush mode, a suite of minigames, and more. All of that comes with unlockable art and customization options that give players a lot to dig into beyond multiplayer fights with friends.
The standout addition here comes in the form of the new story mode. If you’ve played Super Smash Bros. Brawl ’s Subspace Emissary then you know what NASB 2 is going for here. And it even features the same issues.
GameMill Entertainment During campaign mode, you’ll play through different missions that may have you doing a bit of platforming, completing stray minigames, fighting hordes of weak enemies like jellyfish and Foot Ninjas, pummeling other playable characters to unlock them, and eventually squaring off with a big boss. There are some branching pathways as players move from stage to stage and fully voiced cutscenes that truly bring the toons to life in interdimensional adventures. It’s a clever idea that pulls inspiration surprising from the roguelike genre (a “run” structure has players buying new perks each time).
Campaign mode is a great distraction, but its repetitive structure can get dry fast. The same goes for boss rush, minigames, and arcade mode. Each of those modes act more as fun bonuses to jump into every once in a while if you want to soak in the cartoon art style a little more between competitive fights. Of course, that’s standard for fighting games.
 Core combat is always what makes or breaks a title like this, and NASB 2 delivers where it counts.
The secret fighting formula While the wealth of new modes was a pleasant surprise, the drastic improvements to battling shocked me. There are so many changes here that open the doors wide open for player expression. There are meatier mechanics to think about, more stylish flourishes, and a unique feel that sets it apart from similar games. Sometimes, it can take a game like this several entries to truly find its identity; Nickelodeon All-Star Brawl found its voice in two.
One of the most fun platforming fighting games out there.
NASB 2 takes the speed and fun of the original and polishes it with some great new features. The sequel retains the same basic attack system, which has players alternating between light, charge, and special moves. However, air throws are gone, cleaner gameplay makes fights feel more consistently fair, and the new “Slime” system completely steals the show.
Slime has many functions and is attached to a meter that builds when you land hits and take damage. It’s a deceptively powerful tool that entirely changes the flow of battle. Slime can be attached to light and charge attacks with a single meter, unleashing stronger versions of these moves on the fly. When that three-tick meter is fully built, players can release a cinematic superattack (similar to Final Smashes) that will usually spell curtains for any wounded enemy. These moves let characters show their personality a bit too; SpongeBob’s ultimate attack has him wildly careening around the screen in a car before smashing enemies off-screen.
GameMill Entertainment While each animation is a delight, the other functions of slime are what make it so special. Powering up moves is useful, but there’s a lot of depth that high-level fighting players will get use out of. Take “Slime Cancelling,” which allows players to cancel a landed attack into whatever move they want. This adds extra options for combos, more mix-ups when Slime Cancelling attacks on shield, and brings in more player expression. On top of that, players can better protect their shield against attacks by holding the slime button or even stop their momentum by taking a hit by pressing slime and shield.
Little nuances like that add so much in terms of on-the-fly decision-making, meter management, and planning. Should I use my meter to go for a kill, try for a big combo to get a leg up on my opponent, or should I save it in case I need to protect myself later? Deep questions like that take an already solid and fast battle system and make it one of the most fun platforming fighting games out there.
Saturday morning soul Perhaps the sequel’s biggest upgrade comes from improved presentation, which gives NASB2 the soul its predecessor lacked. Developer Fair Play Labs cleaned the project up significantly, making it feel like a more effective love letter to Nickelodeon’s colorful world. Seeing one of my all-time favorite toons, Rocko from Rocko’s Modern Life , in 3D glory with clean graphics and full voice acting gave me a feeling similar to what I felt when seeing Sonic in Smash Bros. Brawl as a kid.
GameMill Entertainment Little notes of passion add up throughout the detailed package. Roster additions like Jimmy Neutron, who was strangely absent from the first game, and bosses like Danny Phantom’s Vlad or Spongebob’s King Jellyfish actually make this game feel like what it’s supposed to be: A Nicktoons game for both those that grew and still are growing with all these characters.
While production value feels much higher here than its predecessor, I can still feel the limitations of its smaller budget. There are graphical bugs here and there and some textures are unsightly, which is jarring among otherwise clean cartoon visuals. The bigger pain points come down from messy moments that add up over time. During my versus matches, I’ve run into points where it seems like my characters just don’t want to grab the ledge. Sometimes they’ll hold it correctly, but other times they just fall to their death.
I found that I needed to jump through hoops to get everything running smoothly during my matches.
Controls come with some odd issues too that could use a patch. There’s currently a strange issue where you can’t enable a custom control profile in story mode, despite being able to do it everywhere else. In my experience playing local multiplayer on PC, the second player’s controller would often attach itself to the third player. I found that I needed to jump through hoops to get everything running smoothly during my matches, which isn’t what you want from a casual party game like this.
Thankfully, these issues don’t overshadow the impressive feat that Nickelodeon All-Star Brawl 2 achieves. The sequel takes so many steps beyond its predecessor that it nearly feels like a different beast entirely. And the actual fighting at its heart? That’s what makes it an all-star.
Nickelodeon All-Star Brawl 2 was reviewed on PC.
Editors' Recommendations Nickelodeon All-Star Brawl 2: release date window, trailers, gameplay, and more Nickelodeon All-Star Brawl adds voice acting and items Nickelodeon All-Star Brawl: Beginner’s tips and tricks 12 characters we want to see in Nickelodeon All-Star Brawl Everything we know about Nickelodeon All-Star Brawl Game Reviews Product Reviews Gaming As you may have heard, Sony has released a PS5 Slim version, and we're already starting to see it on the market. In fact, if you want to grab one right now, Walmart is selling a PS5 disc slim bundle with Modern Warfare III for just $500. That essentially means that you get MW3 for free as part of the bundle, and even though it's not that highly rated, it's still a free game that you'd otherwise not get, so it's well worth picking up.
Why you should buy the new PS5 Slim The new PS5 Slim version doesn't actually have any performance upgrades and is not like the PS4 Pro that we saw with the PS4, although that may be coming at some point down the line. Instead, the PS5 Slim makes the overall size smaller, with an 18% decrease in weight for the disc version, a more impressive 24% weight decrease for the disc-less version, and an overall 30% increase in size for both, which is also quite nice, especially if you live somewhere with not much space for a massive PlayStation. That said, they each get a slightly larger storage of 1TB rather than the usual 825GB; it's not a massive amount, especially with how big games are these days, but it's not bad either.
Gaming Super Mario RPG features a lot of fun and quirky minigames, and you'll encounter one of the most unique relatively early in your adventure. If you've come across Toadofsky in Melody Bay and want to know how to compose some music for him, we've got everything you need to know below.
All Melody Bay songs and how to play them You'll need to play a total of four songs for Toadofsky throughout your journey, returning to Melody Bay at certain points after coming across song clues. Each song is eight notes long, and you'll have to wait for the tadpole to get into the correct position before jumping on its back to assign it the appropriate note. When you complete a song, speak to Toadofsky for a reward.
Here are notes from top to bottom: Gaming Though they may be largely focused on telling stories and engaging you with strategic combat, role-playing games often feature some of gaming's most tricky puzzles, too. In the case of Super Mario RPG, you'll eventually find yourself on a Sunken Ship where you'll stumble upon a strange room with six boxes that you need to hit to create a password.
Though you could spend some time in puzzle rooms in the Sunken Ship to receive clues that would ultimately lead you to the solution, we'll cut straight to the point and tell you how to solve this puzzle below.
Sunken Ship password solution Late in the Sunken Ship section is a room with six boxes you need to jump and hit to change letters to create a specific password that will open the door to the final boss of the area. In the lead-up to that, you'll be able to get clues from six doors that each contain a small challenge. It includes tricky 3D mazes and timing puzzles. The clues you gather won't be written down anywhere for you to reference later. The most key clues tell you is that it's an ocean-themed word surrounding an item you may find on the bottom of the sea. It's also the plural for of that word.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
