Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Gaming Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Persona 5 Tactica review: stylish strategy spinoff skimps on story By Jess Reyes Close $60.00 Satisfying progression Challenging quests Strong map design Room to experiment Underwhelming story Dialogue is lacking Bloated with features Lack of enemy variety Persona 5 is to Teen Titans as Persona 5 Tactica is to Teen Titans Go! Beyond the Phantom Thieves It’s all about that ‘checkmate’ Teen Titans , the animated superhero series from the early 2000s, expertly balanced lightheartedness with serious story arcs. Later riffs on the series were never able to reach those same heights, including the more kid-friendly Teen Titans Go! Similarly, praise for mega-successful RPG Persona 5 highlighted its gripping story, memorable characters, and fun, but weighty story. Like Teen Titans Go! , the more lighthearted strategy spinoff Persona 5 Tactica just doesn’t have the same charm that made its predecessor popular.
Persona 5 Royal owners on PS4 can’t upgrade to PS5 version Persona 5 Strikers and more are coming to PS Plus in January The best weapons in Persona 5 Royal and where to find them While its anchored by sharp strategy systems, Persona 5 Tactica suffers from enough shortcomings that is ends up being one of the series’ most skippable chapters. The RPG’s narrative doesn’t build on the connections between Persona 5 ‘s cast members well and poor pacing makes it tougher to enjoy the Phantom Thieves’ company.
Beyond the Phantom Thieves Persona 5 Tactica takes place in a timeline where the main Persona 5 cast has already assembled into the Phantom Thieves. The gang discovers a mysterious door that transports them into a fantasy dystopia within the Metaverse governed by an egotistical ruler. There, they join forces with the Rebel Corps and their leader, Erina, who follows them to other worlds that they ultimately visit. These worlds are called Kingdoms, alternate realities that embody the creator’s view of themself and their place in the world. The Phantom Thieves and Erina spend the story trying to find a way back to their homes and uncovering the reason behind these Kingdoms’ existence in the first place.
It feels more like a Persona-skinned strategy game aimed at younger audiences than a true chapter in the series’ story.
Tactica doesn’t dig as deep into the interpersonal relationships between the Phantom Thieves. That’s passable, considering it’s a spinoff and not a mainline Persona game. However, other spinoffs have addressed the similar struggle to reintroduce familiar cast and content with more appealing solutions.
Fire Emblem Warriors: Three Hopes reimagines Fire Emblem: Three Houses from an alternate perspective, with hack-and-slash gameplay instead of traditional turn-based strategy.
Doki Doki Literature Club Plus! — the Doki Doki Literature Club bundle with DLC — included additional side stories about the characters, which offered an incentive for fans to buy it despite already knowing the story.
Tactica could have taken ae of similar route instead of building its story around new characters.
The story does make a half-hearted attempt to connect us with its new cast members, especially Toshiro. We witness marital, familial, and other kinds of problems plaguing his psyche. But it all just seems simplistic compared to the real-world stakes in mainline Persona games, and the memories showcased in each arc show more of an outcome than a struggle.
Tactica ‘s chibi art style further highlights this change in tone with its cutesy, goofy delivery. It mimics P5 ‘s bold, stylized battle animations, but the exaggerated expressions and cartoonish presentation outside of battle further water down any real weight in the story. You could feel bad for a character in one moment, and then completely lose that feeling when their eyes exaggeratedly bug out at the next line.
Image used with permission by copyright holder On the bright side, Tactica only lightly hints at what happened in the main game, so you can go back to it spoiler free — though I’m not sure what kind of player would pick up Tactica without playing Persona 5.
 And fans of the latter might be especially disappointed, as the spinoff waters down a lot of the style and substance that made the RPG so memorable. It feels more like a Persona-skinned strategy game aimed at younger audiences than a true chapter in the series’ story.
It’s all about that ‘checkmate’ Persona 5 Tactica isn’t a traditional turn-based RPG like the original series; it’s a tactics game like Fire Emblem. Like traditional strategy RPGs, battles unfold on grid-based maps, where each unit can move and attack from a certain number of spaces. Each character is like a chess piece with its own unique characteristics, including movement speed, gun types that can hit varying numbers of enemies, and elemental affinity. Strong map design and core tactics systems carry the experience.
Persona 5 Tactica is a competently crafted strategy game … I enjoyed tinkering with how to squeeze as many moves as possible into one turn with P5 ‘s signature “One More” battle system, which reappears in Tactica.
 When hitting an enemy with an attack that it’s weak to, players gain another action. In this case, Tactica focuses on positional weaknesses like attacking enemies outside of safe zones and pushing them off ledges so that allies underneath can perform a follow-up attack. This particularly works in Tactica , where positioning replaces turn economy as a major consideration. That way, you can zip about an entire map before the enemy even moves.
Missions have win conditions ranging from moving between point A to point B to eliminating every enemy on the field. They don’t vary much, but sidequests with more creative objectives help fill the void of variety with some genuinely head-scratching challenges. Quests feel like a requirement because valuable skill points (used for character upgrades) lare ocked behind each one, but I appreciate them for the deeper strategy they require. Early quests means angling attacks just right so that party members can complete an objective and dominate the board in a single turn. They push me to formulate strategies around specific characters required for each quest. In that sense, they taught me more about each character and about how to more efficiently play the game in general. I needed to replay some of them multiple times to get the rewards, but completing them felt worth it.
Even though quests make a good show of each character’s utility, Tactica has a few too many heroes to juggle. Unused teammates gain a buff from sitting on the bench, so players should swap them between missions when possible. However, there’s enough overlap between their abilities that some of them feel redundant, and the only reason I swap between them is for the small battle bonuses. Each character can even equip an additional Persona, so their elemental affinity isn’t a necessity. It feels like the only reason for all of the characters to be there is because every playable character from Persona 5 had to be included (sorry, Akechi and Sumire).
Image used with permission by copyright holder Of course, it wouldn’t be a Persona game without the Velvet Room, a pocket dimension where Personas can be summoned and transformed. That space isn’t just for creating monsters, but also for fusing them into weapons with special abilities — a system that makes the actual weapon shop useless at a point. Design choices like these, especially ones introduced later into the game, wind up feeling like unnecessary additions that weight the SRPG down. Issues like that stack up with smaller quality of life gripes to make Persona 5 Tactica feel surprisingly less tight than other spinoffs we’ve seen from the series.
There’s still enough to enjoy here if you just want to spend some time with the Phantom Thieves again.
Persona 5 Tactica is a competently crafted strategy game that cheerfully pushes players to try all it has to offer. It’s just bloated with features that don’t feel necessary, and its story feels like an afterthought. And that’s the last thing you want to hear about a Persona 5 spinoff.
Persona 5 Tactica was reviewed on Nintendo Switch.
Editors' Recommendations You saw it coming: Persona 3 and Persona 5 Tactica officially revealed Persona 5 is the first game to leave the PS Plus Collection SteelSeries Rival 5 review: A feature-rich gaming mouse without the high cost Persona 5 Royal Confidants and romance guide Persona 5 Royal fusion guide: How to fuse the best Personas Game Reviews Product Reviews Gaming Persona 5 Strikers shares a lot with its source material, from weaknesses and technical hits to fusion in the Velvet Room. Still, Strikers is its own game. The mechanics are familiar, but Strikers changes, removes, and adds to the formula in multiple areas. We've rounded up the best tips and tricks for combat, exploration, the Velvet Room, and more in this Persona 5 Strikers beginner's guide.
There are some new mechanics you need to worry about, but Strikers simplifies the many systems in Persona 5 overall. Time doesn't automatically progress, for example, and the Confidant system has been replaced by a streamlined Bond system. It doesn't matter if you're a Persona pro or just dipping your toes in; our tips will make your romps in the Metaverse a little easier.
Gaming Between the devastating COVID-19 pandemic and a tense presidential election, 2020 brought a constant stream of big news. That was true for the video game industry as well, which saw a massive boost in business as people started playing more during lockdown. That would have been enough to make 2020 a critical year for gaming, but it’s only the tip of the iceberg when it comes to painting a picture of the industry in 2020.
In one word, 2020 was explosive for video games. There were shocking acquisitions, bitter rivalries between corporations, and one gaming controversy to end all gaming controversies. All of that came together to make 2020 a completely unpredictable year for gaming enthusiasts that toed the line between exciting and troubling at every turn. It’s hard to keep track of everything that happened in such a relentless and seemingly never-ending year, so here’s a recap of all of the year’s most significant gaming stories.
COVID-19’s effect on the industry Gaming Persona 5 Strikers is finally coming to the West on February 23. The Dynasty Warriors-style game will also get a digital deluxe edition that provides early access and extras.
The announcement confirms a leak from over the weekend, which revealed the Persona 5 spinoff's release date. The official version of the release date reveal trailer is now live on Atlus' YouTube channel. The game will be available on PlayStation 4, Nintendo Switch, and PC. The PlayStation 4 version of the game will be playable on PlayStation 5.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
