Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Upcoming PS5 Games PlayStation Plus Best PS5 Games Connect PS5 Controller to PC Best PS5 Headsets How to Turn Off PS5 Free PS5 Games Xbox Series X vs PS5 PS5 Voice Commands Home Gaming Reviews PlayStation Portal review: PS5 streaming handheld cuts a lot of corners By Giovanni Colantonio Close $200.00 Low price Light and comfortable Solid display Full DualSense features Awkward touch implementation No Bluetooth support Can't hook up external devices Absent settings What you see is what you get with PlayStation Portal.
 And it’s not much.
Design and display Streaming and battery Features … or the lack of them If you were expecting that PlayStation’s standalone Remote Play device would be hiding some hidden secret that Sony was keeping close to the chest, you’ll be sorely disappointed. As pictures have implied, it’s a screen attached to a DualSense controller. It can connect to your PlayStation 5 via Remote Play over Wi-Fi — and that’s all there is to it. If that idea hasn’t already sold you, you can climb down from the fence you’ve been sitting on and get back to gaming on the PS5 from the comfort of your couch.
The best PS5 controllers for 2023 The PS5 games with the best graphics You only have one week left to share PlayStation clips and screenshots to X Though some may find that idea baffling, it most assuredly has its own audience. A device like this is perfect for the kind of PlayStation faithful who uses Remote Play when traveling or just lazing in bed. It’s a much better option than trying to play a PS5 game on a phone, giving players a dedicated screen free of texts or notifications. While the use case is firmly there, Sony doesn’t go too far out of its way to sweeten the niche proposition any further. It’s a first and final offer.
The price is right, but PlayStation Portal does the bare minimum to get its PS5 streaming job done. With no Bluetooth support, absent settings, and questionable design choices, it’s only a serviceable luxury reserved for a very specific kind of PlayStation gamer.
Design and display Sometimes pictures don’t tell the full story for tech, but they mostly do here. The PlayStation Portal is a PS5 DualSense controller cut right down the middle, with a thin 8-inch LCD display placed right in-between the halves. It’s the same effect you get from strapping a PlayStation Backbone controller onto a phone, except with a much bigger screen and without losing the DualSense grips in the process. It looks a little goofy (it’s not like you’ll be going out in public with it much), but it’s refreshingly comfortable and lightweight at approximately 1.2 pounds.
There are two main draws to buying this at a low $200 rather than just using the devices you already own to accomplish the same thing. The big point is that the controllers here retain every feature the standard DualSense has. You still get haptic feedback and adaptive triggers here, exactly as they work normally. That’s significant, because Sony is notoriously guarded with its controller tech; no third-party devices have those features, including officially licensed ones. Sony gets to claim an exclusive feature here as a result and that gives the Portal an edge.
Image used with permission by copyright holder There’s only one impractical downside to the built-in DualSense design. Any game that uses gyroscopic controls is a bit of a nightmare on the Portal. Try to play Astro’s Playroom and you’ll find yourself shaking the entire device as you try to pull off motion gestures. Your best bet is to disable anything like that in the games you choose to play — or simply skip them altogether on Portal.
The second piece of that is the display, which is a strong selling point. At 8 inches, it’s bigger than the Nintendo Switch OLED and Steam Deck screens. LCD isn’t the most exciting choice, but it’s all you really need considering that you’re always looking at games in reduced quality anyways. The bright, 1080p 60Hz screen makes sure you don’t lose too much more between bouts of standard wireless quality dips.
It’s also a touch display, which only really appears to be a necessity to mimic the DualSense’s touchpad. That implementation is a little awkward, as I need to tap within one of two small boxes on either side of the screen to use them. The low placement under the joysticks means I have to stretch my thumbs quite a bit to hit them. If I tap outside of that space, the screen darkens to call up the Portal’s UI overlay that shows battery status, time, and the settings button (in addition to displaying the touch buttons). Players will need to build up some muscle memory if they want to use touchpad functionality seamlessly in-game.
It feels like the priority here was keeping the final cost as low as possible.
There’s not much else to know about outside of the power, audio pairing, and volume control buttons on the top. The onboard speakers get sufficiently loud too, which is great for playing at home. There’s only one annoyance: The USB-C charging port and headphone jack are both nestled on the underside of the system, tightly pinned right between the back of the screen and an overhanging piece of white plastic. If you happen to have plugs that are a little on the beefy side for whatever reason, you might have trouble fitting them in that narrow slot.
All of this is perfectly fine, but Sony doesn’t try too hard to innovate here — and that could be to its detriment in the long term. There’s no way to detach the screen here like with the Razer Edge , which leaves me wondering what players are supposed to do if they start experiencing DualSense stick drift. The package doesn’t even come with a carrying case of any sort and Sony isn’t currently selling a first-party one you can buy separately. It feels like the priority here was keeping the final cost as low as possible. That’s the right instinct for a product with such a niche use case, but it leaves the Portal feeling a bit too stripped down for its own good.
Streaming and battery Trying to give a detailed breakdown of “performance” on a device like this is a bit of a fool’s errand. All it can do is stream off a PS5, so your experience will entirely depend on your Wi-Fi speed at any given time. My tests were done over fairly strong New York City Wi-Fi, so my results here may not be that useful to someone in the middle of America. I had a smooth enough time during my tests, though I could feel a slight bit of lag when playing games like Lumines Remastered.
 It wasn’t enough to ruin the experience by any means, but it was noticeable. I hit some occasional audio hitches and resolution drops too, but nothing out of the ordinary for the tech.
It’s a great way to play PS5 games away from home … Any problems the device has with streaming are simply issues with Sony’s Remote Play feature. For instance, you can’t use apps like YouTube or Spotify via streaming. If you open either of them, the device lets you know you’re blocked from seeing them and prompts you to go back to the menu. Meanwhile, you can’t cloud stream PS Plus games (such as PS3 titles) through the device. The limitations feel somewhat absurd when encountering them on a $200 device built exclusively for streaming. Thankfully, any future changes to Remote Play should retroactively fix the Portal’s problems.
In my testing, I was able to get about four hours on the dot out of the PlayStation Portal’s battery while streaming and maxing out the speakers. That’s not as impressive as the Logitech Cloud G’s 12-hour life , but it’s enough for a fairly lengthy session. The only oddity here is that there’s no way to see the device’s remaining battery percentage. There’s just a basic three-tick indicator, which briefly goes to zero before the device powers down.
Giovanni Colantonio / Digital Trends The one disappointment with the entire product is that the Portal doesn’t offer players any flexibility outside of streaming.
 It doesn’t really have any guts to speak of, and there’s only a very simple connection interface when Remote Play isn’t active. It’s a great way to play PS5 games away from home, but it pales next to other standalone streaming devices. The Razer Edge, for instance, is actually an Android tablet capable of running mobile games. I can download emulators on that device or, heck, run Remote Play. That makes it far more expensive, but more useful too. I’m not sure that Sony makes the strongest case for a pure Remote Player here, which puts it in the same niche category as something like PlayStation TV.
Features … or the lack of them The stripped-down nature of the project is most apparent in the device’s lack of features. Some of those seem like cost-cutting measures that come with downsides that aren’t worth the savings. For instance, the Portal does not feature Bluetooth support. It only features Sony’s PlayStation Link tech via a button, forcing players to buy a new first-party Sony headset or the $200 Pulse Explore earbuds for wireless listening until third-party companies adopt the tech (a standard headphone jack at least supports any wired listening device).
The Portal has a very slim settings menu … In my tests, I found that there weren’t really any ways to spice the handheld up with any other external devices either. The USB-C port appears to only work for charging. It won’t recognize my plug-and-play Legion Glasses or even another DualSense. It’s a walled garden.
I can understand keeping the tech simple to maintain price, but software omissions are far more puzzling. The Portal has a very slim settings menu that can be accessed at any time by tapping the screen or exiting Remote Play. It includes some basics like a quick disconnect, audio pairing, and brightness slider (it also, somewhat comically, features an airplane mode toggle that renders the entire system useless considering it can’t do anything offline). Beyond that, the settings menu is slim. Users can tweak the light bar and mute button brightness, change the rest mode timer, and change exactly two controller settings.
Giovanni Colantonio / Digital Trends That last part is a doozy. The regular PS5 interface gives players the option to switch the joysticks around, set press and hold delays, and create custom button assignments for the DualSense. None of that is present in the Portal software, which only lets players tweak vibration and trigger effect intensity. That is compounded by the lack of Bluetooth, which means that players aren’t able to pair other controllers, including accessibility devices, with the Portal. That’s a restrictive decision that’s surprising coming from Sony, which has been a leader in accessible design this generation.
For those who just want a dedicated way to use Remote Play with ease and retain DualSense features, the PlayStation Portal is an easy recommendation at $200. I already know I’ll bring it along on my holiday trip this year in case I want to finish grabbing every Spider-Man 2 trophy in my downtime (well, depending on my parents’ Wi-Fi). It’s just surprising to see how many corners could be cut with such a simple device. You really get what you pay for here, but you might wish you could have ponied up for a bit more.
Editors' Recommendations Got a PS5? Here’s how to get 6 free months of Apple Music The best PS5 exclusives The new 1TB PS5 has more usable storage space than the Xbox Series X The best PS5 games for 2023 The best games on PlayStation Plus, Extra, and Premium Game Reviews Product Reviews Sony Sony PlayStation Sony PlayStation 5 Gaming The PlayStation 5 has been out for some time now, and its reception has been mostly positive. It includes lots of quality-of-life improvements over its predecessor, the PlayStation 4, such as faster load times, a solid-state drive (SSD) instead of a regular hard disk drive (HDD), and an improved controller in the form of the new DualSense. However, a console is only as good as the games available on it, and thankfully, the PS5 has you covered on that front as well.
While the machine already has a worthy library of great PS5 games, there are even more to look forward to, with some releasing as soon as this month, while others are still years away. In the video game world, it's not uncommon to be aware of games that are still several years out from release. It's also normal for a new game to be revealed and launched within just a couple of months. In this comprehensive list, we'll go through the major PS5 releases scheduled for 2023 and speculate on future games.
Gaming The new, slimmer PS5 and PS5 Digital Edition models are starting to ship out ahead of their intended release in November, and the fine print on the back of the box revealed something important but previously unknown about the Ultra HD Blu-ray Disc Drive that players can attach to the console: it requires an internet connection.
Sony revealed these new versions of the PS5 earlier this month, and one of the biggest visual changes is that instead of having a single console cover on each side, the console now has four separate cover panels. The new PS5 Digital Edition obviously can't play physical media by default, but Sony will allow people to remove one of the cover panels and replace it with an Ultra HD Blu-ray Disc Drive like they would when swapping parts on gaming PCs. This back-of-the-box fine print revealed that this swapping process will require an internet connection actually work, though.
Gaming Sony consoles have always gotten multiple versions and editions ever since the original PlayStation 1. As technology becomes cheaper and more advanced, refreshed models that are both smaller and less expensive to produce typically come out a couple of years into a console's life cycle, and we have now hit that point for the PS5. The PS5 slim, as it is being referred to, is a smaller version of the launch models, and will eventually become the standard unit available to consumers once the stock of existing PS5s runs out. However, is this version worth getting if you're an existing owner, or is it only for new purchasers? There's also the question about which of the two versions to buy. To answer all these questions, let's compare the PS5 slim to the OG PS5.
Specs Let's start with the most important part, which is whether or not there's more power under the hood of the PS5 slim compared to the launch models. No, the PS5 slim is not in any way more powerful than an existing PS5. This is not a PS5 Pro, which is currently just a rumor. Games will not look, run, or play any better or worse on either version. The only difference in terms of specs is that the slim versions have slightly more storage space at 1 TB compared to 825GB, which is just a small 175GB upgrade. There's nothing here that makes it worth buying a new system when you can expand the storage of your console yourself.
Size Obviously, a slim model would mean that this new version would be smaller than the frankly comically large launch version. While that's true, it isn't a huge reduction in size. The PS5 Slim disc version weighs 3.2 kilograms (18% less that the original PS5) while the discless version weighs 2.6kg (24% less), and both are 30% smaller by volume.
Versions Once again, you will have the option to choose between an all-digital and standard version of the PS5 Slim. However, unlike the original discless PS5, the new version will give you the option to add a disc drive later on if you purchase a separate detachable drive.
Price The current PS5 models are priced at $400 and $500 for the digital and standard versions, respectively. While the PS5 slim standard version that includes the disc drive will remain at $500, the discless version will get a price increase to $450. This price increase had already been seen in other territories outside the U.S., but will now be introduced here once these new versions launch. It is also worth mentioning that the detachable disc drive you can get to upgrade your discless version will cost $80, meaning you would spend more to buy the digital version and add the drive than you would by simply buying the version with the drive already included.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
