Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Gaming Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The Talos Principle 2 review: spirituality meets science in standout puzzle sequel By Giovanni Colantonio Close $30.00 Intriguing world Sharp puzzle design Creative tools and twists A strong intellectual challenge Long-winded Later puzzles run out of steam Humanity is dead and gone. All that remains is one lone city populated by 1,000 lost androids. They wander their metallic utopia in search of answers to impossible questions that their creators failed to leave behind. Their very existence is a puzzle, a mess of disconnected fragments floating in their silicone DNA. But the thing about puzzles — or well-designed ones, anyway — is that no matter how confusing they may seem, there’s always a solution. It just takes patience and determination.
Science and spirituality Solving the impossible That’s the worldview that lives in The Talos Principle 2 , a cerebral sequel that maxes out its 2014 predecessor in every way. While it’s set up as a gloomy, dystopian story about the aftermath of humanity’s demise, there’s an underlying optimism in its wide cast of robotic characters. Their society is built on bright-eyed curiosity as they seek to solve both the physical and philosophical puzzles of their world. It’s a celebration of humanity’s incredible potential to untangle any problem it faces.
The Talos Principle 2 excels at giving players a suite of brain-busting puzzles built around strong eureka moments, even if it can feel as long-winded as a philosophy professor with its wandering existential monologues. Only the most determined genre experts may see the end of its super-sized story, but those who brave its gauntlet of mysterious islands are sure to walk away with newfound confidence in their ability to accomplish the impossible.
Science and spirituality At first, The Talos Principle 2 doesn’t seem too different from its predecessor. When I boot it up, I’m wandering around a familiar desert solving straightforward puzzle chambers in first-person. The veil quickly lifts, introducing me to the sequel’s brave new direction. There’s a much larger emphasis on story this time around, as I soon discover I’m controlling the one thousandth — and final, according to a strange law of the land — android born into a robot society. A celebration ensues, but it’s cut short when a projection of Prometheus appears and sows confusion among the locals. In the aftermath, a crew of androids set out to investigate a pyramid-like megastructure that’s popped up on a mysterious island full of puzzles.
Croteam The journey takes players to a dozen explorable biomes surrounding the enormous pyramid, each of which is populated with eight primary puzzle chambers and a few secrets to discover in each. That setup gives the sequel a much grander scale than its intimate predecessor. I can spend more time soaking in the quiet environments as I discover text and audio logs that paint a more thorough picture of the android society and the lost race that created it.
While the first Talos Principle was something of a tone piece, the sequel delivers a bigger narrative vision that’s almost unheard of for the genre. Crew members frequently pop up on my comms to chatter about the deeper meaning of puzzles. I often stop to chat with NPCs wandering around and pick their robotic brains about the meaning of life. The society even has its own social media app where I can engage in philosophical debates with other robots. It’s a lot of dedicated, often engrossing, worldbuilding, though it can be dry and meandering in moments. Pace-slowing conversations can make players feel like they’re sitting in a semester-long crash course in philosophy that broadly picks at as many debates as possible.
The act of puzzle solving is sacred in The Talos Principle 2.
Though it can be a touch eye-rolling, it leaves intellectually curious players with a lot of different bones to chew on. I was struck by the way the sequel connects spirituality and science. Rather than seeing the two concepts as being at odds with one another, it finds common ground between them. The androids are deeply spiritual machines who revere their human creators like Gods. Rather than simply accepting their unknowable power, they utilize scientific theory to uncover the answers they seek. They operate under the assumption that everything, even God, has its own internal logic that can be learned. Considering that media tends to pit science and faith against one another, it’s a thoughtfully nuanced approach to a long-standing debate.
And it’s one that specifically fits in the confines of the genre. A level-based puzzler like this hinges on the idea that there’s always an answer, no matter how hard the problem is. Players have to have faith that the creators (Croteam, in this instance) have carefully built an intricate set of laws that govern its world and all its challenges. The act of puzzle-solving is sacred in The Talos Principle 2 ; when I finally crack a seemingly impossible problem, I feel closer to a digital God.
Solving the impossible All of this only works if the puzzles within a game like this are sharply designed, and that’s fortunately where The Talos Principle 2 excels.
 Each island and its chambers are built around a defining twist that becomes more complex with each primary puzzle. It all begins easily enough when I’m redirecting beams of light to sensors of their matching colors to unlock doors and activate a machine at the end. Those initial eight puzzles teach me the basics of how that works with mounting nuance, making me consider spatial reasoning as I solve problems.
Each new twist mounts on top of the last. Later chambers introduce RGB splitters that combine two colored beams into a new one. Another introduces a teleporter that lets me transport myself and any object I’m carrying to otherwise unreachable areas. In the most mind-bending turn, a series of chambers has me taking control of different androids and finding ways to stack them on top of one another with platforms and boxes. Each tool unveils a new natural law of the land that I need to commit to memory before I’m handed down another mechanic like scripture.
Those who have the patience to push their brains to the limits will be rewarded.
The most impressively designed puzzles can feel downright impossible at first glance. Sometimes I’m left standing in a chamber racking my brain as I try to figure out how I’m going to get past a seemingly impassable wall with a handful of tools.
The Talos Principle 2 doesn’t give players much help either, as there are no hints or a quick undo button to lean on when I make a critical, irreversible error. The only minor help comes from a handful of collectible Prometheus Flames that allow players to bypass a chamber entirely. It isn’t a friendly experience for more casual players and that’s sure to leave some poring over YouTube videos for solutions.
Those who have the patience to push their brains to the limits, though, will be rewarded. Any time I was faced with an “impossible” challenge, I’d stop and break the problem down into pieces rather than trying to solve it all at once. A late puzzle had me trying to unlock a chamber locked behind a fence I couldn’t climb over and a static wall I couldn’t cross. I’d have to pass through another blocked wall to get there, as well as free a moving platform and a blue light source. I’d tackle each problem individually, reverse engineering the problem by learning how I could theoretically bypass each lock with the tools I had. When I simply couldn’t crack the final mystery of the final fence and impassable wall, I’d put the game down and sleep on it as I reverse-engineered solutions in my head.
Devolver Digital Without realizing it, I was carrying out the scientific method to solve rooms like that. I’d figure out the problem of each room, observe every corner of it to see what tools I had to work with, build several small hypotheses, and carry out experiments. When an idea would fail, I’d start again, but folding in any newfound information I learned on my last attempt. After lots of trial and error, I’d eventually solve that tricky room by realizing where both I and an electronic-jamming device would need to be positioned to unlock two doors. When I finally cleared that puzzle, it felt like I’d ascended to another plane.
That feeling is kept up throughout the 20+ hour adventure, though it can get mentally exhausting. Late puzzle islands run out of creative tools, instead relying on less exciting gimmicks like moving platforms that feel like they belonged at the start of the challenge gauntlet, not the end. A few puzzle suites don’t do a terribly strong job at teaching their core hook off the bat either, which can leave the first chambers on some islands feeling harder than their last few. Pacing issues provided just a few moments where I questioned the all-mighty creators.
That feeling isn’t at odds with The Talos Principle 2 ’s teachings, though. The sequel encourages players to question their world and interrogate why things are built the way they are. Is there a good reason for a society to fall in line with certain universal laws? What do we gain from prodding them? That’s a key debate that’s central to one of the story’s most puzzling questions: Why must the android society cap its membership at 1,000? It’s never explained, but it’s a goal that Robotkind has blindly chased like a heavenly decree at the expense of growth. Perhaps there’s a good reason, but the population will never know until they ask “Why?” If you ever find yourself critiquing developer Croteam’s design decisions during a headache-inducing puzzle, you’re playing The Talos Principle 2 right.
The Talos Principle 2 was tested on PC and Steam Deck.
Editors' Recommendations Sludge Life is getting a surprising sequel and we’ve already tried it Game Reviews Product Reviews Gaming We've had a dancing game and musou spinoff, but now the Persona 5 cast has entered the realm of tactics with Persona 5 Tactica. The translation feels obvious when you think about it, but naturally, there have to be some changes to make it fit. For fans of the original JRPG, experimenting with the new combat system will take a little getting used to, especially relearning what skills are best. This game is quite friendly to those who are not as well-versed in the genre and allows you to try out your build and completely rework it if you need to. If you've invested your GP in some skills you're unhappy with, here's how you can respec in Persona 5 Tactica.
How to respec in Persona 5 Tactica Each character has their own skill tree that you can invest your GP into for buffs and skills. The way you invest early on can make the first few hours either much more difficult or a smoother experience. If you're feeling some buyer's remorse, respecing any character is not only easy, but can be done as many times as you like at no cost.
Gaming Nintendo’s Super Mario series is so monumental to the medium of video games that you might even think of the mustachioed plumber when you hear “video games” mentioned at all. From his earliest days when he battled Donkey Kong as “Jumpman.” to his latest adventures on the Nintendo Switch, to his latest movie appearance in The Super Mario Bros. Movie, Mario has consistently been one of the greatest characters in video games. He’s such an iconic character that countless video games have had him as the star, and here we have ranked them.
For our list, we had two main criteria. First, the games have to be platformers -- either 2D or 3D. This eliminates Mario sports games, the Mario Kart series, role-playing games, and all the Mario Parties. Secondly, the games have to have Mario himself as the lead character. This eliminated Super Mario Land 3 and Super Mario World 2: Yoshi’s Island. In the end, we were left with 22 games. None of them are bad, but we did have to name a loser. We also chose to omit The Lost Levels and instead considered Super Mario Bros. 2 as the definitive second game in the series.
Gaming Rocksteady made a name for itself as one of the first teams to make a universally acclaimed superhero game with Batman: Arkham Asylum. It followed that success with two sequels, the even more beloved Batman: Arkham City and the divisive, though still fantastic Batman: Arkham Knight. Fans were left waiting to hear what this studio would tackle next. Most assumed it would be another DC property, since it is owned by Warner Bros. Games, and those suspicions turned out to be right on the money, though with a property not many would have predicted.
Suicide Squad: Kill the Justice League was given a formal announcement as the newest project from Rocksteady at the DC FanDome event in 2020. At the time, outside of the graphic novels, of course, we only had the one flop of a film based on this antihero group, so many fans were hesitant to see Rocksteady tackle this property. Now that we've gotten a few trailers and footage of gameplay, however, it has become clear that Rocksteady hasn't lost its touch. We took on this suicide mission for you and made off with all the details you need to know about Suicide Squad: Kill the Justice League.
Release date Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
