Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Smart Home Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? 2022 Amazon Echo Dot with Clock (5th Gen) review: supersmart personal assistant speaker By Erin Lawrence Close $59.00 Compact footprint Vastly improved sound quality Clock shows more useful info New temperature sensor Added Wi-Fi features Only works as Wi-Fi booster if you're already on Amazon eero network Amazon spent the last couple of months releasing new and updated gadgets in its popular smart home lineup. One of the most underrated options is the $60 Echo Dot with Clock. Most shoppers aim for the Echo Dot or Echo Show , but the 2022 Echo Dot with Clock (5th Gen) is actually a capable smart home helper in a small but versatile package. In this review, we’ll look at what it can do, what it’s suited for, and if we think it’s a good buy for your smart home. You can also peruse our list of the best Alexa devices for more choices.
What is the 5th Gen Echo Dot with Clock? What’s new with the Echo Dot with Clock? Setting up the Amazon Echo Dot with Clock Using Alexa as your alarm clock Amazon Echo Dot with Clock speaker quality Amazon Echo Dot with Clock as a Personal Digital Assistant What we think of the Amazon Echo Dot with Clock What is the 5th Gen Echo Dot with Clock? The key feature of the Echo Dot with Clock , as you may imagine, is the addition of a LED digital clock to the front of the round Dot. The display is always on and shows the time, temperature, or other at-a-glance information. The digital clock also makes it ideal for bedside use or even in a bathroom, which is where I opted to use mine. For light-sensitive sleepers, a built-in light sensor adjusts the display’s brightness to keep it neutral for sleeping.
Best Amazon Echo deals: The Show, Pop and Dot are on sale Amazon brings Matter support to 17 Echo devices The Best Prime Early Access Amazon Echo Deals for 2022 What’s new with the Echo Dot with Clock? Image used with permission by copyright holder Depending on what Amazon Echo you may be upgrading from, there are some noteworthy features and updates found in the 2022 Echo Dot with Clock. Amazon has boosted the speaker’s capability by providing, “an improved audio experience for clearer vocals, deeper bass, and vibrant sound.” That aforementioned LED display now does more . Apart from time and temperature, it can now also show additional weather details, scroll through song titles, and generally display more relevant info to your inquiry. The 2022 Echo Dot with Clock also has a temperature sensor under the case so you can use it to create Alexa routines based on the temperature in the room.
If you’re looking for an affordable compact, yet ultrasmart personal assistant speaker that doubles as a capable alarm clock, the Echo Dot with Clock is a great choice.
The final addition is the built-in Wi-Fi booster so you can add up to 1,000 square feet of Wi-Fi coverage, but this only works if you already use Amazon’s Eero network.
Setting up the Amazon Echo Dot with Clock Setting up this device is easy, as is the case with all Echo gadgets: plug it in and follow the instructions you’ll get verbally or follow prompts in the Alexa app. The steps involve getting connected to your home’s Wi-Fi network and signing into, or creating, an Amazon account.
Once you initiate the Dot with Clock, you can manage any settings or change preferences (Celsius versus Fahrenheit temperatures, for example) inside the Alexa app.
Using Alexa as your alarm clock Image used with permission by copyright holder The Dot’s small footprint is ideal for your nightstand. It’s easy to ask Alexa to set an alarm each evening, or ask for one to be set for every weekday so you don’t need to worry about remembering to change it every night. I like this feature a lot since it means I can fall asleep while reading a book and not worry about oversleeping if I forget to set the alarm. At the same time, there are no early morning alerts on weekends! Not surprisingly, you can use the Alexa app to customize the sound Alexa will make as your alarm. There’s an expanded array of different sounds since I last explored the device, and there aewchoices from lightly wakeful tones to songs and celebrity voice clips, including Ian Ziering warning of an impending morning Sharknado, or Blake Shelton’s soothing drawl reminding me a hard day’s work is in order. When the alarm sounds, tap the top of the device to snooze it, or ask Alexa to shut it off.
Amazon Echo Dot with Clock speaker quality With its smaller speaker (compared to a full-size Echo ), the Echo Dot with Clock is definitely less powerful than some of the other Echo devices, but Amazon has been diligent about making improvements to the sound quality so audio doesn’t sound small and tinny. Generally speaking, this small unit is meant to be a supplementary or satellite device to your overall system — even so, it no longer feels like a cost-cutting compromise, as the original Echo Dots might have.
The audio quality improvements are noticeable and go a long way to elevate the Echo Dot with Clock into a nice-sounding compact speaker.
The 2022 Echo Dot with Clock sounds quite good given its diminutive size, and the improvements are noticeable. It gets decently loud (as loud as you’d want in a bedroom) and the audio is crisp. In truth, there is a lot more detail in the music and more resonance in the bass than in older Dot with Clock versions I’ve tested. This is particularly true on the high end of the music spectrum. The previous versions of the Dot with Clock could verge into hollow-sounding, but Amazon seems to have created a speaker that produces a more natural, even sound. The bass is actually pretty good on this speaker, too.
Amazon Echo Dot with Clock as a Personal Digital Assistant The true power of the Dot with Clock is as an Alexa digital assistant and smart speaker. Like other Alexa offerings, this one uses voice control, meaning you can give smart home commands, like turning lights on or off, or adjusting your smart thermostat’s temperature. Call out for it to play music or news briefings, as well as audiobooks on Audible , check the weather, set timers and alarms, or just ask any question that’s rattling around your cranium. You can also use the Echo Dot with Clock for making room-to-room calls , Wi-Fi audio calls, or as a speakerphone.
What we think of the Amazon Echo Dot with Clock Image used with permission by copyright holder To sum up, this is a solid upgrade to an already very useful device. The audio quality improvements are noticeable and actually go a long way toward elevating Echo Dot with Clock into a nice-sounding compact speaker.
When it comes to Alexa as a personal digital assistant, it’s massively capable and responsive, and I appreciate having it as a virtual butler. It’s easy to set timers and alarms, as well as hear news and listen to books to fall asleep. And Echo devices work really well at managing my smart home. The addition of a temperature sensor is nice, and we’ll be experimenting with routines using this feature in the future. For what this speaker is, and what it promises, there’s really no downside. That’s particularly true when you consider that if you find it not powerful enough or too small, you can simply upgrade to a larger model. And if you need more visual cues than the dot-matrix LED display can deliver, choosing an Echo Show device like the Echo Show 15 would resolve that for you.
If you’re looking for a compact yet ultrasmart personal assistant speaker that doubles as a capable alarm clock, the Echo Dot with Clock is a great choice, particularly since Amazon has held the price at the previous model’s level.
Editors' Recommendations Which Amazon Echo should you buy? What to do if your Amazon Alexa app is not working Best Prime Day Amazon Echo Deals for October 2022 Nest Mini (2nd-gen) vs. Amazon Echo Dot (5th-gen) The history of the Amazon Echo Amazon Product Reviews Smart Home Reviews Speakers Smart Home At Wednesday's Amazon Devices & Services event, the company announced a brand-new lineup of Echo Dot devices. These include a new Echo Dot, Echo Dot with Clock, Echo Dot Kids, and a new Echo Auto device. The Echo Studio also received a couple of more color options, as well as a software upgrade.
All of these devices feature updated technology and several new features that make them well worth the upgrade, and pre-orders start today. If you want to snag one of these new Echo products for yourself, you can expect to receive it sometime next month.
Echo Dot The new Echo Dot retains the spherical design of its predecessor, but with new technology on the inside that gives it a lot more power. It features a custom full-range driver and the most powerful excursion speaker of any Echo Dot, which allows it to produce double the bass of the previous generation.
Smart Home If you’ve purchased a new Amazon Echo Show 15, there’s an important thing to know: You really need to plan to wall-mount it. If that’s not in the cards for you (maybe you’re in a rental or just don’t have wall space), you have a few options, since unlike pretty much all other Echo Show devices, you can pick how you want to orient the Echo Show 15. Let's take a look at the best ways to display your Echo Show 15 so it's accessible and safe from tipping over.
Use the included wall bracket for wall-mounting You can hang the Echo Show 15 on a wall with the included bracket. You can read the instructions, but you simply screw the bracket to the wall. Use the drywall anchors if you don’t have an available stud. The Show 15 will slide onto the bracket for a safe and permanent installation.
Use a stand Smart Home If you're thinking about buying a smart speaker, you might be undecided on what to get. We hear you. With all the news and info you hear about the two most popular voice assistants, Amazon Alexa and Google Assistant, it's hard to know which one to choose. Given their usefulness from playing music to some other stuff you probably didn't know they could do, it's no wonder they're so invaluable.
While the original Google Home speaker has long been discontinued (the name lives in the all-purpose Google Home app), Google's line of smart Nest speakers, like the Nest Mini and Nest Audio, carry on the tradition with updated features.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
