Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Smart Home Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Amazon Echo Pop Review: a perfectly priced Alexa By Phil Nickinson Close $40.00 The price is right Decent sound Mostly all the features Bonus Eero extender No aux input What is there to say about an Amazon Echo that hasn’t been said a million times already? You know what it is. (It’s a speaker with microphones that lets you do Alexa things.) You know what it does. (See previous sentence.) And you probably have a good idea of what it’s going to be like given how much, or how little, it costs.
The basics of a basic Echo Pop Echo Pop bonuses, and what’s missing Should you buy an Echo Pop? That brings us to the Echo Pop. It’s a $40 Amazon Echo speaker that looks like someone cut a full Echo or Echo Dot — both, as a reminder, are spherical — in half. And maybe that’s really where the story is. Because it’s not a full Echo or Dot, something had to go to get it down to that retail price. As the Echo was sliced in two, some features fell by the wayside.
And there’s a good chance you’ll actually be OK with that.
Phil Nickinson / Digital Trends The basics of a basic Echo Pop The first line in Amazon’s description for the Echo Pop reads thusly: “This compact smart speaker with Alexa features full sound that’s great for bedrooms and small spaces. Small enough to blend in and mighty enough to stand out.” In a world in which product descriptions don’t always live up to reality, Amazon managed to speak the truth here. The Echo Pop isn’t going to fill a room like its more expensive cousins (by the way, Amazon says the Pop is not replacing the Dot).
Echo Pop vs. HomePod (Gen 2): is the HomePod worth its added cost? Alexa vs. HomeKit: Which smart home platform is best? At long last, Amazon brings AI features to Alexa No, this is the sort of speaker that you put somewhere you might want to hear music — or otherwise work with Alexa — but not really care about how it sounds.
And that’s not to say that the Pop sounds bad. It doesn’t. It’s perhaps better at lower volumes than it is if you attempt to blast things a bit. There’s a hint of bass, but without any sort of heft to it. As the volume increases, the mids and highs get muddied, and that semblance of bass gets lost.
But I’m OK with that. I’m the sort of guy who needs background music to really be in the background — almost to the point where speakers that are better pull me into the music more than I want them to. The Echo Pop doesn’t do that. You can clearly hear what’s coming out of it, but it’s not at all overwhelming.
For things other than music, the Echo Pop works as advertised. The microphone array hears my voice just fine, even when there’s music playing or some other background noise. Alexa is as attentive as ever, with just a hit of delay while she thinks things over — but not so much as to be annoying.
Setting up an Echo Pop is as easy as with any other Echo device.
Phil Nickinson/Digital Trends Back to that product description. Amazon bills the Echo Pop as a “compact smart speaker,” and it definitely is that. The flat front face is just about 4 inches across — a smidge bigger than a softball. The power cord plugs into the back, and the plug end of things definitely is a little chonky. But otherwise, this is a diminutive speaker that you can tuck away wherever. Other than that missing front facet, it’s basically the same size as an Echo Dot.
Setup also is a breeze, same as with any other Echo device. You’ll need the Amazon app, of course. But it’s just a couple taps and maybe a minute or so of letting Amazon do its thing (having set up any other Echo relatively recently will help, as things like your home Wi-Fi info can be transferred over), and then you’re good to go.
There are just three buttons on top of the Pop — volume controls and the microphone kill button. Note that it’s a button, and not a physical switch. The latter also lights up the microphone button in red, and same for the notification light on top, so you know Alexa can’t hear you anymore.
And that’s it. It is, really, a basic little Echo speaker that’s good for small places.
Phil Nickinson/Digital Trends Echo Pop bonuses, and what’s missing Amazon sent me a black Echo Pop. Nothing wrong with that — black goes with everything. But the lavender and teal options definitely stand out more (they’re almost like colors Google might use), so give them a look.
Then there’s the bonus networking feature, with the caveat that every network (and home) is different. An Echo Pop can be used to extend your home network — if you happen to also be using an Eero mesh router system (which, in fact, I am). Amazon says an Echo Pop can add up to 1,000 square feet of coverage, which isn’t awful.
But before you pick one up thinking you just got yourself a cheaper Eero 6 Extender, know this: A basic Eero 6 Extender gets you up to 1,500 square feet of coverage, and at speeds up to 500 Mbps. The Echo Pop covers less space, limits speeds to 100 Mbps, and it’ll only support up to 10 devices, and only at 5 GHz. If you really need to extend your Eero network, pony up the extra money and do it right. The Echo Pop’s ability to serve as a network extender is a cool bonus, but not a reason to buy.
And let’s not forget everything that Alexa brings to the table. It’s a lot — way too much to break down here. But if you can do it on more expensive Alexa-enabled devices, you probably can do it with the Echo Pop. That is, with a couple exceptions. When Amazon lopped off the front of an Echo Dot to make the Echo Pop, it took with it the sensors that detect motion and temperature. That’s not a big deal unless you happen to rely on those things either on their own, or as some sort of automation process.
Should you buy an Echo Pop? If you’re trying to decide between an Echo Pop and a bigger, better Echo Dot (or even a full Echo), your decision really should come down to price. And that’s where things may get a little confusing, since there’s only a $10 difference between the two.
The question, then, is how much of a price difference does there need to be before you get the better model? Nobody has ever gotten a speaker at home and said, “Well, I really wish I’d gotten the one that does less and sounds worse.” So what’s the tipping point? $10? $20? That’s for you to decide. And that’s the sort of decision we have to make all the time with Amazon products as prices fluctuate with the occasional sale.
But in a vacuum? The new Amazon Echo Pop is priced right. It does what you need it to do, and it does so as simply as it can. Don’t overthink it. Just enjoy it.
Editors' Recommendations The best Alexa skills to use on your Amazon Echo in 2023 Which Amazon Echo should you buy? The best Amazon Alexa smart speakers Amazon’s Echo family expands with an on-wall hub, smart glasses, and more Best Amazon Echo deals: The Show, Pop and Dot are on sale Audio / Video Amazon Amazon Alexa Product Reviews Smart Home Reviews Speaker Reviews Smart Home Amazon Alexa is an interactive voice assistant that can check the weather, launch your favorite playlist, and everything in between. Alexa can be found on most Amazon products, including the new Echo Pop, the iconic Echo Dot, and even a variety of smart thermostats, soundbars, lamps, and more. Aside from taking basic commands from you, Alexa can also dish out commands to the rest of your connected smart home -- making it easy to streamline your life.
Interested in learning more about Amazon Alexa? Then you’re in the right place. Here’s a closer look at where Alexa comes from, how it works, where it got its name, and just about everything else you’d want to know about the popular voice assistant and smart home savant.
Who/what is Alexa? Smart Home When it comes to smart home ecosystems, Amazon Alexa is at the top of the class. Not only can you create incredible routines and automate hundreds of tasks, but the number of Alexa-compatible gadgets seems to grow larger by the day. Better yet, Amazon is committed to making many of its hubs (including just about everything in the Echo lineup) work seamlessly with the Matter standard -- which should only make things more exciting throughout 2023.
In this guide, we review some of the best interactive Alexa hardware in the way of speakers, displays, lights, wall plugs, thermostats, smart locks, cameras, and appliances. You can make your life easier with an Alexa-powered home, and we’ll show you where to begin.
The best Alexa smart speakers and displays Smart Home Amazon has agreed to pay $25 million to the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) to settle charges over privacy violations linked to its digital assistant, Alexa.
In a separate case, Amazon-owned Ring will pay $5.8 million for violations of users’ privacy.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
