Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Smart Home Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Amazon Echo Show 5 review: the third gen’s the charm By Phil Nickinson Close $89.00 Decent price, especially once sales hit Good screen Does all the Alexa stuff Loads of Amazon goodies at hand Browser experience is bad Screen a tad laggy We live in a continued era of speeds and feeds. A time in which every new thing has to be bigger. (Or smaller.) Faster. Louder. Better in every way, otherwise, it’s decried as a mere iteration, not worthy of whatever little attention we have left.
The Echo Show 5 basics The question is why … Then there’s something like the third-generation Amazon Echo Show 5. Let’s not beat around the bush here: If you’ve used the second-gen Echo Show 5 , you basically know exactly what you’re getting here. Small screen. Decent speaker. Camera. Microphones. Amazon Alexa , and all the smarts that comes with the assistant. And that includes support for the Thread and Matter smart home standards.
And, yes, it’s a little faster. And sounds a little better — all for $5 more than before. We’ll talk more about that price at the end.
Phil Nickinson/Digital Trends The Echo Show 5 basics For the uninitiated, the Amazon Echo Show 5 is a smart display, in the same category as Google’s Nest Hub, and Apple’s — well, Apple still doesn’t have anything like this. But whereas Google’s Nest Hub bottoms out at 7 inches, the Echo Show 5 scales things down a little more, with a 5.5-inch display. (Lenovo has a 4-inch option with its Smart Clock, but there’s a good chance this is the first time you’re ever hearing about that.) Echo Pop vs. HomePod (Gen 2): is the HomePod worth its added cost? Which Amazon Echo should you buy? Amazon Astro: everything you need to know about this home robot The whole thing is about the size of — well, about the size of a small smart display. It’ll fit fine on a desk — though I prefer something with a slightly larger screen if it’s going to be in front of me all day, otherwise why bother at all? It’s perfect on a nightstand. Not too big as to cause a distraction, but still big enough to be seen.
There’s nothing particularly groundbreaking about the display. It has the same size and 960 x 480 resolution that the 2021 model enjoyed. It’s still mostly responsive when you touch it, though there are some noticeable lags. It’s not that you’d expect it to be as fast as a phone, but it happens often enough that you’ll want to avoid using a finger if at all possible. Visuals on the screen are alright at that resolution, too. Sure, you maybe can pick out individual pixels. But you also should not pick out individual pixels and should instead consider a visit to a museum or at least step outside for a minute and touch some grass. It’s worth noting that the ambient light sensor works as advertised, which is good if you’re going to have the Echo Show 5 in a bedroom.
The display looks okay but isn’t the best for touch. And that’s maybe not a deal-breaker, because the microphone array works well. For what it’s worth, it now has a three-mic array, up from two in the previous model. More (mostly) is better since that’ll allow the device to hear you more clearly, and from a farther distance. If you don’t want the Echo Show 5 listening in for your commands, one of the three buttons on top of the body will kill the mic.
The other two buttons, by the way, are volume buttons. And the buttons really are where you’ll find one of the bigger (or at least more apparent) changes in this year’s model. Before, you had three round buttons with their actions stenciled on top. Absolutely nothing wrong with that, and you almost certainly will memorize the positions of the buttons, so you don’t have to always look to see whether you’re going to mute the mics (on the left), lower the speaker volume (in the middle), or increase it (the button on the right).
The order of the buttons remains unchanged in the 2023 Echo Show 5, but they have a new design. The volume-up button is now shaped like a thin plus symbol. The volume-down button is shaped like a thin minus sign. And the mute button is shaped like a circle with a line through it, which makes more sense than having a tiny person with their hands over their ears. (That’s what I’d have gone with, anyway.) It’s a different design language — better or worse? That’s your call — and everything works exactly as it should. Probably the best part is that it allows the fabric cover to extend nearly all the way to the front of the device, which just looks cleaner.
One thing that’s missing this time around? The outdated micro USB port on the back that you almost certainly didn’t know was there. (Amazon always intended it to be used for an Ethernet adapter.) You do you, but given that the new Echo Show 5 has dual-band Wi-Fi, it really isn’t the sort of device you’d expect to plug in, to say nothing of how that’d make it look aesthetically.
The speaker also has changed ever so slightly. It’s now a single 1.75-inch speaker, up from 1.65 inches. When it comes to speakers, size is just part of the equation. And it’s entirely possible that you won’t notice a difference in sound unless you have the second-generation Echo Show 5 up next to the new one. In any case, audio is sufficient. It’s not great, but you shouldn’t really expect it to be from something this small, and this relatively inexpensive. It’s not horrible, but I also wouldn’t rely on it as a regular music-maker. But a basic dispenser of information, or maybe even podcasts, it’s adequate.
The 2MP camera on the Echo Show 5 retains its physical shutter, which is the only way that should be done.
Phil Nickinson/Digital Trends Phil Nickinson/Digital Trends And the Echo Show 5 keeps its 2MP camera, for what that’s worth. That’s enough megapixels to get done whatever video calls you might do on such a device. And though Amazon’s Echo devices and Alexa app handle video calls competently, the bigger issue is getting you to use it in the first place in a world dominated by WhatsApp, WeChat, FaceTime, Telegram, Facebook Messenger, and Signal, to name but a few.
More important, though, is that the camera retains its physical shutter. The little switch is in the same place as before atop the Echo Show 5. Toggle it, and if you’ll cover the camera lens , and also get a notification on the screen that the camera is inoperable. That’s the only way that should be done.
The question is why … In a vacuum, the Echo Show 5 is a perfectly capable little device. It’s the sort of thing I’d plunk down in a guest bedroom, maybe. Perhaps on a desk — but, again, I prefer something with a slightly larger screen. That’s just a preference, though; it’s not a knock against the Echo Show 5.
But how much you spend on an Echo device very much depends on how deep you are into the Amazon ecosystem. And to be perfectly fair to the Amazon ecosystem, that may well be deeper than you realize. Alexa is just the tip of the iceberg. You’ve got services like Amazon Prime Video floating visibly above the surface. Same, too, for Amazon Music. Both of those are available on the Echo Show 5, of course.
The Amazon Echo Show 5 in front of the Google Nest Hub, with its 7-inch screen.
Phil Nickinson/Digital Trends A device with a screen — even a small one like the Echo Show 5 — screams for photos, too. And if you’ve ever used Amazon Photos , you already know that it’s really good, too. Amazon’s video calling isn’t bad. And there are tons of apps available on all sorts of Amazon devices. (That said, the Silk browser experience is still … not great. Which means things like YouTube are nonstarters.) The biggest problem, then, is that Amazon remains the third option in a world dominated by Android and iOS. It’s a great alternative, but alternatives require the user to do more work than the default for things like voice and video calling, messaging, and photos. You either already need to be invested in the Amazon ecosystem (missed opportunity for “Amazon Echosystem,” maybe?), or willing to become so.
In any event, that conundrum isn’t new to the Echo Show 5. It was true for the previous version, and for the other displays in the Echosystem. (It’ll catch on, just you wait.) On its own, the Echo Show 5 is just fine. It’s a good way to get Alexa into whatever room you want, with some extras that sweeten the deal. Just make sure they’re extras you’re actually going to use. Because if not, a less expensive Echo Dot with a clock display may be all that you need. It’ll sound better, and save you a few bucks, too.
And your decision may well come down to the whims of Amazon pricing. At the time we’re writing this, the Echo Show 5 retails for $89. The 2021 Echo Show 8 , meanwhile, is on sale for $74. (It’s normally $129.) That should be a pretty easy choice.
Sales prices come and go, though. Meanwhile, the various variants of the Echo Show march on, steady as they go.
Editors' Recommendations Amazon Astro gets a day job with Astro for Business The best smart displays for 2023 Amazon’s Echo family expands with an on-wall hub, smart glasses, and more Best Amazon Echo deals: The Show, Pop and Dot are on sale What is Amazon Alexa, and what can it do? Audio / Video Amazon Product Reviews Smart Home Reviews Smart Home When it comes to smart home ecosystems, Amazon Alexa is at the top of the class. Not only can you create incredible routines and automate hundreds of tasks, but the number of Alexa-compatible gadgets seems to grow larger by the day. Better yet, Amazon is committed to making many of its hubs (including just about everything in the Echo lineup) work seamlessly with the Matter standard -- which should only make things more exciting throughout 2023.
In this guide, we review some of the best interactive Alexa hardware in the way of speakers, displays, lights, wall plugs, thermostats, smart locks, cameras, and appliances. You can make your life easier with an Alexa-powered home, and we’ll show you where to begin.
The best Alexa smart speakers and displays Smart Home The founder of Ring, Jamie Siminoff, is officially leaving Amazon. The company was sold to the e-commerce giant in 2018, and after a few years serving as chief inventor, Siminoff is ready for a new challenge -- serving as the CEO of Latch, Inc.
Latch is a smart lock company and maker of LatchOS, a platform looking to make “spaces better places to live, work, and visit.” Not only will Siminoff be serving as its new CEO later this year, but the company has also acquired Honest Day’s Work (HDW), a platform founded by Siminoff that gives residential service providers (such as dog walkers, drivers, and housekeepers) an easier way to manage their businesses.
Smart Home Amazon Astro is one of the most intriguing products in the Amazon catalog -- and a new report indicates it might become even more enticing in the future. According to internal documents, Amazon will be bringing enhanced AI to Astro, allowing it to perform more useful tasks around your home.
The AI project has been dubbed Burnham, and it’s hoping to turn Astro into more than just a smart home gimmick. Once the project is officially rolled out, Amazon hopes to give Astro the ability to better remember what it’s encountered in its environment and suggest things you can do to improve your home’s safety.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
