Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Smart Home Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The Amazon Echo Show 8 looks like a photo frame, kicks like a boombox By Nick Mokey Close $150.00 Shockingly great sound Convenient size and form factor Sharp, bright screen Support for common streaming apps High-quality camera Dated design Teeming with Amazon bloatware Poor video chat software support No Z-Wave, Eero mesh, line-out jack Most people know Alexa from Amazon’s too-inexpensive-to-resist Echo Dot speakers, but the plucky virtual assistant also presides over an entire Echo empire. You can buy an Echo Auto for your car, an Echo Link for your home theater, and an Echo Pop for anywhere with an outlet. Want a screen? The Echo Show line includes sizes from 5 to 15 inches that let you watch TV, look up recipes, and even videoconference from their built-in displays.
What’s new More than you signed up for Sound quality Screen time How new is new enough? Amazon just refreshed the Echo Show 8, a middle child fit for kitchens, offices and bedrooms, to add more smart home savvy. But does it bring enough perks to make it worth the $20 leap in price to $150? Which Amazon Echo should you buy? Best Amazon Echo deals: The Show, Pop and Dot are on sale Best Amazon Alexa accessories: lights, plugs, thermostats, cameras, and more What’s new I say “refreshed” and not “revamped” quite intentionally. If you have any familiarity at all with the previous two generations of the Echo Show 8, you may have trouble telling the new one apart at first glance. It sports almost exactly the same wedge shape, the same screen, and the same thick borders around the screen, which we already criticized as dated when we reviewed the Echo Show 8 second-gen in 2021.
Nick Mokey / Digital Trends But a few things have changed. The camera now lives in the center of the bezel instead of the corner, the speakers now deliver spatial audio , and it sports a built-in smart home hub.
 That means you can connect smart home devices powered by Zigbee, Matter, and Thread without purchasing standalone hubs for them.
Oh, and there’s at least one subtle change Amazon hasn’t been waving a flag on: it no longer sports a 3.5mm line out for connecting to external speakers, a feature that has also been quietly dropped from other new Echo devices.
More than you signed up for Amazon gets extra credit for packaging the Echo Show 8 in almost entirely recyclable materials, right down to using paper rather than plastic film to wrap the device and including zero Styrofoam. It’s not just better for the environment, but it’s way less obnoxious to dispose of.
After plugging it in with the included power adapter, it will ask for your Wi-Fi and Amazon credentials before walking you through some basic setup, like photographing your face from different angles to enable user recognition. You’ll get to make some fun customizations (Would you prefer nature photos or abstract art for your screensaver?) and you’ll roll your eyes through a gauntlet of Amazon nags (Do you want to set up Amazon Sidewalk ? Do you want a free trial of Amazon Music Unlimited? No? How about Audible ?).
Nick Mokey / Digital Trends At idle, the Echo Show 8 displays a carousel of “home content,” from local news to new recipes. I appreciate Amazon’s attempt to make the device useful out of the box, but some questionable choices reminded me of the bloat that comes on cheap desktop PCs. Shampoo suggestions? Build your own unicorn with Alexa? Get outta here with that. There are no fewer than 45 of these turned on by default, and you’ll need to dig in the settings menu to disable the ones you don’t like.
Amazon also supplies some preselected widgets, which take the form of shortcut icons in the upper right. Click the music icon, for example, and it displays four recommended Spotify playlists to jump right into. A widget gallery allows you to add new ones, but we found it a bit frustrating that when you go to add your first one, you’ll get an error that your device already has the maximum number of widgets, with no instructions on how to remove them. Not a great user experience.
Sound quality One of the biggest upgrades with the latest Echo Show 8 is support for spatial audio. While this surround technology is most closely associated with Dolby Atmos , that’s not what Amazon is using here. The Echo Show 8 remixes ordinary stereo tracks to mimic a surround effect, similar to the virtual spatialization in high-end headphones like the Bose QuietComfort Ultra.
 If you’re skeptical of what a device with just two drivers can do to feign convincing surround sound, I wouldn’t blame you. But you’d be surprised, because the Echo Show 8 punches way above its weight when you press play.
Nick Mokey / Digital Trends If you blindfolded someone and sat them in front of the Echo Show 8, I think they’d be shocked to see the size of the box when you pull off the veil. Seated just 2 feet away from it on a desk, tracks from Amazon Music’s Best of Spatial Audio playlist sounded supernaturally wide, as if some effects were coming from left and right speakers that don’t exist. And it doesn’t have to be new, specially mastered material. I swear the snare drum on Pavement’s aptly titled Stereo was coming out of a wall 5 feet away.
Dual 2-inch drivers may not seem capable of much, but it gets louder than you’d expect – my wife had to ask me to turn it down when she was on another floor in our house. Admittedly, its bass trends toward the “boomy” side at those volumes, but with drivers this size, asking more is pressing against the laws of physics. You’ll need to step up to the Echo Studio if you want to rattle some drywall. Most non-audiophile users will be thrilled with what you get at this size, particularly the vocal clarity.
Not all of this performance is new – we loved the sound in the last-generation Echo Show 8, too, which has the same driver setup. So while spatial audio is a nice perk, it’s not a prerequisite to rock out.
Screen time For anyone unacquainted with the Show concept, it’s probably worth running through what the screen brings to the table. New users will immediately appreciate how it brings a visual element to things you were already doing with an Echo speaker. Now you can see the name of the track that’s playing on Spotify , for instance, or glance at a multiday forecast chart, rather than just hearing Alexa recite the current temperature.
And make no mistake, this is a nice screen. Though it’s the same 1280 x 800 resolution as the prior models, it looks plenty sharp at this size, and gets bright enough to even be visible beneath skylights and next to windows. Like most phones, it will also warm up the tone in the evening to prevent blue light from interfering with your sleep.
Nick Mokey / Digital Trends With a screen that sharp, some users will naturally want to watch TV, and Amazon obliges with apps for Netflix , Hulu , and Amazon Prime Video.
 Due to a spat with Google , YouTube has no app, but the included Silk browser is an easy enough workaround to access it. Yes, there’s a browser on here, too. With an 8-inch screen, you probably won’t be too compelled to read the New York Times from bed, but it works in a bind for tasks like pulling up a recipe.
The 13-megapixel webcam is outstanding.
You can also videoconference on the Echo Show 8, like the ill-fated Facebook Portal.
 But there’s no support for common alternatives like Zoom , Teams , or Skype ; your intended recipient must either own a supported Echo device or have the Alexa app installed on their phone. After (reluctantly) sharing my contacts with Alexa, I discovered that maybe one in five of them had the Alexa app enabled – a pretty limited pool of folks to chat with. After testing, I can attest that the video quality on the 13-megapixel webcam is outstanding, but without support for the tools most people use, I fear it won’t get as much use as it should.
Packing support for Matter , Thread , and Zigbee into the Echo Show 8 is a nice perk for smart home enthusiasts, but Z-Wave is a notable omission. I was looking forward to ditching my Samsung smart hub until I realized that a single Z-Wave lock necessitated keeping it around. This situation won’t be unfamiliar to anyone who has been accumulating smart devices for a while. And there’s one other curious missing feature: The Echo Show 8 doesn’t work as an Eero mesh router extender as most other new Echos do.
 Even the $50 Echo Dot does that.
How new is new enough? If you’ve been dreaming of a screen to supplement your Alexafied household, the Echo Show 8 makes a lot of sense. Big enough to consume media (unlike the Echo Show 5 ) and small enough to fit just about anywhere (unlike the Echo Show 10 ), there’s a Goldilocks quality to this size.
Nick Mokey / Digital Trends But when Amazon counts moving the camera to the center as a “new feature,” we have to concede that the updates on tap here are pretty unambitious. Spatial audio and the smart home hub are both nice-to-haves, but frankly, there’s no way we’d spend $150 on them when the previous model now sells for $70.
 Maybe that’s an unfair comparison, because the last model is a steal at that price, but if you’re looking to buy one of these right now, you should absolutely buy the older model.
If you’re less concerned with value, or that sale has dried up by the time you read this, the Echo Show 8’s sonic chops is the most compelling reason to run out and buy one now.
Editors' Recommendations The best Alexa skills to use on your Amazon Echo in 2023 Amazon’s Echo family expands with an on-wall hub, smart glasses, and more What is Amazon Alexa, and what can it do? Amazon to pay $30M in FTC settlements over Alexa, Ring privacy violations What does the Amazon Echo yellow ring color mean? Amazon Amazon Alexa Product Reviews Smart Home Reviews Smart Home If you're looking to add a smart display to your home, the Amazon Echo Show is a great option. Bringing the best of Alexa into the visual realm, the Echo Show allows you to tap into real-time video from your home's smart security system, have video calls with friends and family using Alexa's Drop In feature, stream from Hulu and Prime Video, run photo slideshows, and so much more.
But glitches happen, and the Echo Show is not without its small trail of troubles. Fortunately, many of these issues have straightforward fixes. In this deep dive, we'll be taking a look at the most common Echo Show problems and how you can fix them.
Echo Show screen is flickering Smart Home The Echo Dot is a fantastic way to stay connected with your schedule, favorite streaming platforms, news, weather, and smart home devices, but it's not without its glitches. Once in a while, you may experience a Wi-Fi dropout or other frustrating hiccup. Not to worry though: Most of these bugs have simple solutions to get things back on track. For your consideration, we've rounded up some of the most common Echo Dot issues users face and what you can do to fix your troublesome Dot if it decides to act up.
Having trouble with other Amazon products? Check out our roundups of the most common Echo Show and Echo Bud issues and how to fix them. Issues with your network? Check out our list of the most common Wi-Fi problems (with solutions).
Your Echo Dot won't connect to Wi-Fi Smart Home Amazon Alexa might be one of the most popular smart assistants, but it’s not without a few flaws. For instance, some users have experienced crashes while using the Amazon Alexa app -- and others have found the app to be entirely unresponsive when trying to control their Amazon Echo devices.
Issues like this are typically picked up on by Amazon and immediately fixed with a patch, but sometimes there’s an issue on the user’s end that needs to be remedied before things start functioning as intended. If your Amazon Alexa app is not working or responding, here are a few ways to fix it.
Check for a software update Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
