Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Smart Home News Amazon Astro gets a day job with Astro for Business By Jon Bitner Close Amazon Amazon Astro — the adorable household robot from Amazon that’s yet to see a public release — is gaining a new family member today with the launch of Astro for Business. A pilot program for the homebot began last year, and it looks like the unique gadget is ready to go live following its success.
Astro for Business differs from the standard Amazon Astro in some big ways. For one, it’s specifically designed to work as a smart security solution for small and medium-sized businesses. That means it’s possible to do away with complex security systems and instead opt for this roving robot. The quirky product combines AI software with hardware such as a periscope camera to help prevent break-ins and quickly alert you if something goes awry.
Three subscription plans are available for Astro for Business, allowing you to optimize its performance to your specific needs. The cheapest package is Ring Protect Pro at $20 per month, introducing a 180-day video history and the ability to sync Astro with your Ring Alarm. Astro Secure costs $60 per month and adds autonomous patrolling to Astro, while the Virtual Security Guard package costs $99 per month and lets professional agents respond to alerts from Astro.
Amazon Astro for Business costs $2,350 and comes with a free four-month trial of Ring Protect Pro.
Matter adds support for fridges, air purifiers, robot vacuums, and more with massive 1.2 update Here’s how to throw a killer Halloween party with your smart home Nanoleaf gets into the holiday spirit with Matter-enabled string lights While it’s great to see Astro for Business getting a mainstream release, it’s a bit peculiar the original Amazon Astro is still available by invitation only. The robot is largely designed to do many of the same things as Astro for Business — including acting as a security guard — but we’re yet to get a firm release date from Amazon.
At any rate, the arrival of Astro for Business signals good news for the consumer-oriented Amazon Astro, as the two share much of the same DNA. We’ve reached out to a representative for comment about an Amazon Astro release date and will update this story when we hear back.
For now, you’ll be limited to requesting an invitation or picking up Astro for Business.
Editors' Recommendations The best smart home devices for 2023 Alexa vs. HomeKit: Which smart home platform is best? Are smart blinds worth it? New Yale Assure Lock 2 models get fingerprint scanner, support for Apple Home keys The Amazon Echo Hub is almost the whole-home hub I’ve always wanted Amazon Tech News Smart Home If you’ve ever used the last Amazon Echo Show 8, you mostly have a pretty good idea of what you’re going to get with this updated model: a decent screen with which to see things, a surprisingly good speaker.
And that’s still true going into this new iteration, one of several new Echo devices announced today. Even in our crowded, noisy demo area after Amazon's fall devices event at its new HQ2 building in Arlington, Virginia, you could hear music (the sort your kids love) just fine. The speaker on this thing is still surprisingly good.
Smart Home Amazon Astro came as a surprise when it was revealed in September 2021. The quirky device does a little bit of everything, serving as a robot companion that boasts facial recognition, impressive navigation skills, and tons of useful home security features.
But a lot has changed with Astro since it was first announced, and it's gotten some new competition in the form of EBO X. Here’s a look at everything we know about Astro, including how you can get your hands on it and add it to your home.
Designed to rove around the home Smart Home Nest Aware and Nest Aware Plus — the optional subscription services that allow for cloud-based recording on Google's Nest cameras — are getting more expensive in the U.S., U.K, and Australia.
Current subscribers are receiving emails alerting them to a 33% increase for Nest Aware, going from $6 a month or $60 a year to $8 a month or $80 a year. Nest Aware Plus — which doubles event video history from 30 to 60 days and adds 24/7 video history — is going from $12 a month or $120 a year to $15 a month or $150 a year. The new pricing already is in effect for new subscribers.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
