Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Smart Home Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best robot vacuums for 2023 By Michael Bizzaco and Erika Rawes Close Adding a robot vacuum to your home is a great way to automate your cleaning. These nifty devices will clean your floors with little to no manual input -- freeing up your time for more exciting endeavors. Some are even capable of emptying their own dustbin or pull double duty as a mop. Not all robot vacuums are created equal, however, and finding the best robot vacuums takes a bit of digging.
The first thing you'll need to do when searching for a robot vacuum is set a budget. Robot vacuums run the gamut from a few hundred bucks to well over $1,000. Many of the best robot vacuums cost at least $500, and going any lower could result in poor performance or the need to constantly interact with your device (such as to empty its dustbin, untangle it from furniture, or help it back to its dock).
Many of the best products on the market are designed by Roborock, Ecovacs, and iRobot. These three companies have built a massive roster of robot vacuums, and most products from these brands are reliable and offer impressive cleaning skills. If you need help narrowing down your options, here's a look at the best robot vacuums of 2023, including both budget picks and premium gadgets.
Note that several of these also double as mops, making them great options for homes with both carpet and hard floors.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
More More More More More Roborock Roborock S8 Pro Ultra The best overall Impressive vacuuming skills Mops and vacuums in a single run Automatically cleans and empties itself Easy-to-use smartphone app Mop only lifts up a few millimeters It’s not cheap, but the Roborock S8 Pro Ultra is worth every penny. Its ability to both mop and vacuum without manual input is just the tip of the iceberg, as you’ll also be treated to a charging station that automatically empties its dustbin so you don’t have to worry about it for more than a month. It can also clean (and dry) the mopheads so there’s no mold buildup. Best of all, the vacuum maxes out at a staggering 6,000 Pa of suction, allowing it to provide an impressive clean that’s leagues ahead of the competition.
Like all Roborock products, this one comes with a sleek design and powerful smartphone app. Using the app, you can schedule cleanings, check when maintenance needs to be performed, or run a customized cleaning if you accidently spill something or just need another vacuuming before guests show up. It’s an incredibly versatile device – and if you truly want to automate your cleaning, this is the robot vacuum to get. Looking to save a bit of cash? Consider the outgoing Roborock S7 lineup instead.
Ecovacs Ecovacs Deebot T20 Omni Best for mopping Sleek design Powerful mopping pads Enough suction for thick carpet Mop cleaning with hot water and hot air Not ideal for thick carpets The Deebot T10 Omni was quickly replaced by the T20 Omni, which isn’t just cheaper, but it’s better in almost all aspects. The biggest upgrade is its retractable mopheads, allowing it to vacuum and mop in one pass. It also features more suction (6,000 Pa) and a dock that uses both warm water and warm air to clean itself. There’s also a dustbin that stores up to 60 days of debris, allowing you to go weeks without dirtying your hands.
More Jon Bitner / Digital Trends Ecovacs Deebot X2 Omni Impressive suction and vacuuming Retractable mopping pads Self-emptying and cleaning Sleek, square design Minimal improvements over existing T20 Omni While the Ecovacs Deebot X2 Omni isn’t a massive leap forward from the T20 Omni, there’s no doubt it’s a better robot vacuum. Offering more suction (8,000 Pa), a self-emptying dustbin that can last for 90 days, and a gorgeous new design, Ecovacs made tons of incremental improvements for the X2 Omni.
Beyond those minor improvements, much remains the same. This includes a docking station that uses hot water and air to clean and dry its mops, a robust smartphone app, and a great smartphone app to power all the action.
All those features come at a price, with the X2 Omni clocking in at a hefty $1,500. It’s often on sale, however, and there’s no denying it’s among the best robot vacuums available today. Consider cross-shopping it with the Roborock S8 Pro Ultra, as it boasts a similar price tag and features.
Nick Mokey/Digital Trends Roborock S7 Max Ultra Best low-maintenance option Self-emptying, self-cleaning Simple setup Quiet Great mopping performance Decent obstacle avoidance Lackluster pet hair pickup on carpet Large dock The S7 Max Ultra is remarkably similar to the S8 Pro Ultra. Not only can it mop and vacuum in a single run, but it can hold up to seven weeks of debris in its docking station. The docking station is also capable of cleaning its mopping pad with water, then performing a warm air dry to eliminate odors. It’s lacking a bit of suction compared to its more expensive sibling (5,500 Pa compared to 6,000 Pa) and it can’t lift its brush while mopping (although it can lift its mop while vacuuming). But aside from that, there isn’t much you’re missing out on. And since it costs a few hundred dollars less, it’s a great way to get a premium product and save a bit of cash.
More Image used with permission by copyright holder iRobot Roomba s9+ (9550) Most versatile Superb cleaning performance Self-emptying dust bin Multi-floor smart mapping Precise object detection and navigation High price Sure, a robot vacuum makes cleaning your floors a heck of a lot easier. But, you still have to empty the dustbin just about every time you run it. With its Clean Base and compatibility with Alexa and Google Assistant, the S9+ is capable of literally vacuuming without having you lift a finger. Just say “Alexa” or “OK, Google, ask Roomba to start cleaning,” and your S9+ will start cleaning. The best part about the S9+ is that it sucks dirt and debris into an anti-allergen base that holds up to 30 deposits (60 days of dirt).
In addition to being one of the most user-friendly robots you can buy, the S9+ adopts a new D-shaped design to allow for better edge and corner cleaning. Naturally, it’s outfitted with the latest tech under the hood — consisting of a new 3D sensor in the front bumper that enhances Roomba’s wall detection, a more powerful cleaning head, and intelligent mapping. It can tell where it has already been and where it still needs to clean. The robot can clean your entire home, or you can instruct it to clean specific places. Its sensors can locate the higher traffic areas in your home, and the robot will be extra attentive to those dirtier areas of your floors. The S9+ is perfect for those that can’t fit a regular upright vac cleaning into their packed schedule, thanks in part to the many automations and customizations the bot is capable of.
While the iRobot Roomba S9+ is expensive, its performance and features are top-notch. If you want the best of the best in terms of robot vacuums, the S9+ is the way to go.
More John Velasco / Digital Trends iRobot Roomba j7+ Best for object avoidance Good job at avoiding wires Lower-profile self-emptying base Solid all-around cleaning Efficiently cleans in zigzag pattern Deep carpet cleaning performance is lacking Somewhat loud while vacuuming There's a good reason that iRobot's product line is featured twice in this roundup. While the Roomba j7+ may not offer the same suction power and full 3D environmental scanning as the leading s9+ model, it still packs in plenty of great cleaning tech for a few hundred dollars less than the flagship Roomba.
Chief among the j7+'s vacuum capabilities is something that Roomba calls PrecisionVision Navigation. This cleaning tech ensures that the j7+ avoids things like shoes, wires, and other floor-based obstacles when cycling through the many rooms of your home. There's also Reactive Sensor Technology, an avoidance feature that allows you to tell the j7+ where it isn't allowed to clean.
The j7+ does a great job of tackling messes by vacuuming in zig-zagging patterns and is also smart enough to return to its charging bin/dirt disposal tank when the battery is low and when the dustbin is chock full of debris.
If you're looking for something even fancier, consider picking up the Roomba Combo j7+ , which can go from mopping to vacuuming without any manual input (thanks to a nifty mophead that automatically stows away when not in use).
Image used with permission by copyright holder Eufy BoostIQ RoboVac 30 Best multisurface Adaptive cleaning Great price Customizable companion app Not compatible with voice assistants Sensors can be finicky sometimes Whether you need a quick sweep or a full home detail, the Eufy RoboVac G30 is your best bet for getting the house spotless. With Eufy’s Smart Dynamic Navigation 2.0, your RoboVac takes a detailed scan of your home that the vac will reference during each cleaning. Where other robot vacs set off on randomized paths when enabled, the RoboVac will build its cleaning course based on what floor it’s located on, the room, and the surface type it will be cleaning.
Featuring 2000Pa of suction power, the RoboVac will have zero issues with whatever carpeting, tile, hardwoods, or other surfaces your home has to throw at it. Plus, with the included BoostIQ technology, the RoboVac will automatically increase suction power when it moves from a hard surface to a carpeted area, so you won’t have to worry about adjusting suction strength in the companion app.
Speaking of which, the Eufy app (for iOS and Android devices) is your one-stop command center for your Eufy RoboVac G30, allowing you to assign spot cleaning duties, create vacuum schedules, view the bot’s cleaning history, and more.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Samsung Jet Bot AI+ Best for home security Home security patrol feature works well More efficient cleaning performance Good at avoiding obstacles Minimal disposal with self-emptying system Pricey cost Hefty design Having a mobile security camera that you can access on the go is never a bad idea. Fortunately, the Samsung Jet Bot AI+ boasts a powerful security camera that you view through the SmartThings app. Once in a room, the vac will scan the environment and send you a notification if it detects a motion. While it won't cue up automatically, you can still build a schedule for the vac to follow.
In terms of cleaning features, there's plenty on board to get your house spotless. Lidar sensors create detailed maps of your home while navigating the vac to all the hard-to-see cracks and crevices, employing a main roller brush and side-sweepers to grab whatever dirt and pet hair is around. Object avoidance is on-point, too, combining lidar and the camera to keep away from valuables and furniture while still getting the job done.
Voice controls, a 90-minute runtime, and automatic dirt disposal are all sweet additions to this Samsung package. While the price is a bit on the high side, the Samsung Jet Bot AI+ is a phenomenal patrol vac and a solid cleaner, too. Read our full review of the Samsung Jet Bot AI+ , and learn about how the vacuum uses A.I.
More John Velasco / Digital Trends iRobot Roomba i3+ EVO Excellent cleaning performance Efficiently cleans to save time Auto dirt disposal system Great at avoiding obstacles Can't create virtual boundaries Sounds obnoxiously loud emptying If you only need a robot vacuum (that is, you don’t need something that can also mop), then the iRobot Roomba i3+ EVO is a solid choice. Not only is it reasonably priced, but it can perform self-emptying tasks for up to 60 days before its docking station needs to be manually cleaned.
Beyond its impressive self-emptying skills, you’ll be treated to impressive cleaning skills thanks to an edge-sweeping brush, two rubber brushes to pull out debris and pet hair from your carpet, and intelligent sensors that automatically adjust the roller height to optimize its performance based on the surface it’s traveling across. The EVO can also detect how dirty a surface is, allowing it to ramp up its cleaning abilities for areas that need a bit more care.
More iRobot iRobot Roomba Combo j5+ Robot Vacuum and Mop Mops and vacuums Charging station holds 60 days of debris Under $1,000 Not as automated as more expensive products The Comobo j5+ isn’t quite as automated as other robot vacuums on this list, but is still versatile enough to vacuum and mop your home. The main thing to consider is that you’ll need to manually swap out its bin to change its functions -- one bin turns it into a robot vacuum, while the other adds mopping skills.
Aside from that quirk, this is a powerful robot vacuum that’s great for anyone seeking a product under $1,000. Rounding out the Combo j5+ is a dock that holds 60 days of debris before needing to be emptied, impressive AI navigation skills, and support for Alexa, Siri, and Google Assistant.
Frequently Asked Questions A robot vacuum turns the normal push-and-pull labor of vacuuming your whole home into an automated cleaning experience. Additional customizations for scheduling and bot settings are adjustable in the bot’s companion app. You can also use a number of voice assistants to give commands to the bot.
Typically, robot vacuums are puck-shaped and often measure no wider than 10 to 12 inches. Casing colors are usually hues that will blend in well with common home decor, with white and black featuring prominently across multiple brands.
Many of today’s leading robot vacuums come with dirt-disposal stations that your bot will automatically connect to for emptying its internal debris tank. These stations often feature disposable dirt bags that can carry dirt for as long as 60 days before replacement is necessary.
Still not sure which model to get? Check out our robot vacuum guide that can help you decide.
Editors' Recommendations Best Black Friday vacuum deals on Shark, Roomba, Bissell, and more Best robot mops of 2023 This Shark robot vacuum just had its price slashed from $249 to $129 The best indoor security cameras of 2023 Best cordless vacuum deals: Get a Dyson-style vac for $89 Best Products Robot Vacuums Smart Home Needing a little help around the house is a good reason to embrace the conveniences of modern technology. A robot vacuum makes a good helping hand, and iRobot’s Roomba lineup is one of the most popular. Now is also a great time to shop, as robot vacuum deals are hot with early Black Friday sales providing some good discounts. A lot can go into determining how to choose a robot vacuum, but if you know what you need and a Roomba fits the bill, these are the best Black Friday Roomba deals available right now.
iRobot Roomba 694 — $250, was $275 The Roomba robot vacuum lineup is known the world over for its great design and smart capabilities, and the iRobot Roomba 694 is one of the most popular models available. It features a clean, minimal design that remains unobtrusive even when the Roomba is hard at work. It has the ability to dock itself automatically for recharging when its battery is low, and has many features that are often associated with more expensive robot vacuums. As you’ll find in many of the best robot vacuums, adaptive navigation sensors keep the Roomba 694 going amidst you and your household objects, and it easily navigates around things such as furniture, feet, and even pets.
Smart Home You don't need to wait for Black Friday if you're thinking about taking advantage of robot vacuum deals because some retailers like Walmart and Best Buy are already offering massive discounts on these cleaning devices. Here are some of the top bargains that are available right now, but if you want to pocket the savings from any of them, you're going to have to be quick with your purchase. We're not sure how long it will take before their stocks run out or when their prices will return to normal, so you better hurry.
IonVac SmartClean 2000 -- $99, was $275 The IonVac SmartClean 2000 may be cheap, but it will get the job done in keeping your floors clean with 2,000Pa of suction power and a complete cleaning system that includes a roller brush, side brushes. and and rubber terrain wheels. You can start and stop cleaning sessions through the robot vacuum's remote, companion app, or a smart home device powered by Google Assistant or Amazon's Alexa. It's equipped with sensors to prevent it from bumping into furniture and falling down the stairs, and it can run for up to 100 minutes before going back to its charging station.
Smart Home Prime Day deals present a great opportunity to grab smart home devices that are usually just out of your price range; for instance, a quality robot vacuum. Right now the Roborock Q7 Max+ robot vacuum is down to $500 after a $370 discount. That brings this robot vacuum down from the luxury price range into the good investment price range. Grab it today, because Prime Big Deal Days ends tonight.
Why you should buy the Roborock Q7 Max+ robot vacuum The Roborock Q7 Max+ is an upscale robot vacuum and mop that competes with the best that Roomba has to offer. It comes with a charging station that also functions as a trash can, so the Roborock can return there and empty its dustbin before returning to finish the rest of its clean. That means you only have to empty the dustbin in the hub maybe once a week instead of the robot itself every day.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
