Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Smart Home Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Breville Joule Oven Air Fryer Pro review: one really smart oven By Joni Blecher Close $399.95 Cooks food evenly 13 cooking options Smart app that works seamlessly with oven Eliminates the need for multiple small appliances Bagel function doesn't work quite right We had our doubts when we heard the Joule Oven Air Fryer Pro app helped cook the food it made, but then we tested it. As far as smart ovens go, the app gives it all the brains it needs to cook and bake delicious meals. That said, the app can only do so much, and this oven, with its 13 cooking functions, needs to do most of the heavy lifting. We spent three months putting all those features to the test, and this is what we found out.
Breville Joule Oven Air Fryer Pro: compact and powerful Breville Joule Oven Air Fryer Pro: super smart app You, too, can make delicious food with the Breville Joule Oven Air Fryer Pro Breville Joule Oven Air Fryer Pro: compact and powerful The Breville Joule Oven Air Fryer Pro is a little bigger than a standard toaster oven. The brushed stainless steel oven measures 21.5 by 17.5 by 12.7 inches, so it will fit nicely on a counter and even under a cupboard with a little room to spare. But you’re giving up that area of the counter to fit the Joule. Inside, the oven is quite spacious with its 1 cubic foot interior. You can easily fit a whole chicken in there and roast it, air fry it, bake it, or slow cook it.
Don’t miss these Prime Day air fryer deals, from just $20 5 health benefits of smart air purifiers, according to science Molekule adds an Air Score to its Air Pro purifier With 13 different functions, the Joule can handle everything you throw its way.
Speaking of ways to cook, the Joule has got you covered with 13 functions: toast, bagel, bake, air fry, broil, roast, pizza, cookies, proof, reheat, slow cook, keep warm, and dehydrate. It comes with most of the accessories you need to take advantage of all those settings. In the box, you’ll find a 13-inch pizza pan, two oven racks, a broil rack/enamel roasting pan, and a mesh basket for use with the air fryer and dehydrator. Each of those accessories slides easily into one of the eight rack positions — there’s even room in the back of the oven to accommodate the curve of the pizza pan.
The designers wanted people to enjoy this Joule at its optimum performance, so they made it insanely easy to use. The word intuitive doesn’t even apply because the LCD literally tells you where to place the rack or mesh basket based on each function. Here’s a stroke of genius: The wire rack is designed to rotate its position to fit into the numbered slots — on one side, it sits lower in the oven, and on the other, the food is a bit higher up. There are only three knobs and six buttons on the oven that are below the light blue backlit display.
Image used with permission by copyright holder You navigate the oven functions with the confirm/rotate button, adjust the temp/toast darkness with one of the bigger knobs, and time/how many slices with the bottom nob. The start/stop button is self-explanatory. For the most part, those are the only controls you need for operation. However, the other buttons are to turn on the light, switch between convection and super convection, a bit more time, frozen food, and a favorite configuration .
Breville Joule Oven Air Fryer Pro: super smart app I’m not usually a fan of apps for small appliances , mainly because they really don’t add to the experience. But if all smart home apps were like the Joule Oven app, I’d be a convert. In addition to featuring tons of tasty recipes from the Breville test kitchen, famous chefs, New York Times Cooking, America’s Test Kitchen, Williams Sonoma, Serious Eats, and more, it actually connects with the oven to aid in cooking. When you need to step in and rotate a pan, you get an alert on your phone. The timer on the oven will pause while you make the rotation. You’d think all apps would work so seamlessly, but no.
Setting up the app takes just a minute and is extremely intuitive. It uses Bluetooth to find the oven and then connects to your Wi-Fi network. Think carefully about what you’d like to name your oven because that’s how it will appear on the alerts. You can also connect it to work with Google Assistant and Alexa , so instead of telling the app to tell the oven to do something you can just ask Google or Alexa. Once set up, there are countless recipes that range from making bread to air fryer chicken sandwiches to prosciutto, goat cheese, and fig pizza to cookies. You can favorite recipes and view which recipes you made and when. Some of them are basic, where you’ll need to set the oven yourself, and others are ChefSteps where the app works with the oven to cook the food. These are denoted with an airplane icon in the corner of the app image. When you make one of those recipes, it truly is a set-it and forget-it cooking experience. You’ll receive notifications on your phone when you need to do something or when cooking is complete. I appreciated that feature.
The recipes are straightforward and include a list of ingredients, total time, active time, serving amount, and skill level. Each step has a corresponding video, so if a cooking or baking term is new, the app demonstrates it for you. As you work through the recipe, when it’s time to cook or set a timer, the app tells you that, too. It even includes the rack to use in the oven. My favorite app feature is that your phone screen stays on when you’re making a recipe. You will never need to use your sticky fingers to enter your phone’s passcode to return to the recipe.
I used the app recipes to make a ton of meals, and everything came out pretty well and nothing was burned or undercooked.
I used the app recipes to make a ton of meals, and everything came out pretty well and nothing was burned or undercooked. The most impressive thing I made was croissants. This recipe uses the ChefSteps, so once you roll the croissants and put them in the oven, they go through the proofing process first, and then the app switches the oven to baking mode. They turned out perfect — flaky, buttery goodness.
Image used with permission by copyright holder You, too, can make delicious food with the Breville Joule Oven Air Fryer Pro Perhaps the biggest testament to the Joule’s versatility and power is that I didn’t turn my oven on once in the three months of testing, and I cook three to four times a week. I was able to prepare everything in the Joule oven. For those who don’t want to turn on an oven during the summer, consider this model as an alternate cooking solution. I did try a lot of the recipes in the app, cooked some frozen meals, baked croissants, toasted a bevy of breads, air-fried tasty tempura treats and potatoes, dehydrated zucchini, reheated leftovers, used the broil mode to grill prosciutto-wrapped halloumi, and kept a side dish warm while I finished another part of the meal on the stove. For the most part, it all turned out just about perfectly.
The only real issue I had, and it was all user error, came when roasting a turkey breast. Now, to be clear, I’ve never roasted anything before using a roast setting … I never had the option. There wasn’t a turkey breast roasting recipe in the app. I decided to wing it, what could go wrong? Well, roast and bake mode (especially in a convection oven) are two entirely different things. I put the turkey in the oven (it fit perfectly in the included roasting pan), selected 350, and Roast for 2.5 hours. After the first hour, the top of the turkey breast was beautiful — like something you’d see on the glossy pages of a food magazine. After the second hour, I sensed I probably should have taken it out sooner. Still beautiful, I cut into the turkey, to find the driest piece of meat I’ve ever seen — it basically shriveled up on itself. This little experiment made me come to rely on the Joule Oven app, as it really knows what it’s doing.
My only quibble was with the bagel function, which is supposed to crisp the inside of the bagel while keeping the outside lightly toasted. I could never get the bagel function to work properly — the inside of the bagel had an odd texture that wasn’t crisp or soft. Using the toasting function on a bagel did do the trick. I’ve seen quite a few smart ovens with this feature and I’m not sure what the appeal is.
The Breville Joule Oven Air Fryer Pro comes with a limited two-year warranty and costs about $400. At that price, it’s more expensive than other smart ovens like the Ninja Foodi Dual Heat Air Fry Oven , but the Breville’s cooking/baking functions are more in line with how people cook. Combine that functionality with an app full of recipes that also facilitates taking care of the time-sensitive details (let’s face it, can take a meal from magic to tragic), and the Breville, even though more expensive, is a better choice for people who like to cook.
Editors' Recommendations Best air fryer deals: As cheap as $25 What are smart ovens and smart stoves? App makes Breville Joule Oven Air Fryer Pro truly smart Your Whirlpool smart oven can now act as an air fryer, too How to know when to change your smart air purifier’s filter Appliance Reviews Appliances Product Reviews Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Any home benefits from an air purifier. Cleaner air means better overall health, fewer allergies, and even better sleep. The downside is that air purifiers take up a significant amount of space, especially the larger air purifiers. Leave it to Ikea to solve that problem by combining an air purifier with a side table to address both form and function.
The Starkvind air purifier rests on the underside of a side table, away from the floor. It's designed to service rooms up to 65 feet in size. The Starkvind works on its own, but you can also connect it to the Tradfri gateway to schedule it through the Ikea Home app. It has five different fan speeds and an auto-mode that adjusts based on the number of particles in the air.
Smart Home According to many people, cooking is an art -- and like any art, it takes time become good at it. While anyone can eventually master making great meals in the kitchen, sometimes you just want to sit back and relax while the work is done for you. That's where the June Smart Oven comes in.
On Wednesday, June announced the launch of its third-generation smart oven. This appliance utilizes the latest artificial intelligence to elevate at-home cooking by automatically detecting what kind of food is placed inside it and creating an automatic cook-program.
Deals Prime Day might not officially start until the 13th, but Amazon has already begun to drop some deals ahead of time. The Philips Premium Airfryer XXL has been reduced in price by a whopping $180 -- a Prime Day Deal that isn't likely to be beaten by any other retailer this year.
The Philips Premium Airfryer XXL makes it easy to cook delicious food with almost none of the oil. The fat removal technology helps cut down on the amount of excess fat in your food, removing it entirely from the meal so that you can enjoy the taste of fried foods with fewer of the unhealthy parts. The fat is gathered at the bottom of the air fryer and can just be poured out when you have finished cooking your meal.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
