Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Smart Home Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Click & Grow 25 review: fresh veggies on a weekly basis By Patrick Hearn Close $750.00 Modular units that can expand Weekly harvests Automated watering & lighting Wide variety of plant options Expensive Difficult to assemble The size, shape, and number of smart gardens has exploded over the past year. There are so many varieties and options that it can be hard to nail them all down, especially when most of the systems offer similar services.
What’s in the box? Setup and assembly requires multiple cups of coffee Click & Grow plant variety Day-to-day use I sat down with the Click & Grow 25, a modular system that can handle up to 75 plants in total if you have a stack of three units (I only had one). It’s a relatively hands-off system that requires minimal maintenance after you finish setting it up.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Trust me when I say that is a good thing. It also uses a different method for watering the plants than any other smart garden I’ve used in the past, and it provides easy accessibility to the plants. While it’s still far beyond the impulse buy threshold for most people at $730 (or over $2,000 if you buy three of them), the Click & Grow 25 is a solid entry point to a smart garden.
What’s in the box? The Click & Grow 25 comes with a veritable treasure trove of different parts, including power cable clamps, stacking clamps, nuts, an L-wrench, adhesive pads for the legs, a hex wrench, M4 screws, and more. If this is beginning to sound like an IKEA system, you aren’t wrong — setup and assembly is a pain, but we’ll get to that.
The core of the system consists of the frame of the garden. It’s made up of a top and bottom piece, as well as four legs. The bottom section of the Click & Grow 25 is a drawer that slides out for easy access to the plants within. There are also individual plant trays that can be removed and swapped out. It’s useful if you want to start your growth and let it germinate before putting it into the smart garden.
Setup and assembly requires multiple cups of coffee When I first tried to put the Click & Grow together, I found myself confused by its instructions. They aren’t the clearest or easiest to follow, though I’ve since discovered a how-to video on the company’s website.
Image used with permission by copyright holder That said, I suggest being fully awake and alert you before you try to assemble this. It can be done by yourself, but it will take a bit of finagling to get the pieces in the right position. Also, many of the included parts aren’t necessary if you have only one module; the wall safety clamp, for example, is only used in a stacked unit.
The Click & Grow 25 isn’t overly difficult to assemble, but the process can be frustrating at times due to unclear instructions.
After you assemble the the Click & Grow 25, the next step is to pair it via Bluetooth to your mobile device. That’s pretty simple to do. It will then ask you to add water to the drawer; at a guess, I’d say it would hold about two gallons of water, although the specs say it maxes out at around 1.2 gallons. When I filled it, a single gallon came nowhere near the max fill line.
Adding plants is the next step. From within the app, you choose which kind of plant you want to add. You can search by name, or you can scan the QR code on the bottom of the box. The Click & Grow pods are tight bundles of soil with a seed in the center. There’s no real casing around them; just place the pod in one of the empty spaces, but make sure to add it to the app when you do.
The app notifies you when it’s time to cycle it out, lets you know what to expect from it, and more.
Click & Grow plant variety The Click & Grow 25 has a lot of different plant variety.
 Mine came with multiple options, including kale, lettuce, mustard, and more. A few of the more interesting selections on their website include mizuna, rainbow chard, wild strawberries, chili peppers, and other fruits.
Image used with permission by copyright holder If you want, you can even grow flowers in the Click & Grow. Who says it has to be all about food? The pods can be purchased in packs of three, nine, or 54. Buying in bulk is your friend; the more you buy at once, the less expensive each individual pod will be. On average, they’re anywhere from $2.40 each and up.
Day-to-day use The Click & Grow 25 isn’t like other smart gardens I’ve used. It doesn’t have a watering cycle that filters moisture through the plants; instead, each container is connected via a tube to the water beneath. The plants pull the liquid they need as they need it, much like a more traditional hydroponics system.
What is automatic (but can be manually controlled) is the lighting. You can choose the hours when the lights turn on and off, but the plants will need a set amount of light each day in order to thrive. Click & Grow promises a five-week rotation; in other words, you should be able to start one tray of plants one week, then another the week after that, and so on until you have a rotating cycle of plant harvests. The trays are designed to move so that you can easily pull the ready-to-harvest plants from the garden, slide the rest of the trays down, and place new growth in the original spot.
The promise of the Click & Grow 25 is weekly harvest of fresh, high quality vegetables.
There’s a Click & Grow membership that not only brings the initial purchase price down, but cuts 33% from the cost of individual plant pods. Users get to choose which greens they grow each week, and you’ll receive those in a monthly shipment. It also includes a sprouting guarantee; in other words, if the pod doesn’t sprout, Click & Grow will replace it.
Unlike other smart gardens I’ve used, the Click & Grow app didn’t infuriate me. It tells me what I need to know, and it doesn’t crash when I try to use its basic functions.
The Click & Grow positions itself in a smart way. Unlike some of its competition, it’s not completely over-the-top expensive, but it does provide more than just three or six places for plants. It’s a great choice for families that want to eat more greens but who don’t have the space for their own gardens. For someone on their own, the Click & Grow 25 would produce a reasonable amount of food — not enough to pay for its high price tag anytime soon, mind you, but enough to make you satisfied with the purchase.
Editors' Recommendations Best indoor smart gardens Product Reviews Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Black Friday is a great opportunity to land some savings on household appliances, and this year’s early Black Friday deals include a lot of great discounts on washer and dryer bundles. The best washing machines and the best dryers are made all the better when they come bundled together. We’ve tracked down the best washer and dryer bundles you can shop this Black Friday, with several different brands offering a range of features and capacities to choose from.
Best LG washer & dryer Black Friday deals LG is one of the most well-known names in electronics. It makes devices from TVs to smartphones, but its home appliances are perhaps its most impressive lineup. LG has a lot to offer when it comes to washer and dryer bundles. It makes a lot of different models of varying capacities, and it offers some of the most cutting edge washing and drying smart features as well.
Smart Home Matter is arguably the biggest thing to happen to smart homes since their inception. The interoperability feature lets devices from different ecosystems interact with each other, giving you the freedom to shop for your favorite products regardless of manufacturer. Unfortunately, not all devices have rolled out support for Matter – and not all of them will.
Some notable products support Matter as of today, although dozens more are expected to add the functionality in the coming months. For now, here are the 11 best smart home products that support Matter. For a full list, head over to the official Matter website.
Deals There's never been a better time to spring for sustainable and portable power options, especially with BLUETTI offering some great Black Friday deals, plus an exclusive discount -- which we'll tell you more about in a second. These deals also coincide with a brand new release from the brand, with the debut of the BLUETTI AC200L portable solar generator and power station. It features a 2400-watt output, 2,048-watt-hour capacity, and a 1,200-watt solar input for speedy charging. It's a sleek newcomer that can be boosted to 3,600 watts in a PowerLifting mode for your extensive yet adaptable energy needs. More on that new station and the great deals below.
For a limited time, from November 17 until November 30, Digital Trends readers can use the coupon code DT100 at checkout to receive an extra $20 off. Yes, that code stacks with existing Black Friday deals.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
