Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Smart Home Guides Cordless vs. robot vacuums: which one should you buy? By Jon Bitner Close When it comes to keeping your floors clean, robot vacuums and cordless vacuums are among the best products you can buy. Robot vacuums have become increasingly popular over the past few years — thanks to their ability to clean your home autonomously — but cordless vacuums offer plenty of advantages over their robotic counterparts.
Cordless vacuums offer a better cleaning Robot vacuums are more convenient Cordless vacuums are more affordable Robot vacuums can also mop Is a robot vacuum better than a cordless vacuum? Deciding between the two isn’t easy, and thankfully, it’s hard to make a wrong decision. Both are well-equipped to clean your floors, but there are some big trade-offs you’ll have to make for each class. So, which is better? Robot vacuums or cordless vacuums? Here’s a closer look to help you decide which is best for your smart home.
The SwitchBot Mini Robot Vacuum K10+ is designed for cramped rooms and tight spaces The best robot vacuums for 2023 Best cordless vacuum deals: Get a Dyson-style vac for $89 Cordless vacuums offer a better cleaning Dyson Robot vacuums have made massive strides, but there’s no denying that cordless vacuums typically provide you with a better cleaning experience. Their larger size allows them to produce impressive suction and airflow numbers, enabling them to pull up all sorts of debris from your carpets. They also tend to come with additional attachments, so you can clean furniture or nooks and crannies throughout your home.
Many robot vacuums advertise impressive suction numbers, but they simply can’t match the cleaning prowess of cordless vacuums. Of course, this can vary widely based on specific models, but in general, cordless vacuums provide you with a more robust cleaning experience than robot vacuums.
Robot vacuums are more convenient Ecovacs There’s something to be said for coming home to a house that’s already been vacuumed. The big appeal of robot vacuums is that they’re essentially an extra pair of hands — once you’ve gone through the mapping process and set up a schedule, they’ll clean your home without any additional input. If you’re constantly finding yourself forgetting to vacuum or tied up with other chores, adding a robot vacuum to your house is a great decision.
Cordless vacuums are more affordable Shark All the fancy tech packed into robot vacuums makes them shockingly expensive. Premium models often carry price tags well above $1,000, whereas you can snag a great cordless vacuum for less than $500. That’s a pretty massive price difference, so if budget is a big concern, cordless vacuums are a better pick. You can certainly find robot vacuums for less than $500, but they may not be as automated as you’d like (meaning you’ll still need to interact with them after each cleaning cycle).
Robot vacuums can also mop Ecovacs If you’re looking at the best robot vacuums , you’ll notice many of them double as mops. Not only will they automatically mop your hardwood floors, but they’ll retract their mops when traveling on carpet, allowing them to vacuum and mop in a single run. For homes with multiple types of flooring, this can save a huge amount of time.
Of course, it’s possible to find cordless vacuum/mops, but most of them are hard to recommend due to their less-than-stellar performance. Robot vacuum and mop combos, meanwhile, tend to perform both tasks reasonably well without sacrificing one for the other.
Is a robot vacuum better than a cordless vacuum? Ecovacs Robot vacuums and cordless vacuums are both excellent products, but neither is better than the other. While they’re both designed to keep your floors clean, that’s where the similarities end.
Cordless vacuums are ideal for homes that need a superior clean and for folks who don’t mind tackling the task manually. Robot vacuums are for homeowners content with an automated clean — even if it isn’t the best clean possible. Consider picking up a robot vacuum if you’re looking to free up time in your schedule and a cordless vacuum if you need a superior cleaning experience.
Oddly enough, many homes bundle the two products together to keep their floors as pristine as possible. For example, you can run your robot vacuum three times a week, then perform a manual cleaning with a cordless vacuum on the weekends. This makes it easy to eliminate pet fur and allergens lurking in your carpets, and is especially ideal for households with several children (or pets) roaming around the halls.
Editors' Recommendations Best robot mops of 2023 Arlo Essential XL 2nd Gen vs. Arlo Pro 4: Which is the better security camera? Which Amazon Echo should you buy? How often should you replace your robot vacuum? Matter adds support for fridges, air purifiers, robot vacuums, and more with massive 1.2 update Appliances Robot Vacuums Smart Home When it comes to building a smart home, few steps are as important as choosing your smart home platform. Pick the wrong one, and you could be left using dozens of separate smartphone apps to control all your gadgets.
Apple HomeKit and Amazon Alexa are two of the best options available today -- but which one is better for you? Here’s a comparison of the two platforms to help you decide.
What is a smart home platform? Smart Home Robot vacuums offer a hands-free way to keep your floors clean. But like all electronics, they sometimes run into issues that prevent them from working as intended. For robot vacuums, a common issue is when a device stops moving, rendering it all but useless. Figuring out what's causing your robot to stop moving isn't straightforward, as there are several different reasons this could be happening.
If you're trying to figure out how to fix a robot vacuum that stops moving, here's a quick rundown of everything you should check, along with general tips on how to solve the problem.
Check its wheels Smart Home The Ecovacs Deebot X2 Omni and iRobot Roomba Combo j9+ are two of the newest robot vacuums on the market. Offering not just the ability to vacuum and mop, but to also empty their dustbins, they’re two of the best robot vacuums money can buy. But which one is a better fit for your home? From vacuuming prowess and mopping skills to additional features and pricing, here’s a look at how the X2 Omni and Combo j9+ compare.
Pricing and availability Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
