Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Smart Home Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Cync Smart Thermostat review: Middle of the pack By Jon Bitner Close $120.00 Powerful Cync integration Easy-to-use smartphone app Programmable schedules Awkward design No support for Apple HomeKit GE makes a wide variety of smart home devices under the Cync umbrella. These offer heaps of functionality, thanks to a powerful smartphone app, and the Cync Smart Thermostat is one of the newest members of the family, bringing smart heating and cooling to your setup.
Traditional design, modern amenities Controlled by your smartphone Deep Cync integration (if you need it) Our take When compared to the competition, the Cync Smart Thermostat runs in the middle of the pack. It’s a bit pricey and doesn’t introduce any revolutionary features, but homes already outfitted with Cync products will find this smart thermostat to be the most exciting option on the market. If you’re not a Cync home, however, GE’s thermostat has stiff competition.
The best smart home devices for 2023 Is an Ecobee Smart Security subscription worth it? The best smart locks for 2023 Traditional design, modern amenities Image used with permission by copyright holder Most smart thermostats are built with a futuristic aesthetic, offering a large display with minimal on-screen controls that wouldn’t be out of place in a sci-fi film. That’s not the case with the Cync Smart Thermostat, which looks like a minor evolution of the traditional thermostat.
There are no physical buttons on the Cync Smart Thermostat, but instead, you’ll find five touch-activated buttons to adjust your current temperature settings, change fan modes, and so on. The display itself is cluttered with information, much of which could have been hidden behind the smartphone app or a separate menu.
The Cync Smart Thermostat offers all the smart functionality you’d expect at this price point.
It’s certainly better looking than “dumb” thermostats, but all those numbers and icons add up to a clunky display. If part of the reason you’re picking up a smart thermostat is for aesthetics, then you’ll likely be disappointed by the Cync Smart Thermostat. Other products, such as the Wyze Thermostat and ecobee3 lite , offer the same on-unit functionality but do so with an elegant design that’s simply more appealing than what Cync has to offer.
Despite its quirky appearance, the Cync Smart Thermostat is packing just about everything you’d want in a smart thermostat. You can enable Eco Mode to save energy, monitor your daily usage, and program schedules to automatically turn on throughout the day. It can also take voice commands through Google Assistant and Amazon Alexa — although Apple HomeKit integration is noticeably absent.
The optional sensors are a bit awkward, but they work well enough.
There’s also the option to install remote sensors throughout your home to eliminate hot and cold spots. The design is a bit awkward — they’re white orbs that can be tacked to a wall or thrown on a countertop — but the fact that they’re so small makes them easy to place in key locations around your home. Thanks to their diminutive size, they do look a bit goofy hanging on the wall, but the one that came with my unit did help produce more reliable results — although I’d hesitate to say it completely eradicated any “hot spots” throughout my home.
Controlled by your smartphone Image used with permission by copyright holder The Cync Smart Thermostat can be controlled directly from the unit, but most people will likely control the device through their smartphone. This is where you can easily set up schedules, check your usage, or remotely change the temperature without having to leave the couch.
After opening the app and selecting the device from the home screen, you’ll be greeted by an intuitive menu that displays the current temperature front and center, with the option to make quick adjustments just below that. The bottom of the screen houses a few different menus (including usage history and your schedules), and the settings button is located at the top right corner. Unlike the thermostat, the smartphone app is beautifully designed and easy to use.
If you need something powerful to help you save money and lower your bills, consider springing for something in a higher price bracket.
Most of your time will initially be spent setting up a schedule — which is remarkably easy. Once you’ve opened the menu, you can activate different setpoints for different times and different days. For example, you can have the air conditioning kick on when you leave work, getting your home nice and cool right before you get home. Or, if you like to sleep with it a bit cooler, you can schedule the A/C to turn on at night and kick off in the morning.
There’s no advanced learning functionality with the Cync Thermostat, but that’s not a common feature in this price range. If you need something powerful to help you save money and lower your bills, consider springing for something in a higher price bracket like the Nest Learning Thermostat.
Deep Cync integration (if you need it) Image used with permission by copyright holder Like everything in the Cync lineup, the Cync Smart Thermostat plays nicely with Routines and Scenes. This is GE’s way of getting multiple devices to interact with each other, letting you modify multiple settings on multiple devices at the press of a button.
If you’re using other Cync products, this is the main reason you’ll love the Cync Thermostat. Lighting, sensors, plugs, cameras, and ( finally ) your home temperature can all be manipulated from the Cync app. This makes it easy to activate or deactivate everything you need in one place. The smartphone app lets you quickly integrate the Cync Thermostat into your existing Routines and plug them into your schedule.
Of course, if you don’t have other Cync products scattered around your home, then all this versatility is lost.
Our take GE has created a great product for existing Cync users. It comes with all the smart thermostat features you’d expect for this price range, although the lack of HomeKit support and an awkward design might leave you wishing for more. Also keep in mind that you’ll need a C-wire for proper installation, although an adapter kit is included if your current setup is lacking.
How long will it last? GE offers a two-year limited warranty with all Cync Thermostats. With proper installation and care, there’s no reason it shouldn’t last much longer.
Is there a better alternative? The Cync Thermostat is a solid product, although it faces stiff competition from the Wyze Thermostat and Google Nest.
 Both offer similar features and price tags, but they’re a bit more stylish.
Should you buy it? If you’ve already bought into the Cync ecosystem, the Cync Thermostat is a no-brainer. Adding it to your Routines makes it easy to build an incredible smart home and quickly change multiple settings with the press of a button. If you’re not a Cync user, then you might be better off looking for alternatives that offer the same smart thermostat functionality at a lower price.
Editors' Recommendations The 11 best smart home products that support Matter Emporia resolves issue with Smart Plugs that spurred recall The best smart displays for 2023 Can smart plugs be used outside? Alexa vs. HomeKit: Which smart home platform is best? Product Reviews Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Smart home gadgets come in all shapes and sizes -- but some are undoubtedly weirder than others. Video doorbells, security cameras, and smart thermostats are common in 2023, but did you know there’s such a thing as a smart toilet? Or how about a smart litter box? Here’s a look at five of the weirdest smart home gadgets of 2023. Some of them are surprisingly useful -- and might make a worthy addition to the right household.
Numi 2.0 Smart Toilet Smart Home Ecobee, known for its lineup of popular smart thermostats, is officially jumping into the world of video doorbells with the aptly named Smart Doorbell Camera. Featuring an impressive 175-degree vertical field of view, premium materials, and the ability to sync with the rest of the Ecobee home security catalog, it's a well-equipped device that's taking aim at big names such as Ring and Arlo.
The big selling point of the Ecobee Smart Doorbell Camera is its 175-degree field of view, which allows it to capture packages left at your doorstep without cutting off your view of tall guests ringing your doorbell. It also boasts enhanced ability in lowlight situations and records in 1080p.
Smart Home Smart home technology has expanded dramatically over the past few years, and there’s no shortage of cool tech available to help you with your holiday decorations. Halloween is a particularly great one for smart home gadgets to help with, as you’ll find a variety of products available that create unique lighting and sounds -- as well as a few ways to tweak them to create a spooky atmosphere.
With so many products up for grabs, it can be difficult to figure out where to start. If you need some help sifting through all the options, here’s a look at which smart home devices are best for Halloween -- and how they can make your home the talk of the neighborhood.
Light it up Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
