Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Smart Home Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Dreo Pilot Max S review: a smart fan, not a smart price By Patrick Hearn Close $130.00 Easy setup and installation Smooth, responsive control Lacks functionality beyond the basics Unattractive design With summer in full swing in many parts of the country (and bringing heat waves with it), you need to stay cool — especially if you have second floors of your home that aren’t quite as optimized. That’s the struggle I face; my upstairs loft is a game room, perfect for whiling away the hours on muggy July days, but it stays easily five degrees warmer than the rest of the house.
Setup and installation Day-to-day use App functionality Design Our take Is there a better alternative? How long will it last? Should you buy it? Image used with permission by copyright holder As long as I use a fan, it’s perfectly comfortable — but the issue comes at night when I’m dragging myself to bed and hear the fan on upstairs. The last thing I want is to climb back up there to shut everything off. That’s where the Dreo Pilot Max S comes in. This is a connected smart fan that can be controlled via my phone, Amazon Alexa , or Google Assistant , and does a great job of hammering me with cooler air. It’s just a shame it can’t do anything about keeping my palms dry during some of the tougher moments of Tunic.
The best smart home devices for 2023 Is an Ecobee Smart Security subscription worth it? The best smart locks for 2023 Setup and installation There’s not much to installing a smart fan. The most finicky part of the entire process came in the form of attaching the base, and even that took less than 30 seconds. The entire Pilot Max S is assembled out of the box; even the stand only needed to be snapped together and secured at the bottom. The hardest part was finding the included remote, which didn’t have its own packaging and ended up at the bottom of the box among a pile of packing supplies.
Setting up the Dreo Pilot Max S was as simple as pressing the Wi-Fi button atop the fan for three seconds until it became discoverable within the app. After that, I just needed to tap a few buttons to carry through the rest of the process. Straightforward and simple, just as smart home device setup should be.
Day-to-day use You can control the fan through onboard touch capacitive buttons, through the use of an included remote, through your phone, or with voice controls. That’s more than enough options for the average person; in most cases, I didn’t even bother with my phone. I just sat down at my desk and reached for the remote.
Alexa came in handy for turning off the fan at night when I didn’t want to dig through a smartphone app.
The rest of the time? Honestly, once I set the fan speed I liked, I rarely touched the settings. I don’t use oscillation since I sit in one spot, and because the fan is upstairs, the sleep setting wasn’t necessary.
Image used with permission by copyright holder One of the main selling points of the Dreo Pilot Max S is that it’s quiet. According to some of the branding and marketing material, it’s “undetectable.” That’s not quite true. At lower speeds, it’s so quiet you won’t notice it — at all. You won’t even feel the air on your skin. Of the 12 different fan speed options, I found 9 to be the ideal level. At level 12, you’ll definitely notice it. The fan sounds like a jet preparing to taxi down the runway.
App functionality The app forgoes any aesthetic appeal in favor of function. In most circumstances, I’d agree with that design choice — but when there are so few functions, it might not be a bad idea to make it a little more appealing to look at.
The app displays the name of the fan, the indoor temperature where the fan is located, and then gives you access to four different control settings.
Normal is what you expect: a steady, straightforward stream of air.
Natural adjusts the fan to seem more like an outdoor breeze, but the effect falls a little flat. When I first used it, I thought the fan was malfunctioning.
Sleep quiets the fan down so it doesn’t keep you awake at night.
Auto adjusts the speed of the fan based on the temperature of the room. If you want to keep a space within a set range, Auto is the best option for that.
On the right of the app is an adjustable slider for changing fan speed. Below that, you’ll find a quick-tap button for turning oscillation on or off, as well as for setting a timer.
Swiping up from the bottom of the app provides access to a user manual, a FAQ page, and options to mute the chimes of the fan and manipulate auto-brightness settings. This is also where you connect your voice assistants if desired.
Like I said: not a lot there, but it’s enough to control the fan.
Design It looks more like where you’d place a well-aimed shot to destroy a Death Star’s core reactor.
Though the Dreo Pilot Max S does a lot of things right, its design is not one of them. It’s not exactly an ugly device, but it does look very industrial. Like the app, it seems little thought was put into the appearance of the device in lieu of functionality. While that’s a better decision than focusing too much on looks and not enough on functionality, this is something people are going to look at every day in their homes. It should hold some aesthetic appeal, but it looks more like where you’d place a well-aimed shot to destroy a Death Star’s core reactor.
Our take There’s not much to say about the Dreo Pilot Max S. It’s a fan with smart functionality, and that’s pretty cool. It does what it’s meant to do and keeps an area cool, though I can’t say I noticed much of an overall decrease in the room temperature while it ran. Is it worth the $130 to buy the fan versus investing in a normal fan and hooking it up to a $25 smart plug? I’m not sure — but I can say I don’t think I would have spent that much on it had it not sent to me for review. This feels like a smart device that needs to be about half that cost. At $75, I can see it being a solid purchase.
Is there a better alternative? Dreo has several other alternative models at lower price points that do nearly the same thing. The element that prices this one higher is the Sleep mode, and that doesn’t strike me as enough to warrant the increased cost. After all, who minds a little white noise while they sleep? If you’re looking for a high-end smart fan that doubles as an air purifier, consider checking out the LG PuriCare AeroTower.
 Though it costs a whopping $600, it’s packed with functionality. Plus, it looks nice.
How long will it last? The fan is well-built. I suspect it will last quite a while, even with the moving parts. If something does go wrong, Dreo offers a 12-month warranty, as well as a 100-day money-back guarantee.
Should you buy it? Not this particular model. A smart fan is a great investment but look into one of Dreo’s other models rather than spending $130 on this. Once the Pilot Max S comes down in price a bit, it will be a great purchase — till then, the price point just feels a little steep.
Editors' Recommendations The 11 best smart home products that support Matter Emporia resolves issue with Smart Plugs that spurred recall The best smart displays for 2023 Can smart plugs be used outside? Alexa vs. HomeKit: Which smart home platform is best? Product Reviews Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Smart home gadgets come in all shapes and sizes -- but some are undoubtedly weirder than others. Video doorbells, security cameras, and smart thermostats are common in 2023, but did you know there’s such a thing as a smart toilet? Or how about a smart litter box? Here’s a look at five of the weirdest smart home gadgets of 2023. Some of them are surprisingly useful -- and might make a worthy addition to the right household.
Numi 2.0 Smart Toilet Smart Home Ecobee, known for its lineup of popular smart thermostats, is officially jumping into the world of video doorbells with the aptly named Smart Doorbell Camera. Featuring an impressive 175-degree vertical field of view, premium materials, and the ability to sync with the rest of the Ecobee home security catalog, it's a well-equipped device that's taking aim at big names such as Ring and Arlo.
The big selling point of the Ecobee Smart Doorbell Camera is its 175-degree field of view, which allows it to capture packages left at your doorstep without cutting off your view of tall guests ringing your doorbell. It also boasts enhanced ability in lowlight situations and records in 1080p.
Smart Home Smart home technology has expanded dramatically over the past few years, and there’s no shortage of cool tech available to help you with your holiday decorations. Halloween is a particularly great one for smart home gadgets to help with, as you’ll find a variety of products available that create unique lighting and sounds -- as well as a few ways to tweak them to create a spooky atmosphere.
With so many products up for grabs, it can be difficult to figure out where to start. If you need some help sifting through all the options, here’s a look at which smart home devices are best for Halloween -- and how they can make your home the talk of the neighborhood.
Light it up Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
