Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Smart Home Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Ecovacs Deebot T10 Omni review: impressive cleaning, almost automated By Jon Bitner Close $1,200.00 Versatile docking station Incredible vacuuming performance Easy setup Must remove mopheads to clean carpet The Ecovacs Deebot T10 Omni gets a lot of things right. It offers a sleek design, incredible vacuuming performance, and the option to add mopheads to tackle hardwood floors or tiles. It’s all powered by a versatile app that lets you schedule cleanings or perform custom tasks. There’s little you’ll want to do that can’t be handled by the Deebot T10 Omni.
Powered by a powerful app Vacuuming is second to none Not quite hands-free Verdict However, this $1.200 product isn’t fully automated — which means you’ll be getting your hands dirty more often than you’d expect as an owner of a high-end robot vacuum. For some, that might not be a big deal. And considering the Deebot T10 Omni cleans better than the vast majority of robot vacuums on the market, you might be willing to look past that omission and bring it into your home.
Cordless vs. robot vacuums: which one should you buy? How to fix a robot vacuum that stops moving Ecovacs Deebot X2 Omni boasts a new square design and improved vacuuming skills It’s not perfect, but the Ecovacs Deebot T10 Omni is a reliable robot vacuum that deserves a closer look.
Powered by a powerful app Ecovacs The Ecovacs Deebot T10 Omni is largely powered by its smartphone app. This is where you’ll be able to initially map your home, set a schedule for cleanings, and adjust various settings that impact how your Deebot cleans (including vacuum power and whether you’d like to enable a useful “corner-cleaning” mode).
You can also use a built-in voice assistant, YIKO, to give your robot a variety of voice commands. This works surprisingly well, although after setting up a cleaning schedule with the smartphone app, there’s really no need to use any voice controls.
Some homeowners might like the added convenience of using voice commands to get a quick, unscheduled cleaning in — but it largely went unused during my time with the Deebot T10 Omni.
The smartphone app is just as easy to use as voice commands — and it offers heaps of additional functionality, turning Deebot’s voice commands into a gimmicky feature that didn’t bring much to the table. It’s a nice addition, but most users wouldn’t notice if it was removed.
Vacuuming is second to none Image used with permission by copyright holder A robot vacuum is only as good as its cleaning prowess, and the Deebot T10 Omni doesn’t disappoint. With a staggering 5,000 Pa of suction, the Deebot T10 Omni does an incredible job of siphoning out every bit of debris stuck in your carpet. It also leaves behind a satisfying pattern as it navigates across your floors, which both looks great and serves as a visual confirmation that it hit every inch of your home.
Navigation skills are top of the line, as there wasn’t a single time I had to save the robot vacuum from getting stuck on an obstacle.
Four different power levels are available while vacuuming (Quiet, Standard, Max, and Max+), and you can even have the robot clean either once or twice if you have extra dirty floors. You’ll also appreciate the Corner Deep Cleaning option, which can be enabled to perform extra cleanings in the nooks and crannies of your home to suck up anything that’s been pushed into seemingly unreachable places. It works surprisingly well.
Best of all, the Ecovacs Deebot T10 Omni docking station includes a dustbin reservoir that can hold up to 75 days’ worth of debris. That’s more than most other docks available today, making it a great option for hands-free vacuuming that will let you go months without having to swap out its replaceable bag.
Navigation skills are also top of the line, as there wasn’t a single time I had to save the robot vacuum from getting stuck on an obstacle or fear that it would lose track of its location. So if you have children or animals that like to leave toys around the house, you don’t have to worry about anything derailing your cleaning plans.
Not quite hands-free Image used with permission by copyright holder The Deebot T10 Omni mops just as well as it vacuums. With three adjustable water levels and two massive spinning mopheads, this little robot does an impressive job of cleaning up spills and removing old stains. When it’s docked, you’ll also benefit from a system that both rinses and dries the mopheads to ensure you don’t get that pesky smell of mildew.
However, mopping and vacuuming on a single run isn’t as automated as you’d expect.
To initiate mopping mode, you’ll need to manually install the mopheads. Then, if you want the Deebot T10 Omni to roll onto carpet and vacuum, you’ll need to flip it over and uninstall them. This isn’t a big issue if your home largely consists of hardwood or tile, but since my home is a mixture of the two, it’s become a bit of a hassle.
If you’re picking this product up, consider using it as just a mop or just a vacuum, as both work incredibly well on their own.
It’s also worth noting that if you place the Deebot docking station on carpet, you’ll run into even more trouble while mopping, as it won’t be able to return to the dock on its own (since it avoids carpet when its mopheads are installed). That means you’ll have to pick it up and manually place it near the dock to finish the process.
This won’t be an issue for all homes, but it’s definitely a sticking point if your floors are a mishmash of carpet, tile, and hardwood. And when you’re spending over $1,000 on a robot vacuum, the last thing you want to do is babysit it.
Verdict Image used with permission by copyright holder The Ecovacs Deebot T10 Omni is a powerful robot vacuum that’s not quite as automated as you’d expect. There’s no doubt it excels at both vacuuming and mopping, but trying to carry out the two tasks simultaneously is an effort in futility. If you’re picking this product up, consider using it as just a mop or just a vacuum, as both work incredibly well on their own.
If you want something in a similar price range that can mop and vacuum without manual intervention, then you might want to consider the Roomba Combo j7+.
 It costs $1,100 and features a mophead that lifts out of the way when traveling on carpet. It doesn’t, however, offer the same mop-cleaning features as the Deebot T10 Omni.
The Ecovacs Deebot T10 Omni is a solid robot vacuum, but it’s not quite as automated as its competitors.
Then there’s the Roborock S8 Pro Ultra , which mops, vacuums, rinses, and dries mopheads without any manual intervention. It’s a bit more expensive at $1,600 than the Deebot T10 Omni — but if you’re looking to spend over $1,000 on a vacuum, a few extra bucks shouldn’t be a deal breaker.
At the end of the day, the Ecovacs Deebot T10 Omni is a solid robot vacuum. It’s frustrating that it’s not quite as hands-free as some competitors, but its incredible cleaning skills make it a strong contender for certain homes. And if you can snag it while it’s on sale, it’s an even more enticing option.
Editors' Recommendations The SwitchBot Mini Robot Vacuum K10+ is designed for cramped rooms and tight spaces How often should you replace your robot vacuum? Ecovacs Deebot X2 Omni vs. iRobot Roomba Combo j9+: Which premium robot vacuum is best? iRobot Roomba Combo j9+ robot vacuum and mop is perfect for high-pile carpet SwitchBot S10 robot vacuum connects to your plumbing for fully automated mopping Appliances Product Reviews Robot Vacuums Smart Home Reviews Smart Home The Roomba Combo j7+ is getting two new family members, as iRobot is expanding its lineup of robot vacuum and mops with the Combo j5+ and Combo i5+. Both devices are now up for preorder, with an expected launch date of September 3.
Unlike the expensive Combo j7+, the Combo j5+ and Combo i5+ are lower-priced options that offer many of the same features. The j5+ is a particular standout, allowing you to swap between vacuuming and mopping to just vacuuming by switching out its bin. Its charging dock can hold up to 60 days of debris before it needs to be manually emptied, and the robot itself boasts AI that can identify cords, shoes, and other hazards scattered throughout your home.
Smart Home The Dyson 360 Vis Nav is one of the most expensive robot vacuums available, and it comes with a few impressive features you won’t find on other models with lower price tags. However, the Ecovacs Deebot T20 Omni has established itself as one of the best robot vacuums, thanks to its ability to vacuum, mop, empty its dustbin, and clean itself after each session.
So which is best for your smart home? Here’s a look at the Dyson 360 Vis Nav 360 and Ecovacs Deebot T20 Omni to help you decide.
Pricing and availability Smart Home Owning a gadget that can automatically vacuum and mop your home is arguably one of the best ways to cut down on your weekly list of chores. Gone are the days of breaking out your mop and constantly emptying your dustbin – with robot vacuum-mop combos, much of your cleaning routine can be automated.
These useful little drones might all share a similar, circular design, but their cleaning prowess can vary greatly. And unless you know what you’re looking for, it’s difficult to figure out which one is better suited for your home than others. Thankfully, there are plenty of great options available in today's market. Here’s a look at the best robot vacuum mop combos of 2023, including picks for all budgets and home-cleaning needs.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
