Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Smart Home Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Ecovacs Deebot X2 Omni review: hitting the ceiling By Jon Bitner Close $1,500.00 Impressive suction and vacuuming Retractable mopping pads Self-emptying and cleaning Sleek, square design Minimal improvements over T20 Omni Ecovacs has been churning out robot vacuums at a breakneck pace. The company released three different products in the past nine months, starting with the T10 Omni in March, rolling into the upgraded T20 Omni in June, and now the top-of-the-line X2 Omni in October. And, as you’d expect, it’s the most compelling robot vacuum and mop combo in the Ecovacs lineup.
Ready to rock, right out of the box What more could you ask for? Hitting the ceiling Featuring a self-emptying dustbin, a dock that automatically cleans (and dries) its mops, and a gorgeous new square design, the Ecovacs Deebot X2 Omni is among the best robot vacuums money can buy. However, it seems as if Ecovacs is running out of ways to innovate – if you already own the T10 or T20 Omni, there isn’t a whole lot of new functionality to get excited about with the X2 Omni. But if you’re a newcomer to the world of robot vacuums and want the best product money can buy, you’ll find it to be the complete package.
Ecovacs Deebot X2 Omni boasts a new square design and improved vacuuming skills Dyson 360 Vis Nav vs. Ecovacs Deebot T20 Omni: which is the better robot vacuum? Eufy’s new X9 Pro Robovac offers automated mopping and vacuuming for less than $1,000 Ready to rock, right out of the box Jon Bitner / Digital Trends Despite all its advanced features, the Ecovacs Deebot X2 Omni is a plug-and-play device. After taking the dock and robot out of their packaging, setup is as simple as plugging in the dock, snapping the edge-sweeping brush into position, turning on the robot vacuum, then syncing it to your smartphone app. From start to finish, it took about 15 minutes to get the X2 Omni mapping my floors.
Once the mapping process is complete, you’re able to dive into your settings and make any necessary adjustments to the layout. This includes creating restricted areas for mopping and vacuuming, reworking the position of walls and other boundaries, and editing which locations have carpets.
If you don’t want to use the X2 Omni as a mop, you can easily uninstall the two mopping plates by pulling them off. But beyond that, the setup process is about as streamlined as it gets.
What more could you ask for? Jon Bitner / Digital Trends Ecovacs left no stone unturned when developing the X2 Omni. The expensive ($1,500) device is built to offer a hands-free way to keep your floors clean — and it largely succeeds, thanks to its bevy of features.
Its vacuuming skills are at the top of its class, thanks to 8,000 Pa of suction. Its two rotating mop plates do a great job of tackling spills and stains in the kitchen. Its compact, square design allowed it to clean edges and sneak into crevices throughout my home that were missed by other robot vacuums.
Other useful features include a powertrain that can climb thresholds up to 22mm tall, the ability to raise its mops 15mm when traveling on carpet, and a docking station that uses hot water to clean its mops before using hot air to dry them. Toss in an onboard AI system that avoids obstacles and improves its performance the more it cleans your home, and the X2 Omni becomes one of the most feature-complete robot vacuums on the market.
All these features make it possible to go weeks without interacting with the robot vacuum. You’ll only need to fill the clean water reservoir and empty the dirty water reservoir every so often (this varies widely based on the size of your home) and empty its dustbin every few months (it’ll last up to 90 days, but homes with pets should expect to change it much earlier).
Hitting the ceiling Ecovacs There’s no denying the X2 Omni is among the best robot vacuums, but it also seems as if Ecovacs is finally running out of ways to innovate. The T20 Omni arrived earlier this summer, and now just a few months later we’re getting the X2 Omni — and it feels eerily similar. It obviously looks different, thanks to its square design and compact docking station — but much of its functionality can already be found elsewhere in the Ecovacs lineup.
Hot water mop cleaning isn’t new. Hot air drying isn’t new. Its robust smartphone app isn’t new. Truth be told, there’s not a whole lot of new features on the X2 Omni. Instead, Ecovacs made a few minor improvements to existing content (such as a mop that lifts 15mm instead of 9mm, a dustbin that holds 90 days instead of 75 days, and 8,000Pa of suction instead of 6,000), gave the robot a shiny new look, and launched it to the masses.
I also found that, despite looking great, the faceplate had a tendency to shift when the robot bumped into furniture at certain angles. This typically isn’t an issue, but I did have to rescue the device once as the faceplate had shifted so much that it was preventing the front bumper from working properly (the only instance I’ve seen of Ecovacs putting form over function).
That’s not to say this isn’t a great product — the Ecovacs Deebot X2 Omni is easy to recommend to anyone seeking an autonomous floor cleaning experience. For folks seeking their first robot vacuum or looking to upgrade from an older model, there’s a lot to love about this high-end product.
But if you already own a robot vacuum and mop combo, there’s little here that’ll excite you.
Editors' Recommendations Ecovacs Deebot X2 Omni vs. iRobot Roomba Combo j9+: Which premium robot vacuum is best? iRobot expands Roomba 2-in-1 lineup with Combo j5+ and Combo i5+ Ecovacs Deebot T10 Omni vs. Ecovacs Deebot T20 Omni: Is the T20 worth it? Ecovacs Deebot T20 Omni brings hot water washin, mop-lifting skills to Deebot lineup Roborock S8 Pro Ultra vs. Ecovacs Deebot T10 Omni: which is the better robot vacuum? Appliances Product Reviews Robot Vacuums Smart Home Reviews Vacuum Reviews Smart Home Ecovacs is one of the biggest names in the world of robot vacuums, and it’s looking to continue that dominance in 2023 with three new product launches. Ranging in price from $650 to $1,300, the trio of DEEBOT robot vacuums is designed for smart homes of different sizes and different needs, ensuring there’s something for every family.
The Deebot T10 Omni is the most compelling of the three -- and it’s also the most expensive at $1,300. It brings a lot to the table, however, as it features the new Ozmo Turbo 2.0 mopping system with spinning brushes, the ability to take voice commands without a third-party product, and a docking station with auto-cleaning and auto-emptying capabilities. It’s designed for homes of all sizes, but it should be the most enticing for large families that see plenty of foot traffic (or paw traffic) through their house.
Smart Home This content was produced in partnership with ECOVACS.
At this point, there's almost nothing A.I. can't do, at least in the digital realm. But when it comes to the physical world, and more practical applications, there are a few limitations remaining before the merger between modern robotics and advanced intelligence can really take off. We're close, but not quite there yet, which is unfortunate because it could profoundly change our lives. Imagine an A.I. system cleaning your whole home for you, for example. The floors, the walls, the drapes, your counters, you name it. Who wouldn't want that? Cleaning is a necessary yet tedious task that just gets worse the more you neglect it. ECOVACS is putting us one step closer to that reality with its latest one-for-all cleaning system, the DEEBOT T10 OMNI.
DEEBOT T10 OMNI comes with an all-in-one station that auto-empties the dustbin between runs, auto-cleans, and auto hot-air dries the mop, and offers a host of additional features to keep your hands almost completely free. The intuitive voice controls -- enabled by A.I. -- means you can issue commands simply and conveniently, or you can use the app. You can even use the app in combination with the device's Starlight front-facing camera to remotely monitor your home in real time, almost like a roamable security camera. You can see if Fido is being a good boy, or if he's chasing the vacuum again. Most importantly, A.I. is applied to a number of the system's functions to genuinely improve its power and capabilities. The T10 Omni leverages A.I., for instance, to prevent the spread of granular particles while it's vacuuming, so it's not just haphazardly spreading around a mess. It's all very impressive, but to understand just how impressive we should really do a deeper dive into what the DEEBOT T10 OMNI has to offer.
Buy Now Truly Optimized with A.I.
Smart Home Ecovacs, a prominent name in the world of home service robots, is expanding its lineup with a robotic lawnmower and commercial floor cleaning robot. The two products are expected to arrive in China next year, although pricing and North American release dates are yet to be determined.
The robot lawnmower, Goat G1, is arguably the more interesting of the two, as it’s designed for both personal and commercial use. This will be the first robotic lawnmower from Ecovacs, although it builds on existing technology to offer a lawn-mowing experience that works much like a robot vacuum. After mapping out your yard with an accompanying smartphone app, the Goat G1 will go about cutting grass with centimeter-level precision, thanks to a 360-degree camera and the ability to scan 25 frames per second to avoid moving obstacles.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
