Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Smart Home Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Emporia Smart Plug review: everything you’d want from a smart plug By Jon Bitner Close $35.00 Affordable Highly detailed energy reports Easy-to-use smartphone app No Apple HomeKit support Smart plugs might not be the most exciting products to add to your connected smart home, but they bring surprising versatility to your setup. That’s especially true of the Emporia Smart Plug, which not only lets you remotely control anything plugged into it, but also gives you a robust suite of energy monitoring tools.
Slick design, easy installation Unprecedented energy tracking Remarkably easy to use Too powerful to pass up The lack of Apple HomeKit support is a bit of a letdown, but if you’re running a Google or Amazon-powered smart home, there’s little to complain about with Emporia’s offering. Sleek, easy to install, and with a powerful (yet intuitive) smartphone app, Emporia gives you everything you’d want from a smart plug.
The 11 best smart home products that support Matter Emporia resolves issue with Smart Plugs that spurred recall Can smart plugs be used outside? Slick design, easy installation Jon Bitner / Digital Trends Emporia didn’t cut any corners when designing this affordable product. Even though you can pick up a four-pack for just $35 ($8.75/unit), they’re remarkably sleek for such a budget-minded gadget. The oblong shape looks great plugged into an outlet, and it’s small enough that it doesn’t intrude into the space of its neighboring socket. It is a bit long — extending slightly beyond the edges of my electrical outlet’s faceplate — but that’s a minor complaint for an otherwise good-looking smart plug.
Considering this clocks in at one of the lowest prices in the class, it’s great to see that Emporia didn’t gut features.
Once you’ve plugged the device into an outlet, getting it connected to your smart home is simple. Just download the associated smartphone app, connect to your Wi-Fi, and you’re ready to set schedules, remotely control devices, and monitor your energy use, all from your phone.
Like most smart plugs, the Emporia Smart Plug doesn’t offer much functionality directly on the unit. You’ll get a small, multi-color LED indicator light to let you know whether it’s powered on or off, and a power button on the side that lets you manually control the unit without loading up your phone. The on-unit functionality is completely standard for smart plugs, but considering this clocks in at one of the lowest prices in the class, it’s great to see that Emporia didn’t gut features to reach that price tag.
Unprecedented energy tracking Image used with permission by copyright holder Gaining remote control of non-smart appliances is the main reason you’ll want to pick up a smart plug. Setting on/off schedules, remotely powering devices, and gaining voice controls are all things you’ll benefit from with the Emporia Smart Plug, but it’s the energy tracking capabilities that truly set this apart from other products in the price range.
Eve Energy , for example, offers a similar lineup of energy monitoring features, but you’ll drop $70 on a two-pack — putting them in an entirely different price bracket.
If you’re familiar with Emporia, those energy monitoring chops shouldn’t come as a surprise. Beyond selling smart plugs, the company sells home batteries, EV chargers, and (most importantly) an energy monitoring device that connects directly to your electrical panel. That expertise has spilled over into the Emporia Smart Plug, giving the tiny gadget a surprisingly robust suite of energy monitoring capabilities.
The smartphone app can help you lower your energy usage by giving suggestions or automatically adjusting settings.
Using the Emporia smartphone app, you can head over to a section simply called Graphs.
 It’s here that you’ll be able to see how much energy each outlet is pulling per day, along with a detailed chart of usage for every second your device is online. There’s even an option to see your overall usage for the year — giving you a holistic view of your energy usage.
But the energy-related features don’t end there. Emporia offers another tab in its smartphone app ( Management ) that can help you lower your energy usage by giving suggestions or automatically adjusting consumption as your rate changes during the day. In other words, some users might simply pick these up to help track their energy usage, with the remote control functions coming as an added bonus.
Remarkably easy to use Jon Bitner / Digital Trends Regardless of why you pick up the Emporia Smart Plug, its smartphone app makes it easy to maximize its potential. Every connected smart plug is shown on the home screen of your app, letting you dive in and set schedules, enable a timer to turn off the device after a specified amount of time, or reset its data if you’re plugging in a new device to your smart plug.
If you’re monitoring energy use, things are even easier — just click on your smart plug of interest, and you’ll immediately be greeted with its power usage chart. If you want to do some elaborate data crunching, Emporia even lets you export all your values to a CSV file.
Both voice commands and a built-in power button give you ways to use the smart plug without your smartphone.
The ability to use voice commands when synced with your Google or Amazon ecosystem is another plus, giving you hands-free control of your lights, coffee maker, or other gadgets. So, if you’d rather not fiddle with a smartphone, you can use either voice commands or the built-in button on each smart plug to access some of its most basic functionality.
Too powerful to pass up Emporia really left no stone unturned when it comes to designing this smart plug. The only downside is the lack of Apple HomeKit support. But aside from that omission, there’s little missing from this package. It can handle a continuous load of 10A (with a 15A Max Peak Load for up to an hour a day), comes with a one-year warranty, offers robust energy monitoring tools, and gives you plenty of ways to schedule and power your gadgets remotely.
If you need Apple HomeKit, consider picking up the ConnectSense Smart Outlet 2.
 It’s much larger than the Emporia Smart Plug, but offers many of the same features as Emporia. You’ll also want to check our list of the best smart plugs of 2022.
But beyond that, most people will be well-served adding the Emporia Smart Plug to their repertoire.
Editors' Recommendations The best outdoor smart plugs for 2023 The best smart home devices for 2023 The best smart locks for 2023 Matter adds support for fridges, air purifiers, robot vacuums, and more with massive 1.2 update Alexa vs. HomeKit: Which smart home platform is best? Amazon Google Google Nest Product Reviews Smart Home Reviews Smart Home As far as smart home gadgets are concerned, smart blinds are pretty niche. Unlike smart displays, video doorbells, or smart locks, it’s not often that you hear about smart blinds (or see them installed in a friend’s home). However, these unique products offer the same luxuries as their smart siblings -- and some might even be able to save you money.
But are smart blinds worth it? Or is the upfront investment too steep in relation to the conveniences they offer? Here’s a closer look at these products to help you decide if you should upgrade your traditional blinds to something with a bit more brains.
What are smart blinds? Smart Home Smart home devices like Google Nest Audio and Google Nest Hub continue to grow more popular every year -- but so do privacy concerns about what data they’re collecting and what’s being shared with their manufacturers. It’s highly unlikely these products are tracking everything you say, but users will be glad to hear there are several settings you can adjust to ensure your information is secure. Beyond security, Google Assistant has plenty of other settings for you to tinker around with, allowing you to optimize its performance for your home.
From adjusting its listening sensitivity to offering up vegan recipes, here’s a look at a few Google Assistant settings you should adjust. Most of these changes take no more than a few seconds to complete but could radically improve your smart home experience.
Smart Home Smart home devices have come a long way over the past few years. Walk into any home improvement store or supermarket, and you’re bound to find a wide variety of smart lights, smart locks, smart thermostats, and an assortment of other “smart” gadgets. But one often overlooked category is smart plugs – tiny devices that plug into your electrical outlet and give your “dumb” electronics the versatility of a modern smart home device.
Beyond giving you remote control of your outlets, many smart plugs allow you to set timers or monitor your electricity usage. This makes them surprisingly versatile while still carrying an affordable price tag. Plenty of big names (like Amazon and Wyze) are producing smart plugs, but they’re far from your only option. Here’s a closer look at the best smart plugs of 2023.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
