Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Smart Home Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Gardyn review: easy gardening for a high price By Patrick Hearn Close $849.00 Grows 30 plants at one time Fully automated watering and light exposure Little day-to-day maintenance Tons of plant options Expensive Most additional features are locked behind a paywall Do you like to cook? Even if you don’t fancy yourself much of a chef (and yes, I know that term is reserved for professionals — just go with it), there’s something about being able to spice up a premade jar of marinara sauce or hit just that perfect spice combination to take a dinner from run-of-the-mill to extraordinary. Who says you can’t eat great on a Thursday night? Buckle up for the setup The app needs work Membership costs Plant options Day-to-day use Community Is the Gardyn the future of gardening? Fresh ingredients are the key to great dinners. As I’ve said before, I’m a fan of smart gardens.
 If you live somewhere without a lot of space or you just don’t think you can keep plants alive, smart gardens take the guesswork out of it for you. When Gardyn reached out and offered me the chance to test out their Gardyn 2.0, I jumped at the chance. This thing is massive — it can hold 30 plants and basically does all the work for me. All I have to do is sit back and reap the rewards.
How do robot lawn mowers work? Best indoor smart gardens The top 6 outdoor smart speakers for your garden Well, mostly.
Buckle up for the setup The Gardyn took me over an hour to assemble. There’s a lot of different parts that all need to fit together, and several that don’t fit quite as nicely as they should. I had to take care with the LED grow lights, since they felt fragile and needed to be supported while I attached them. I suggest at least two people put this together; trying to do it by myself was a bit of a bear.
Image used with permission by copyright holder It also takes a bit of time to position your plants. The Gardyn holds 30 different pods, which is a ridiculous amount. While there’s no real requirement to placing them, I would take time to group the plants up according to type. Also think about the ultimate size of the plant once it has finished growing, as well as how much sunlight it needs.
I found the top row of the Gardyn grows markedly slower than the rest, largely because it just doesn’t get the same amount of LED exposure. If you’re growing anything that doesn’t need as much light, put it on top.
The app needs work It’s rare that I loathe an app as much as I do this one. While the Gardyn itself is a fantastic device, the app is held together with duct tape and prayer, and not enough of either. For the most part, it works, but there are several small issues that can be infuriating.
Take scheduling the lights, for example. By default, there are three separate time periods when the lights turn on and off. I prefer to let it run during the night when I’m out of the room, rather than during the day when it casts a glare on any nearby screen. It’s easy enough to set up — at least at first glance — you just select the time period.
But be careful not to overlap any of them, because if you do, the app will crash on you. No warning message or error, just a full-blown shutdown to the home screen of your phone. The easiest way around this is to just completely clear all three of the preset schedules (by selecting them and tapping the trash icon at the bottom) and then re-adding your own times.
The water schedule doesn’t work the same way, and doesn’t seem to have the same issue. I recently increased the water rate to six times per day from the default three (every four hours, five minutes at a time).
One thing that’s worth noting is that the app has its own built-in smart assistant named Kelby, which will alert you when it’s time to refresh the water in the tank, add plant food, and much more. However, most of Kelby’s features are locked behind the staggeringly-expensive monthly subscription.
Membership costs You can sign up for $39 per month and cancel at any time. You can also sign up for a one-year membership for a total of $408, or a two-year membership for a total of $686. Considering the Gardyn alone costs $849 (or $999 for the Gardyn 3.0), the cost feels just a bit steep.
There are quite a few things included in the membership that help offset the cost. Users receive 10 yCybes each month with free shipping, and save up to 60% off any future yCube purchases. That’s nothing to sneeze at; a single yCube is around $5, so that’s essentially $50 per month in value just from the cubes alone.
Although the membership is expensive, it more than pays for itself on a monthly basis.
There’s a live view feature in the app, too. You can check in on your plants through the two built-in cameras, but their resolution is too low to make out many details. There’s also a time lapse feature that’s currently in beta, but again, it’s locked behind a paywall.
The downside to accumulating all those yCubes is that your plants should last for longer than a month at a time. You’ll build up a backlog of cubes. The main value of the membership lies in Kelby; the AI is impressive, especially in terms of plant care. The assistant can even identify specific plants based on a series of color-coded dots on each cube and provide feedback on your Gardyn.
Still, though it’s not an inexpensive membership, it includes enough perks to more than pay for itself, especially if you’re a die-hard user.
Plant options One way Gardyn sets itself apart from the competition is in the sheer number of plants it offers. I’ve seen optional yCubes containing plant varieties I’ve never heard of before. A few of the options include: Breen Chervil Fairytail eggplant Flashy trout back Hon tsai tai Tokyo Bbekana The biggest appeal is that the Gardyn can grow plants that are much larger than what other smart gardens offer. You can grow tomatoes, peppers, and more — all of which typically require a substantial amount of dirt, However, the Gardyn manages to produce a substantial yield despite its hydroponic nature.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The growth is slow. I’ve had my Gardyn set up for a bit over six weeks now, and none of the plants are ready for harvest. They’re still steadily growing, but not at the rate I expected. When I grow something in my AeroGarden , it feels a bit like magic in terms of how quickly the plants spring up.
Those same varieties grow at much slower speeds in the Gardyn, but I hope that means they will last for much longer. I’m starting to get a bit impatient, though; the vibrant colors of some of the plants make me want to try them out, but there’s just not enough for a decent harvest.
Day-to-day use The Gardyn has become a conversation point in my home. When guests come over, they’re always surprised by the veritable wall of plants that greets them in the entry hall. There’s little that I have to do once it’s set up; it’s mostly automatic. That’s a huge benefit, especially as we head into one of the busier times of year.
Thanks to its massive water tank, refills are infrequent, though you still need to add plant food.
The reservoir is massive. It can hold multiple gallons of water at a time, which means the number of refills required is minimal. Just be prepared to set aside about five to ten minutes to refill the tank. If you have a hose that can reach it, great. In my case, I’m filling up a pitcher of water and pouring it into the reservoir when it’s time for a refill. It’s time-consuming, but easy to do.
The only manual work required is adding in plant food. That’s done on a semiregular basis, but takes less than five minutes to do.
Community One of the most notable things about Gardyn is its community. There are a lot of enthusiastic fans of the system who have found workarounds to almost every major issue with the platform. For example, there are dozens of 3D-printer recipes for yCube configurations, as well as instructions on how to install rockwool and use your own seeds to grow anything you can imagine.
If you want to grow a plant that Gardyn doesn’t offer, that’s the way to do it. If you aren’t getting the results you expect, just check with the community. Almost every type of plant has been tested and its growth pattern and settings optimized.
Is the Gardyn the future of gardening? The Gardyn is by far the most advanced smart garden I’ve ever gotten my hands on. It’s an impressive bit of smart tech, but it leaves a lot of room for improvement. I was sent the Gardyn 2.0, but the Gardyn 3.0 was released shortly after I set mine up, and it seems to have improved on several features.
The Gardyn is almost everything I want, but the good news is that the major problems are mostly software-based.
I have high hopes for the platform. Though my plants aren’t growing at the rate I expected, it’s a long-term project that I look forward to tweaking and experimenting until I get the desired results. And when I do? That’s going to be one delicious salad.
Editors' Recommendations iRobot Roomba Combo j9+ robot vacuum and mop is perfect for high-pile carpet Blink Wired Floodlight Camera offers heaps of features and an affordable price tag Cura can turn any corner of your home into a garden Wyze Lock Bolt brings high-tech features, low-tech price tag How to reduce high pitch noise of Shark vacuums Product Reviews Smart Home Reviews Smart Home With the holiday season just around the corner, you want to be more vigilant about porch pirates than ever. Wyze's new Video Doorbell Pro can help with that. This smart doorbell improves on the previous Wyze Video Doorbell with twice as many features, but also comes with a higher -- but still affordable -- price tag of $65.
The Wyze Video Doorbell Pro can be hardwired or powered through batteries. It will get up to six months of battery life on a single charge, making it perfect for users that can't hardwire a video doorbell due to hardware constraints.
Smart Home Wyze continues to impress with its low-cost, budget offerings, and the new Wyze Cam Spotlight is no exception at the irresistible price of under $50. This bundle combines the Wyze Cam v3 with the Wyze Spotlight to take full advantage of the camera's Starlight CMOS Sensor. While it can already provide clear details in near-pitch-black conditions, a little bit of light helps it provide color. Combined with a spotlight, the Wyze Cam v3 can provide clear, full-color details of anything on camera. The spotlight also draws more attention to the area and makes your home a far less appealing target for thieves. After all, burglars aren't fond of the limelight.
This device consists of the Wyze Cam v3 and the Wyze Cam Spotlight, but the combined features of these two devices are what make this bundle so appealing. They include a miniature siren that can be used to frighten away intruders (or, as Wyze points out, to startle pesky animals like squirrels), two-way communication through the Wyze App, and IP65 weather resistance. This level of resistance means you can place the camera anywhere indoors or out, provided you don't want to mount it at the bottom of a fountain.
Smart Home Vacuuming can be a real pain, especially when your trusted dirt companion is nothing more than a massive weight on wheels. Thankfully, consumer tech brands have come up with plenty of reimagined vacuum designs to take the heaving out of your next whole-home weekend cleaning. Wyze, the popular smart home company known for everything from smart lights to security cameras, is the latest name to jump on the vacuum wagon, and the results will give other suction stalwarts a run for their money.
Just announced, the Wyze Cordless Vacuum is available for pre-order with a jaw-dropping price point of only $119. Compare that to competitive vacuum names like Shark (cordless models starting around $199) and Dyson (cordless starting at $299). You may be wondering if lower cost means lesser performance. With most things Wyze, that's simply not the case. This vacuum is no exception.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
