Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Smart Home Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Govee Smart Air Quality Monitor review: Simple but effective By Jon Bitner Close $60.00 Sleek design Large, intuitive display Versatile smartphone app Affordable price Can’t measure some key airborne pollutants Wired connection Govee might be known for its lineup of colorful smart lights, but there’s a lot more to the manufacturer’s catalog than LED strips and smart bulbs. In fact, one of its newest products is the Govee Smart Air Quality Monitor — a tabletop device that measures temperature, humidity, and airborne particulates in your home. It’s a nifty little gadget, and it looks great on a desk or living room table, but it lacks some key functionality that you’d expect out of an air quality monitor.
Easy setup and powerful app Some key measurements missing Great for budget shoppers However, if you can look past a few shortcomings, the Govee Smart Air Quality Monitor is a solid option for shoppers on a budget. It’s also a great choice for households equipped with other Govee products, as it’s controlled by the same powerful smartphone app and allows you to quickly customize its performance.
How to create spooky Halloween effects with smart home lighting and sound Best air purifier deals: Save big on Dyson, Shark, TCL and more Is an air quality monitor worth adding to your home? Easy setup and powerful app Image used with permission by copyright holder Unlike some air quality monitors , the setup for this Govee model is quick and painless. No calibrations are needed, which allows you to simply take the monitor out of the box, plug it in, connect it to your smartphone, and start taking measurements. The display on the unit is large and vivid — its brightness is adjustable in the app — and it has enough space to easily display the temperature, humidity, and particulate matter that’s 2.5 microns or smaller (PM2.5). There’s also a function button on top of the unit that lets you swap out PM2.5 values for the current time.
The display can essentially show four different values at once, an impressive feat for such a small device.
One of the cooler features of the Govee Smart Air Quality Monitor is the color-coded air quality alerts that can flash across its display. Right under the PM2.5 value is a thin bar that’s usually green. As your air quality changes, so too does the color of that bar. Depending on your air quality, it can change to green, blue, yellow, or red to give you a quick visual cue about your surrounding environment. The bar will continue to change color even if you’ve switched the display settings to show the time instead of PM2.5, allowing you to essentially get four different readings on the screen at once. Considering the monitor is small enough to fit in your hand, that’s a pretty impressive feat.
Even more impressive is the functionality packed into the smartphone app. Aside from detailed graphs highlighting your air quality history, you can set up different alerts, adjust brightness settings, perform quick calibrations, or change the measurements from Fahrenheit to Celsius. There isn’t much of a tutorial to help you navigate all these features, but most users should be able to pick up the basics after a few minutes poking through its menus.
Some key measurements missing Jon Bitner / Digital Trends While the Govee Smart Air Quality Monitor does a great job measuring PM2.5, temperature, and humidity, it lacks a few key features that can be found on more premium devices. The biggest omission is carbon monoxide. As one of the biggest threats to airborne quality in the typical home, it would have been nice to at least have an alarm that triggers if carbon monoxide approaches dangerous levels. It also lacks the ability to measure carbon dioxide levels.
When setting up the monitor, you’ll have to work around its wired connection, which could make it challenging to find a good location for it in your home. I ended up settling for a position on my desk, although it also worked great on an end table in my living room that was positioned near an electrical outlet. But when you consider the Govee Smart Air Quality Monitor’s price tag of $60, some of these omissions and inconveniences become more bearable.
Great for budget shoppers Image used with permission by copyright holder While there are a few measurements you’ll be missing out on with the Govee Smart Air Quality Monitor, it’s still a solid all-around product. Its sleek design, adjustable display, and the ability to show three measurements at once make it quite impressive. You’ll also benefit from the intuitive smartphone app that lets you further customize its performance or check up on your air quality history.
If you need something more robust, however, it might be best to increase your budget. Few products in this price range can measure carbon monoxide, carbon dioxide, or other dangerous particulates, and that holds true for Govee’s monitor. If, however, you need something that can give you the basics at a reasonable price (and is easy to use), then you can’t go wrong with Govee.
The Temtop M10 is worth consideration too — as it takes many of the same measurements without requiring a wired connection. And if you need something that can track more variables, be sure to check out our list of the best air quality monitors.
Editors' Recommendations Do air purifiers work? Best air conditioner deals: portable and window units on sale Best air fryer deals: As cheap as $25 5 cool smart home gadgets for summer 2023 Don’t miss these Prime Day air fryer deals, from just $20 Product Reviews Smart Home Reviews Smart Home SimpliSafe is already one of the best options when shopping for home security solutions, and it’s looking to become even more enticing with the launch of the new Smart Alarm Indoor Camera. Coinciding with the latest product is a new service -- 24/7 Live Guard Protection -- which allows agents to access a live feed of your property for enhanced response times.
The 24/7 Live Guard Protection service is only available on the Smart Alarm Indoor Camera. Previously, SimpliSafe agents could only review recorded footage after an alarm was triggered. Now, the team can monitor a live stream through the Smart Alarm Indoor Camera for improved response times. They can even interact with the intruder thanks to two-way audio, informing them that the police are on the way and that they’re being recorded.
Smart Home Govee is responsible for many of the best smart lights on the market, and today the company revealed its first-ever Matter product -- the LED Strip Light M1. Now available for $60, the LED Strip Light M1 is hoping to bring a bit more versatility to Matter, which continues to gain momentum throughout 2023.
Apple HomeKit users should be particularly excited about the LED Strip Light M1, as its support for Matter also means it’ll play nicely with Apple’s smart home ecosystem (which is another first for Govee). The lights are just as robust as you’d expect for a product from Govee, offering 60 light beads per meter, up to 50 adjustable points per meter, more than 64 Light Modes to customize their performance, and the ability to purchase an extension kit if you need more than the included 6.54 feet.
Smart Home How clean is the air you’re breathing? At one time or another, your home has probably been the unwilling host of microscopic pollutants. The best air quality monitors will constantly measure the types of irritants in your air, log the readings, and even kick on your air purifier to combat your home’s microbial pests.
Two common types of indoor air pollutants are fine particles and volatile organic compounds (VOCs). Fine particles are invisible irritants no larger than 2.5 micrometers in diameter, but they can cause serious issues for those with respiratory conditions. VOCs are invisible vapors and gases that are often the byproduct of burning fuel products, like gasoline and wood-burning stoves. While the best air purifiers on the market will work wonders to combat these invisible irritants, one thing most purifiers lack is the ability to locate and analyze the pollutants flying around your home. That’s the job of an air quality monitor.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
