Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Smart Home Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Hatch Restore 2 review: restful nights and relaxing mornings By Jon Bitner Close $150.00 Eye-catching design Highly customizable Functions as alarm clock and sleep light Easy to use Hatch Sleep membership is pricey The Hatch Restore 2 is a smart alarm clock, night light, and sound machine all wrapped into a single product. Whether you have trouble falling asleep at night or rising in the morning, the Restore 2 is designed to aid your sleep routine and help you wake up feeling fully rested. And, for the most part, it’s a resounding success. There are a few quirks with the sleep aid and it’s a bit expensive, but there’s no doubt it deserves a place of honor on your nightstand.
A multitalented sleep aid Streamlined design Hatch Sleep is (practically) required Summary A multitalented sleep aid Jon Bitner / Digital Trends In case the name didn’t give it away, the Restore 2 is the second iteration of the original Hatch Restore.
 It builds on the foundation of its predecessor, giving you access to tons of great features to help you fall asleep faster and wake up feeling more rested. All of its content essentially boils down to one of two groups — your Rest Routine or your Rise Routine.
Hatch Restore vs. Hatch Restore 2: what has changed? Hatch Restore 2 sleep companion shows off minimalist design at CES 2023 Before going to bed, you can activate a Rest Routine to help you drift off to sleep. This is highly customizable, allowing you to turn on lights of different colors, change their brightness, or play gentle sleep sounds (such as rainfall, passing trains, or even a campfire guitar soundtrack) to block out other noise in your environment. This ended up being more useful than expected, as the variety of sounds and colors available make it easy to find something relaxing.
The number of guided meditation options is truly staggering, and new content is added regularly.
Your mileage may vary, but I found it much easier to unwind and fall asleep at night with the Hatch Restore 2 than without it. The same goes for waking up, as the Rise Routine offers many of the same customization options — such as soothing sounds that gently increase in volume to introduce you to the day ahead.
You can also enable a light that mimics sunrise, although I found this to be a bit underwhelming, as the sun naturally filters into my bedroom through my window. But if you’re using blackout curtains to enhance your sleep or you’re waking up before the sun, it’s a nice feature.
A series of guided meditations and relaxation exercises can be found on your Hatch app, which provide you with a bit of structure if you’re having trouble navigating all the customizable options. The number of meditations/exercises here is truly staggering, and new content seems to be added regularly.
Streamlined design Image used with permission by copyright holder The original Restore was a good-looking device — but the Restore 2 is even more striking. Its half-dome shape is wrapped almost entirely in natural linen (which is available in multiple colors), and the lack of buttons on its face makes for a clean aesthetic. Tapping on its sides will adjust brightness and volume, while a toggle for your alarm is located on the side.
The Hatch Sleep app is intuitive and easy to use.
The only physical buttons are located on the back of the Restore 2 near the top of the device. One of them controls your Rest Routine, while the other controls your Rise Routine. Pressing the Rest button once will activate your Rest Routine, while tapping the Rise button will snooze the alarm and holding it for a few seconds will turn it off. I was a bit worried that two buttons wouldn’t be enough to control the action, but they work surprisingly well.
Of course, customizing your settings needs to be done with the companion app, but thankfully the software is intuitive and easy to use (despite all the ways you can modify your Restore 2).
Image used with permission by copyright holder Hatch Sleep is (practically) required While the Restore 2 itself is a remarkable product, the same can’t be said for its price tag. You’ll drop $150 on the Restore 2, and if you want to get the most out of your purchase, you’ll need to sign up for a Hatch Sleep membership.
 This costs $5 per month, which can slowly add up to a tidy sum if you stay subscribed over the years.
Hatch Sleep membership is definitely worth the price of admission.
However, you do get a lot for your money. Without a subscription, you’ll be able to use just a handful of the sounds and features available on the Restore 2. But with a subscription, you’ll gain access to an ever-growing library of sleep and rise sounds, along with Wind Down Channels that help you relax before going to bed.
Hatch Sleep membership is definitely worth the price of admission, although it positions the Restore 2 as a luxury sleep item that’s a bit more expensive than the competition.
Summary Image used with permission by copyright holder The Hatch Restore 2 is an impressive smart alarm clock and sleep aid that has few rivals. Its minimal design is both easy on the eyes and easy to operate, and a robust smartphone app gives you nearly unlimited access to its performance. It’s definitely one of the pricier options on the market, but if you need a bit of help falling asleep at night and rising each morning, this is about as good as it gets.
Editors' Recommendations The best alarm clocks Do you need a subscription to use Hatch Restore 2? The best sunrise alarm clocks Product Reviews Smart Home Reviews Wearable Reviews Smart Home Black Friday is a great opportunity to land some savings on household appliances, and this year’s early Black Friday deals include a lot of great discounts on washer and dryer bundles. The best washing machines and the best dryers are made all the better when they come bundled together. We’ve tracked down the best washer and dryer bundles you can shop this Black Friday, with several different brands offering a range of features and capacities to choose from.
Best LG washer & dryer Black Friday deals LG is one of the most well-known names in electronics. It makes devices from TVs to smartphones, but its home appliances are perhaps its most impressive lineup. LG has a lot to offer when it comes to washer and dryer bundles. It makes a lot of different models of varying capacities, and it offers some of the most cutting edge washing and drying smart features as well.
Smart Home Matter is arguably the biggest thing to happen to smart homes since their inception. The interoperability feature lets devices from different ecosystems interact with each other, giving you the freedom to shop for your favorite products regardless of manufacturer. Unfortunately, not all devices have rolled out support for Matter – and not all of them will.
Some notable products support Matter as of today, although dozens more are expected to add the functionality in the coming months. For now, here are the 11 best smart home products that support Matter. For a full list, head over to the official Matter website.
Deals There's never been a better time to spring for sustainable and portable power options, especially with BLUETTI offering some great Black Friday deals, plus an exclusive discount -- which we'll tell you more about in a second. These deals also coincide with a brand new release from the brand, with the debut of the BLUETTI AC200L portable solar generator and power station. It features a 2400-watt output, 2,048-watt-hour capacity, and a 1,200-watt solar input for speedy charging. It's a sleek newcomer that can be boosted to 3,600 watts in a PowerLifting mode for your extensive yet adaptable energy needs. More on that new station and the great deals below.
For a limited time, from November 17 until November 30, Digital Trends readers can use the coupon code DT100 at checkout to receive an extra $20 off. Yes, that code stacks with existing Black Friday deals.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
