Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Smart Home Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? This Roomba Robot Vacuum and Robot Mop bundle is 28% off today By Jennifer Allen Close iRobot One of the best robot vacuum deals is over at Amazon today. You can buy the iRobot Roomba s9+ robot vacuum and Braava Jet m6 robot mop bundle for $899 saving you a huge $350 off the regular price of $1,249. Working out at a 28% discount, this is one of the best ways to clean up your home with the minimum amount of effort on your part. If you’re keen to dive in and make the investment, read on while we take you through what you need to know.
Why you should buy the iRobot Roomba s9+ robot vacuum and Braava Jet m6 robot mop bundle Considered the most versatile robot vacuum in our look at the best robot vacuums , the iRobot Roomba s9+ robot vacuum and Braava Jet m6 robot mop bundle is instantly a tempting proposition. In conjunction with one of the best robot mops , you get the ultimate cleaning experience.
The robot vacuum component offers 40 times the suction power with its three-stage cleaning system being very capable at lifting, loosening and then eliminating debris and pet hair from deep within your carpets. It automatically increases the suction to clean more deeply via its power boost technology. There’s also PerfectEdge technology with advanced sensors and a specially designed Corner Brush that can optimize cleaning deep into corners and along the edges of your rooms. With 30% wider dual rubber brushes, it can also cope with pet hair without an issue.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
Alongside the wonders of the iRobot Roomba s9+ robot vacuum, there’s also the Braava Jet m6 robot mop. It has a precision jet spray that can tackle sticky messes and kitchen grease. It’s designed for larger spaces and multiple rooms and is able to navigate around objects and under furniture. The mop can clean finished hard floors including hardwood, tile, and stone.
Both devices are capable of learning the layout of the home, building personal Smart Maps so they can expertly clean your home from top to bottom. Any time you do want to take over, there are voice controls or you can use the iRobot Home app too.
For the ultimate clean at home, the iRobot Roomba s9+ robot vacuum and Braava Jet m6 robot mop bundle is incredibly convenient. Usually priced at $1,249, you can buy the bundle for $899 at Amazon so you’re saving $350 off the regular price. It’s going to change your home and your free time for the better. Check out the deal now before the 28% discount ends soon.
Editors' Recommendations Best Black Friday vacuum deals on Shark, Roomba, Bissell, and more Walmart just discounted this cordless vacuum and mop to $99 You’ll be shocked how cheap this Roomba is ahead of Black Friday 6 early Black Friday robot vacuum deals happening right now iRobot Braava Jet M6 robot mop is over $100 off right now Deals Amazon Robot Vacuums Smart Home Prime Day deals present a great opportunity to grab smart home devices that are usually just out of your price range; for instance, a quality robot vacuum. Right now the Roborock Q7 Max+ robot vacuum is down to $500 after a $370 discount. That brings this robot vacuum down from the luxury price range into the good investment price range. Grab it today, because Prime Big Deal Days ends tonight.
Why you should buy the Roborock Q7 Max+ robot vacuum The Roborock Q7 Max+ is an upscale robot vacuum and mop that competes with the best that Roomba has to offer. It comes with a charging station that also functions as a trash can, so the Roborock can return there and empty its dustbin before returning to finish the rest of its clean. That means you only have to empty the dustbin in the hub maybe once a week instead of the robot itself every day.
Smart Home If you're looking to step into the world of robot vacuums without paying an arm and a leg, the Roomba 676 is an entry-level device that won't break the bank. While the regular price of the Roomba 676 is $209, Walmart has heavily discounted it down to $139 for Prime Day, making it a steal if you're looking for a cheap robot vacuum and one of the better Roomba deals we've seen so far.
Why you should buy the iRobot Roomba 676 Robot Vacuum Probably one of our favorite features of iRobot vacuums like the Roomba 676 is how intelligent it is. Beyond doing a pretty good job of figuring out the parameters of your home and where not to go, it can also learn your schedule to stay out of your way. As such, it can adjust to your habits and routines so you don't have to be constantly stressing about it doing its job, not to mention the app integration, which lets you give it commands directly, which helps a lot with convenience. We also really appreciate the cliff detection feature, which stops it from accidentally throwing itself off a flight of stairs, saving your stairs and potentially having to buy a new Roomba.
Smart Home With fall here it, school is back, the air is getting comfortable again, and everybody wants to squeeze in extra outdoor time in the last nice days before winter strikes. It sounds nice, but the reality is that it also means a lot of leaf litter and tracked dirt into the home. Luckily, Amazon also started its event today. Not only does that mean a ton of fantastic October Prime Day deals on a variety of tech essentials but it also means you can get the iRobot Roomba 692 to clean up all the extra mess. Tap the button below to grab yours for just $200, which is $100 off the standard $300 price. Or, if you're a Prime member, you can get it for $165, which is $135 off the standard price.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
