Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Smart Home Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Litter Robot 4 review: a smart, automated pooper-scooper By Patrick Hearn Close $699.00 Automatically empties the litter box after each use Monitors cat weight Prevents odors Expensive Have you ever considered the potential utility of a Wi-Fi-enabled, smart litter box ? I hadn’t, but now that I’ve used the Litter Robot 4, I can’t imagine another way. You don’t realize how much time is spent scooping out a litter box until you don’t have to do it anymore.
A luxury cat bathroom A litter of features Day-to-day use It’s not a pleasant job. It stinks, dust flies everywhere, and your cat is utterly unappreciative of all the effort you put into giving her a good life. The Litter Robot 4 not only automatically scoops itself out, but it also bags up the remains in an odor-proof drawer for easy disposal later.
The SwitchBot Mini Robot Vacuum K10+ is designed for cramped rooms and tight spaces Arlo Essential XL 2nd Gen vs. Arlo Pro 4: Which is the better security camera? Cordless vs. robot vacuums: which one should you buy? It’s a fantastic device, albeit a bit on the pricey side. Whisker sent the latest model to me to try out, and it’s been great — in theory. In practice, my cat used it twice, noticed the rotating of the drum, and then refused to go anywhere near the Litter Robot again. There’s nothing in any reviewer guide about how to get a cat to cooperate, although Whisker does include instructions for introducing your cat to the litter box.
A luxury cat bathroom The Litter Robot 4 has an interesting design. There’s a small step in the front that your cat will need to use to climb into the litter box, and that might be off-putting to some animals. It serves a purpose, though: the step is actually a scale.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The litter box itself is more of a dome, and it can look a bit smaller than some litter boxes. My cat is a larger girl, and she had to get accustomed to the smaller size. There’s a plastic tarp-like material at the bottom that the litter goes on top of, too.
The Litter Robot 4 isn’t small, so make sure you leave enough room for it in your home. With dimensions of 22 inches by 27 inches, it can’t be tucked away under a table or hidden. The good news is that it does a great job of blocking out odor, so you don’t have to worry about stinking up your house.
The litter box definitely has a premium feel to it that matches its $700 price tag.
A litter of features It’s hard to nail down any specific features I could ask for in a smart litter box. It’s just not something you often think about. The main appeal, obviously, is that it’s self-cleaning; it does this by rotating the main drum and filtering the clean litter through a mesh. Any clumps and other matter are left on top of the mesh and then dumped through a hole into a bagged container in the bottom of the Litter Robot.
It works well, and it only takes a few seconds to clean the litter box. Sensors embedded within the waste container send alerts through the Whisker app, letting me know when it’s time to empty it out or when the litter is low.
There’s also a light just under the rim that lets you see at a glance whether your cat is in the box or not. As I mentioned earlier, the step also has a scale in it, and that has been a useful tool.
I started my cat on a diet food just before the Litter Robot 4 arrived, but I couldn’t tell whether it worked. Over the first few days, each time she stepped up into the box, it recorded her weight in the app. Little by little, I watched as she dropped a 10th of a pound at a time.
Sensors in the drum detect the presence of your cat and prevent the Litter Robot from activating, so there’s no worry that it will empty the litter while your cat is inside. This sensor is actually quite sensitive; you can tell when it’s active because the light atop the Litter Robot turns red.
If you’re trying to keep an eye on how often your cat uses the bathroom, the app can help.
There’s a control panel on top of the drum that can be used to manually cycle the litter, but the app also gives easy controls. Most of the work is done automatically, and you only need to intervene when it’s time to refill the litter or empty the waste tray. There’s also an internal filter that should be swapped out every two to three weeks.
The app tells you how often your cat is detected, and how often the box has cycled. If you’re trying to keep an eye on how often your cat uses the bathroom, this is a particularly useful trait. After all, cats are notoriously good at hiding symptoms of illness.
You can download the device history from the app and bring it with you to the vet to help identify any patterns. Paired with a diagnostic cat litter, the Litter Robot can be a phenomenal tool for spotting health problems before they worsen.
Day-to-day use It’s a well-known fact that cats are divas. They know they’re fabulous, and they expect everyone else to treat them as such — even when we know they’re derps at heart.
I love the concept of the Litter Robot, and I think it’s a fantastic device that works great. I just haven’t figured out how to convince my cat that she won’t be eaten if she steps into it.
The lack of a clean litter box is one of the main causes of feline misbehavior, but the Litter Robot 4 nicely handles that issue. In fact, if your cats get along, multiple cats can use the same Litter Robot without issue.
With a single cat, most people will need to empty out the waste drawer about once a week. That frequency will increase with the number of cats using the Litter Robot.
Image used with permission by copyright holder I love the concept of the Litter Robot, and I think it’s a fantastic device that works great. I just haven’t figured out how to convince my cat that she won’t be eaten if she steps into it. Once I do, I will relish the lack of litter box odor and that I won’t have to scoop litter every single night before bed. It kind of kills the whole relaxation vibe I have going.
The major downside to the Litter Robot 4 is the price. At $699, it’s definitely not an impulse purchase, but Whisker does help offset the cost by offering a 90-day in-home trial. It also includes a one-year warranty for free, with a three-year warranty for an extra $100.
If you’re a cat lover, then I would wholly recommend the Litter Robot 4. It will save you a lot of time and help keep your home a bit cleaner, especially since cats typically face outwards when using it — and as such, they don’t fling litter out of the box like it’s confetti on New Years’ Eve, 1999.
Editors' Recommendations Best robot mops of 2023 Arlo Essential 2nd Gen vs. Arlo Pro 4: is the Arlo Pro 4 worth it? The best smart locks for 2023 How often should you replace your robot vacuum? Matter adds support for fridges, air purifiers, robot vacuums, and more with massive 1.2 update Product Reviews Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Smart home gadgets come in all shapes and sizes -- but some are undoubtedly weirder than others. Video doorbells, security cameras, and smart thermostats are common in 2023, but did you know there’s such a thing as a smart toilet? Or how about a smart litter box? Here’s a look at five of the weirdest smart home gadgets of 2023. Some of them are surprisingly useful -- and might make a worthy addition to the right household.
Numi 2.0 Smart Toilet Smart Home Robot vacuums offer a hands-free way to keep your floors clean. But like all electronics, they sometimes run into issues that prevent them from working as intended. For robot vacuums, a common issue is when a device stops moving, rendering it all but useless. Figuring out what's causing your robot to stop moving isn't straightforward, as there are several different reasons this could be happening.
If you're trying to figure out how to fix a robot vacuum that stops moving, here's a quick rundown of everything you should check, along with general tips on how to solve the problem.
Check its wheels Smart Home The Ecovacs Deebot X2 Omni and iRobot Roomba Combo j9+ are two of the newest robot vacuums on the market. Offering not just the ability to vacuum and mop, but to also empty their dustbins, they’re two of the best robot vacuums money can buy. But which one is a better fit for your home? From vacuuming prowess and mopping skills to additional features and pricing, here’s a look at how the X2 Omni and Combo j9+ compare.
Pricing and availability Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
