Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Smart Home Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Moonside Lamp One review: A futuristic lamp that’s lacking some smarts By Jon Bitner Close $100.00 Millions of color options Highly customizable Lights dance across the lamp in unique ways Lacks HomeKit support Feels cheap There’s no better way to change the ambiance of a room than by altering its lighting. Whether you want something dim and romantic or bright and energized, smart lights can do it all — and they’ve quickly become a popular way to upgrade your smart home. The Moonside Lamp One is one of the newest editions to the marketplace, giving you access to millions of different colors with a diminutive footprint that makes it perfect for nightstands, desks, or the background of your latest Twitch stream.
Simple setup, simple construction The futuristic lava lamp Lacking some smarts The Moonside Lamp One is a powerful device, but it stumbles in some key areas that might make it less than appealing for some smart homes. But if you’re willing to look past its shortcomings, you’ll be treated to a light show that’s unlike anything else on the market.
The best smart home devices for 2023 Is an Ecobee Smart Security subscription worth it? The best smart locks for 2023 Simple setup, simple construction Image used with permission by copyright holder Like all smart lights, the Moonside Lamp One is easy to set up. Just plug in the USB cord, download the app on your phone, sync it via Bluetooth, and you’re ready to rock. You’ll also have the option to connect your Lamp One with Google Assistant , Amazon Alexa , or IFTTT — although you’ll need to create a Moonside account to access the requisite Wi-Fi connection that’s needed for this functionality.
As for the Lamp One itself, its construction is underwhelming. The shade is built from frosted plastic, which makes it a bit more durable than glass, but feels cheap when handling it. It’s also incredibly lightweight — I’ve found myself accidentally knocking it over during testing more times than I’d like to admit.
The device can be turned on and off remotely, and there’s also a nifty power button hidden away at the bottom of the device. I’m a fan of this positioning, as it’s tucked out of the way and gives the Lamp One a sleek appearance that’s almost entirely dedicated to the array of lights hidden within its circular walls.
The futuristic lava lamp Jon Bitner / Digital Trends The lights are truly the star of the show with the Lamp One. The LEDs inside provide a range of 16 million colors, have a 10-year life span, and can produce 120 dynamic color zones. It’s these dynamic zones that make the Lamp One come to life, as it can reproduce a variety of effects. From dancing flames and bouncing orbs to strobing lights and blending colors, there’s almost no limit to what the tiny lamp can do. I spent my first 20 minutes with the Lamp One simply scrolling through all the options, before settling on the Rising Rainbow as my theme of choice.
The smartphone app allows you to set a single color for the Lamp One, change its brightness, or choose a theme (like Dancing Beat, which sends colors racing up and down, or Candy Mix, which slowly merges colors across the shade). You can also design your own color scheme, or have the device react to nearby sound. The reactive sound function doesn’t work quite as well as expected, as it would only trigger if I bumped the table it was on or picked up the device.
All the other features, however, more than make up for this shortcoming. The list of themes is absolutely staggering, with dozens of unique options up for grabs. Moonside says that more themes are constantly being added — which should hopefully give the smart lamp some longevity in your home.
Lacking some smarts Image used with permission by copyright holder While the Lamp One has some impressive lights, it falls short in other areas that are just as important for a smart lamp. For one, it does not yet have HomeKit support. Its smartphone app also had quite a bit of lag when running on Wi-Fi, and oftentimes it wouldn’t respond at all until switching over to Bluetooth.
There’s also only a bare-bones tutorial to get you up to speed with how everything works. As a result, you’ll be left fumbling around with all the menus and buttons as you discover what they do on your own. An online manual is offered — but it’s not in-depth enough to cover everything you need to know. Coupled with the unresponsiveness of the Wi-Fi mode, it can be cumbersome to learn the Lamp One’s intricacies.
If you’re looking for a smart lamp that offers incredible versatility and puts on impressive light shows, the Lamp One deserves a closer look. Keep in mind that it won’t play well with HomeKit and it can be frustrating to control through the dedicated smartphone app, but for most shoppers, that shouldn’t be a deal breaker. Its price tag might be a bit steep (consider checking out our list of the best smart lamps for comparisons), but if you can find it on sale, the Lamp One makes a solid addition to any smart home.
Editors' Recommendations The 11 best smart home products that support Matter Emporia resolves issue with Smart Plugs that spurred recall The best smart displays for 2023 Cordless vs. robot vacuums: which one should you buy? Can smart plugs be used outside? Product Reviews Smart Home Reviews Smart Home When it comes to building a smart home, few steps are as important as choosing your smart home platform. Pick the wrong one, and you could be left using dozens of separate smartphone apps to control all your gadgets.
Apple HomeKit and Amazon Alexa are two of the best options available today -- but which one is better for you? Here’s a comparison of the two platforms to help you decide.
What is a smart home platform? Smart Home Smart home gadgets come in all shapes and sizes -- but some are undoubtedly weirder than others. Video doorbells, security cameras, and smart thermostats are common in 2023, but did you know there’s such a thing as a smart toilet? Or how about a smart litter box? Here’s a look at five of the weirdest smart home gadgets of 2023. Some of them are surprisingly useful -- and might make a worthy addition to the right household.
Numi 2.0 Smart Toilet Smart Home Ecobee, known for its lineup of popular smart thermostats, is officially jumping into the world of video doorbells with the aptly named Smart Doorbell Camera. Featuring an impressive 175-degree vertical field of view, premium materials, and the ability to sync with the rest of the Ecobee home security catalog, it's a well-equipped device that's taking aim at big names such as Ring and Arlo.
The big selling point of the Ecobee Smart Doorbell Camera is its 175-degree field of view, which allows it to capture packages left at your doorstep without cutting off your view of tall guests ringing your doorbell. It also boasts enhanced ability in lowlight situations and records in 1080p.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
