Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Smart Home Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Personal Rise Garden review: grow greens in your kitchen By Joni Blecher Close $349.00 Easy to maintain Lots of useful information in the app Large variety of greens and vegetables Works with Alexa App is confusing Set-up instructions could be better As winter approaches, the lure of having fresh greens and vegetables at your fingertips becomes so much more enticing. Most of us don’t have a greenhouse where we can grow them all year long, but thankfully there’s a solution: a hydroponic garden. The Personal Rise Garden is just such a product that fits easily on a kitchen countertop. Ideal for newbies and seasoned gardeners who want to use it for starters, the Personal Rise Garden is both fun to use and takes most of the guesswork out of gardening.
Setup and assembling the Personal Rise Garden seems intuitive Planting the garden The Rise smartphone app is robust but could use a few tweaks The Personal Rise Garden produced a bounty of vegetables and herbs Setup and assembling the Personal Rise Garden seems intuitive I’m a newbie to hydroponics, and to be fair, I’ve had a hard time keeping herbs alive that grow in pots on my deck. The thought of growing lettuce in my kitchen was thrilling and a little intimidating, which made the Personal Rise Garden all that more intriguing. Unpacking the box was a bit of a puzzle. There were so many pieces included: the frame, tray, tray lid, water pump, service door, tray filter, net cups, power supply, pump outlet tube, water pump, pump filter, a nursery tray, water testing strips, plant nutrients, seed pods, and a manual. Anyone with a little technical know-how could probably ditch the instructions. But, if you’re like me and new to hydroponics, it was a tad overwhelming.
The top 6 outdoor smart speakers for your garden The best kitchen gadgets to upgrade your cooking If you only buy one thing on Cyber Monday to upgrade your kitchen, make it this The manual, though filled with pictures, was a bit confusing and my puzzle pieces weren’t fitting together quite right. After about a half hour, I turned to YouTube for guidance. Sure enough, I found many people who had experience with the Personal Rise Garden. I followed along with the steps in the video and had it completely assembled in about five minutes. Here’s a tip: Wait to add the water until you place the garden where you want it to live in your home.
The Personal Rise Garden is fun to use and takes most of the guesswork out of gardening.
Measuring 16 x 18 x 11 inches (H x W x D), the garden takes up about as much space as a toaster oven on a kitchen counter. It even fits comfortably under kitchen cabinets. It looks good, too! The garden frame sports a minimalist style that literally frames the vegetables as they grow. After all, they’re the real star.
Planting the garden Image used with permission by copyright holder The next step in this journey was planting the seed pods in the nursery. However, I didn’t realize there was a separate nursery (a plastic casing with a clear lid – it didn’t have a label or was listed in included in the box), so I missed this activity entirely. While the instructions explain that the seeds need “a warm and humid environment for germination,” I thought the garden frame was the nursery. The good news is that the greens grew just fine without this step.
Instead, I skipped to filling the garden with water and testing the PH balance. The unit takes a lot of water, and you can watch the progress on the fill lines on the base of the tray. Then I tested the water using the included test strip to see if the water was hard or soft. You need to let the app know, so it can tell you how much nutrients you’ll need to add as the vegetables grow. Next, I poked a hole in the top of the seed pods, inserted them in the net cups, and started placing them in the dedicated spots in the garden tray lid. They snapped right into place. Now, it was time to enter them into the Rise app.
The Rise smartphone app is robust but could use a few tweaks Image used with permission by copyright holder The Rise app contains helpful, useful information about the vegetables and herbs it grows. It includes information on its nutrients, what germination looks like, when it should be ready to move into the garden, how to know when it’s at mid-growth, harvesting, and even some recipes from sites like YouTube, New York Times Cooking (requires subscription), Allrecipes, and more. You can even browse a plant library to learn more about other greens and vegetables — useful information for planning your next garden.
Simply connect the garden to the app via Wi-Fi and start selecting and adding your plants from the app’s library. During the garden set-up in the app, you choose the herb or vegetable you’re growing from the app and add it to the nursery. As they move out of the nursery, you add them to the Trays in the app. Plants are represented as images, not icons, so you know what they’ll look like as they grow. You can click on a plant at any time to get more information about it. As noted, I skipped the nursery section, so this didn’t go as smoothly for me, but I could still name my garden (helpful if you have multiple trays or have a larger Rise garden ).
The Rise app is smart but not quite smart enough.
For the most part, the garden is really set it and forget it. The light automatically turned on as the day grew darker and stayed on until morning. Two lights (water level and care level) illuminate when the garden needs attention. The app will also send notifications of when to do care and walk you through it — it even has a timer for how long to wait before adding the PH, Thrive, or Sprout nutrients that come in the package. Our version of the app, or the garden lights, didn’t tell us when to harvest the produce. As a result, we often harvested a few days past its due date. As a newbie, I would have liked to know that or at least realize that I needed to check the app to find out when to harvest.
The app has since gotten a bit of a makeover. You can even pair it with an Echo and instruct Alexa to turn its light on and off and walk you through care.
The Personal Rise Garden produced a bounty of vegetables and herbs Image used with permission by copyright holder There’s a lot to like about the Rise Personal Garden and at the top of the list is the produce it grows. There are so many nutrients present in the lettuce that are often gone by the time you buy it from a store, and the taste of freshly picked greens can’t be beaten. In less than a month, the garden produced enough lettuce to make multiple salads. I loved being able to cut off herbs for cooking. I could really taste the difference between this and organic lettuce bought even at an upscale store. And the aroma wafting through the kitchen of the fresh herbs growing is delightful.
The company offers a large variety of greens, fruits, vegetables, and flowers. The seeds are reasonably priced, ranging from $10 to $18 based on vegetable and package amounts. Often it comes out to just a couple of dollars a pod, but it will take a while to see any real savings from a smart garden.
The Personal Rise Garden isn’t the least expensive personal smart garden available: the AeroGarden costs about $150 less but lacks a compatible app. Rise and other companies like Click & Grow offer large-scale models that tend to cost over $500. In the end, if you’re considering investing in a smart garden, the Personal Rise Garden won’t disappoint and the app seems to be improving. Just take the time to plan the garden before planting, so that it’s always producing — isn’t that a general rule for all gardening? Editors' Recommendations Cura can turn any corner of your home into a garden This video doorbell can tell if the person on your doorstep has a fever LG not only wants to keep your leafy greens fresh, but help you grow them too Forget the gym. Mirror brings one-on-one personal training to your living room Like Roombas for your garden, Farmbot Genesis automates home farming Product Reviews Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Some people take their weed very seriously. LendEDU recently conducted a poll of 1,000 legal marijuana users, asking them about their spending habits. The poll found that cannabis consumers spend an average of more than $110 per month on marijuana, and they buy more than six pot-related products each month. Almost three out of 10 legal users (27.6 percent) spend more money on marijuana than they do on eating out at restaurants.
What are they buying? Well, in addition to purchasing the latest and greatest strains of cannabis, there's also a thriving tech and cooking market for enthusiasts. From kitchen gadgets to help with creating edibles to the latest storage and growing technology, it's a thriving market--and these are some of our favorite discoveries.
Smart Home Keen to expand the usability of its recently revamped robot dog, Sony has just introduced a new “Aibo Patrol” feature as part of its latest software update.
No, it doesn’t turn Aibo into an enraged, slavering guard dog that's ready to pounce on any intruders that break into your home in the small hours, though it’d be good if it did.
Smart Home Previous Next Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
