Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Smart Home Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Ring Spotlight Cam Pro review: get a bird’s eye view of your yard By Keyan Riddick Close $230.00 Compact Accurate radar motion detection Quality video footage Easy integration into Ring ecosystem Competitive price Average battery life Light is not super bright Can't connect to other smart home ecosystems Ring’s new Spotlight Cam Pro is a new addition to its fall 2022 home security line of security cameras, alarm devices, and other smart home products. It comes in two flavors: the Spotlight Cam Pro and Spotlight Cam Plus, which share many features, but the top-level Pro that I tested includes radar.
Contents Installation Specs Features App Worth the premium Do you really need that feature? After weeks of testing it, I found that it was well worth the premium Image used with permission by copyright holder Contents Ring’s Spotlight Cam Pro comes in a compact package that includes the camera itself, a micro-USB charging cable, mounting screws, a screwdriver, and even stickers to alert onlookers that your home is protected by Ring.
Arlo Video Doorbell 2nd Gen vs. Ring Video Doorbell Pro 2 Best security camera deals: Ring, Arlo, Blink and more on sale The Wyze Cam Floodlight Pro is a premium outdoor camera with tons of AI features I tested the battery-powered Spotlight Cam Pro, but it also comes in AC-powered and solar-powered versions. The battery model ships with a single battery, but has room to add a second for double the battery life. A USB-C port also means you can always decide to use it as a plug-in model later, or extend the battery life with add-on solar panels.
Installation Ring’s mounting disc makes installing the camera super easy. Simply screw the disc onto your external wall first, add on the holding cone, and lastly, snap the camera into place. It takes less than 15 minutes.
You’ll want to make sure you place the camera low enough to easily reach it for battery swaps and troubleshooting. Luckily, the entire camera doesn’t need to be removed in order to charge the battery. You can twist off the bottom and eject the battery instead of removing the whole unit.
Once set up, you can loosen the mounting knob to change the angles of the camera. The more backyard you have, the more level the camera will need to be. I had it angled down quite a bit when using it on my apartment porch.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Specs The Ring Spotlight Cam Pro is one of the very few cameras that uses radar to detect motion, not just changes in the camera image. This tech powers 3D motion detection, which we’ll get into below.
Otherwise, the specs largely mirror the cheaper Ring Spotlight Cam Plus. It records in color 1080p resolution, which, while not 4K , is excellent for home use and easy to save and share through the cloud. Two small spotlights housed within the body of the camera keep the dimensions compact, but if you need more light, Ring makes the Floodlight Cam Pro (that’s the main difference when you compare the Ring Spotlight Cam Pro versus the Ring Floodlight Cam Pro ). The lights on the smaller unit were enough for my porch, but I could see someone with more land to cover opting for the larger Floodlight Cam Pro.
The camera’s field of view is 140 degrees horizontal and 80 degrees vertical. I’d love more vertical field of view to avoid needing to angle it so low to see the door. Two-way audio with noise cancellation allows you to communicate with guests, and a remote-activated siren lets you scare off intruders.
Features Three new features make the Spotlight Cam Pro stand out from its peers: bird’s eye view, 3D motion detection, and pre-roll.
Pre-roll is one of my favorite additions. Instead of getting an alert and seeing what’s happening, you get to view a few seconds of footage before the alert comes through. This feature can help you track the path an intruder took to get into your area and help you prevent it from happening again. In my neighborhood, I only have people walking their dogs or kids running around, but it was still cool to see the beforehand movements.
The Spotlight Cam Pro can discern people, animals, cars, and more.
Bird’s eye view allows you to see a trail of where a subject went in the motion zones during a time when you weren’t in live view. Like pre-roll, bird’s eye is a fantastic feature that helps you track intruders if needed. The only downside to this feature is that you can’t use it with pre-roll; you can only enable one or the other.
The last unique feature is 3D motion detection, which relies on the new radar technology built into the camera. It’s not something you enable and disable, so much as a feature that powers and improves all the motion detection in the camera. In the app, you can adjust all motion features, and you should notice more precision in your alerts.
App Every environment is unique, and the Ring app allows you to adjust your camera for your property. For instance, every motion feature can be tuned for sensitivity, and if you only want one area covered, you can use shapes to define that in the map. The Spotlight Cam Pro can discern people, animals, cars, and more, allowing you to choose which you’d like to receive notifications about. Receiving notifications about all of them produced overwhelming notification spam for me, so I enabled notifications for only people and animals, and only for the area of my porch.
The Pro’s new radar-based motion-detection features are some of the most accurate I’ve tested.
The camera can also take a snapshot periodically to give you a quick view of your area. This helps you look at what has changed in your area over time in case you don’t want to use notifications.
After setting up one Ring smart home system, setting up new devices becomes much easier because details like Wi-Fi information will automatically carry over during the initial setup. I have the Ring Alarm security system and other Ring cameras, so adding this outdoor camera was a breeze. You can also link devices, so if one camera detects motion, another camera can start rolling, lights could turn on, or whatever action you define.
Worth the premium The Spotlight Cam Pro retails for $230, only a $30 increase over the similar Plus model. For that price, the upgrade is a no-brainer. Either model is a great outdoor security camera , but the Pro’s new radar-based motion-detection features are some of the most accurate I’ve tested.
Just keep in mind that to properly take advantage of some of the best motion detection features, you’ll have to pay a subscription of $4 per month or $40 per year. And that price jumps if you have multiple Ring cameras at home. But compatibility between cameras and other devices is another strong reason to recommend this camera. Ring has a whole smart home suite of products to connect to one another, and the connectivity helps them work better.
Depending on your needs, you should consider several alternatives when looking at the Spotlight Cam Pro. For example, the Ring’s Floodlight Cam Pro works well if you need a stronger light and don’t mind less accurate motion detection features. If you want to connect your security camera to a smart home ecosystem other than Amazon, then the Arlo cameras also work well. Lastly, if you need more budget-conscious cameras, Blink makes models as affordable as $35.
Editors' Recommendations Tapo C120 vs. Ring Stick Up Cam Pro: is the expensive Ring security camera worth it? Ring helps you find your lost furry friend with the Ring Pet Tag Ring Indoor Cam vs. Arlo Essential Indoor Camera: which is best? The founder of Ring is leaving Amazon to join Latch Ring’s new indoor camera features a built-in privacy shutter Amazon Product Reviews Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Ring has long dominated the smart doorbell market, offering an intuitive product that makes it easy to see who (or what) has wandered up to your front door. The company is now turning its gaze towards vehicles, as it debuted the Ring Car Cam during CES 2023.
The Ring Car Cam is exactly what it sounds like -- a dash cam that attaches to your windshield and dashboard. It offers a dual-facing camera that captures both the interior of your vehicle and its surroundings, offering you peace of mind when parked or serving as evidence should you get in an accident. You can also communicate through the Ring Car Cam thanks to its built-in microphone and speaker.
Smart Home Spotlight cameras are smaller, nimbler versions of motion sensor floodlights used to protect outside areas. While today’s security cams feature plenty of night vision features, activating a spotlight adds some extra illumination -- and can frighten away unwanted guests, both human and animal.
Two of the most consumer-friendly, Wi-Fi-ready options are the Nest Cam Floodlight version and the recently-announced Ring Spotlight Cam Pro. Let’s pit these two against each other and see which comes out ahead! Overall design and installation Deals The two most popular shopping events of the year are Prime Day and Black Friday, and Amazon is now presenting us with the Prime Early Access Sale, a shopping event that’s sandwiched right between the two. It will be taking place on October 11 and October 12, and this is great news for anyone who missed out on the first round of 2022 Prime Day deals, and anyone looking to add a Ring Doorbell to their smart home setup. Amazon is promising huge discounts with the sales event, and with Ring being an Amazon-owned brand, it’s a near certainty we’ll be seeing huge Prime Day Ring Doorbell deals.
Whether you’re shopping for yourself or someone else, the Prime Early Access Sale will be a great time to kick off your holiday shopping. Not only do we expect huge Ring Doorbell discounts but many of the best smart home devices are likely to see sales. But the Ring Doorbell lineup is at the top of many holiday shopping wishlists, and we’re already starting to see some early Prime Early Access Sale discounts turning up. Read onward for more details on those, and for more information on how best to navigate the Prime Early Access Sale with Black Friday not long after it.
Today's best Prime Day Ring Doorbell deals Ring Video Doorbell Wired -- $40, was $65 Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
