Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Smart Home Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Roborock S8 Pro Ultra review: set it and forget it By Jon Bitner Close $1,600.00 Impressive vacuuming skills Mops and vacuums in a single run Automatically cleans and empties itself Easy-to-use smartphone app Mop only lifts up a few millimeters When it comes to robot vacuums , few companies are as well-regarded as Roborock. The company has been churning out premium gadgets for years, and that trend continues with the Roborock S8 Pro Ultra. Offering just about every feature you’d want in a robot vacuum/mop combo, it’s easy to forget the Roborock S8 Pro Ultra is installed in your home — which is just about the highest praise you can give to a robot vacuum.
Everything all at once Set it and forget it Top-tier performance Add it to your home It’s not without a few quirks, but there aren’t many products that function as autonomously as Roborock’s latest flagship.
Eufy’s new X9 Pro Robovac offers automated mopping and vacuuming for less than $1,000 New Roborock S7 Max Ultra boasts maintenance-free dock, impressive mopping skills Arlo Pro 4 vs. Arlo Pro 5S: which security camera comes out on top? Everything all at once Image used with permission by copyright holder What sets the Roborock S8 Pro Ultra apart from the competition is that it automates nearly everything you can think of. The luxury device can autonomously vacuum carpet, mop tile, empty its dustbin, rinse its mop, and even go through a drying cycle to prevent the buildup of mildew (one of the big new features compared to the outgoing S7 Pro Ultra).
Seeing all these features on a single product is impressive. What’s even more impressive, however, is how easy it is to get things set up and working properly. After finding a good place for its dock (which also holds a disposable dustbin, water reservoir, and dirty water reservoir), you’ll simply need to let Roborock map your home before turning it loose to clean your floors.
It does a surprisingly great job of recognizing when it needs to mop versus when it needs to vacuum, and I never once encountered a time when it was accidentally performing the wrong task (something that’s often a problem on lower-end devices).
Set it and forget it Roborock With the ability to clean all types of floors and then clean itself, it’s easy to forget about the Roborock S8 Pro Ultra — and that’s a very good thing. Robot vacuums are supposed to automate your cleaning routines, freeing you up to tackle more important tasks. Unfortunately, too many robot vacuums on the market require constant maintenance, frequent dustbin cleanings, mop management, or — even worse — they get stuck on objects in the middle of a run.
These are largely worries of the past with the Roborock S8 Pro Ultra. The high-end device has some of the best navigation AI I’ve yet seen, allowing it to avoid anything that gets in its way. It also does an excellent job of cleaning every inch of your home and avoiding “Restricted Zones” if you set them up using the accompanying smartphone app.
It’s possible to go nearly seven weeks without needing to worry about Roborock.
Best of all, Roborock does an excellent job with routine tasks, such as emptying its dustbin and cleaning its mop. After each cleaning cycle, the robot vacuum will head back to its base, where its tiny dustbin is vacuumed out into a larger waste bin above its charging dock. It also goes through a mop-cleaning cycle, which consists of running clean water over the mop and drying it with warm air. It’ll also refill its water reservoir for the next mopping session.
All told, it’s possible to go nearly seven weeks without needing to worry about Roborock. Of course, you might need to detangle its brushes every so often (and there’s the regular maintenance that’s recommended, such as cleaning its external sensors), but that’s unavoidable with all robot vacuums.
Toss in an intuitive smartphone app that lets you schedule cleanings and monitor performance, and it’s easy to see how the Roborock S8 Pro Ultra makes it easy to keep your home clean without having to lift a finger.
Top-tier performance Roborock More important than its long list of features and autonomous design is its real-life performance. After all, there’s no point in automating your cleaning routine with the S8 Pro Ultra if it doesn’t provide adequate cleaning. Thankfully, both the mopping and vacuuming skills of this robot vacuum are top of the line.
Roborock outfitted the S8 Pro Ultra with its new VibraRise 2.0 Mopping System, which is just a fancy way to say that this is the best mopping experience you’ll find on a Roborock product. With a wider cleaning zone, high-speed scrubbing, and consistent pressure, I’ve yet to encounter a spill that it couldn’t handle.
Roborock maxes out at 6,000 Pa of suction, which is more than enough to handle most cleaning tasks.
The only downside to its mop is that it can only lift off the ground 5mm — which means it could graze the top of very plush carpets. That’s not too big of a deal for most homes, but it would be nice if the mop could completely retract out of the way as it does on the Roomba j7+ combo.
Its vacuuming performance is just as impressive as you’d expect, with various power settings available for all types of cleaning needs. All told, it maxes out at 6,000 Pa of suction, which I’ve found to be more than enough to pull out pet fur, food crumbs, dirt, and other debris lurking in my carpets.
Add it to your home The Roborock S8 Pro Ultra is an easy recommendation for every household. Not only does it look great and automate both cleaning and maintenance, but its performance falls in line with other premium products with a similar price tag. That’s a hefty price tag, to be sure, as you’ll drop $1,600 if you’re looking to add the S8 Pro Ultra to your home.
Price aside, anyone looking to automate their cleaning needs would be hard-pressed to find a better product than this. With a sleek design, easy setup, powerful smartphone app, and a premium cleaning experience, the Roborock S8 Pro Ultra lets you forget about cleaning your home.
Editors' Recommendations 8 Google Assistant settings you should disable or adjust Roborock S8 Pro Ultra vs. Roborock S7 Max Ultra: Which is the better robot vacuum? Roborock S8 Pro Ultra vs. Ecovacs Deebot T10 Omni: which is the better robot vacuum? Roborock S8 lineup brings next-gen cleaning skills to CES 2023 Roborock S7 Max vs. Ecovacs Deebot X1 Product Reviews Smart Home Reviews Smart Home If you've been shopping for the latest in home security systems, you've probably heard of or seen Arlo systems. One of the premier brands for wired and wireless security packages, Arlo's cameras are a breeze to install, a cinch to control and customize, and reliable year-round, indoors and outdoors. The average home or business owner doesn't have a lot of patience to look through the specs on a bunch of similar Arlo cams, though, so we're making things easier for you.
Let's look at three of the most popular Arlo models: The Arlo Pro, Arlo Pro 2, and Arlo Ultra. Here's how they match up and which is best depending on your own needs.
Design Arlo Pro 2 Image used with permission by copyright holder Smart Home The new Roborock S7 robot vacuum offers new, powerful features that make it stand out from the rest of the Roborock lineup and seal its position as the brand's top-of-the-line model just in time for CES 2021. Following the success of its S6 MaxV last year, the Roborock S7 is unique because it leverages one of the fastest sonic mops on the market, which means it scrubs anywhere from 1,650 times per minute all the way to 3,000 times per minute.
This gives it the ability to disintegrate dirt and dried-on grime to provide a more thorough clean than any other mop on the market. It combines this with an intelligent lift technology powered through VibraRise that ensures the mop deactivates and lifts itself out of the way when carpets are detected.
News As the holiday season approaches and the need for improved home security grows, Arlo has added two new options to its home security lineup: The Arlo Pro 4 and the Arlo Ultra 2 spotlight cameras. These cameras not only utilize color night vision, but also have built-in spotlights to pinpoint activity in their field of view and potentially scare away intruders. The new cameras supplement the company's other recent budget offerings and continue to broaden its portfolio.
One feature of note is that both the Arlo Pro 4 and Arlo Ultra 2 cameras are wire-free and don't require dedicated hubs anymore, allowing for more diverse placement. With no need for a hub to connect them to a wireless network, you aren't limited by the proximity of power outlets when placing these cameras.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
