Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Smart Home Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Samsung Bespoke Jet review: aesthetic, powerful cleaning at a cost By Patrick Hearn Close $900.00 The world has reached a point where the last thing any of us seemingly want to do is empty a dust bin.
Samsung Bespoke Jet design: It’s got that mid-century modern Jetsons-chic Samsung Bespoke Jet tools and accessories: plenty to go around Samsung Bespoke Jet cleaning: strong enough suction that I feared for my carpet Samsung Bespoke Jet: other features Self-emptying stick vacuums.
 Self emptying-robot vacuums. They’re everywhere, and while they’re convenient, I’m not sure the feature is that much of a selling point. I’d rather see a vacuum with enough suction power that I only have to go over the floor once. I can empty my own dust bin.
Cordless vs. robot vacuums: which one should you buy? How to choose a robot vacuum Samsung SmartThings gets Matter support on iOS Samsung sent the Bespoke Jet Cordless Stick Vacuum to me for review. I’ve used it for a few weeks now to great results. It delivers on all counts: great at cleaning, comfortable enough to use for extended periods, and — this is the big one — it also empties itself. Everything I could ask for in a stick vacuum.
But how does it stack up overall? It’s a solid piece of machinery that definitely has an aesthetic flair, but it’s brought down by the price point and the relatively short battery life.
Samsung Bespoke Jet design: It’s got that mid-century modern Jetsons -chic Since this vacuum is part of Samsung’s Bespoke line , it. should come as no surprise that a lot of consideration was put into its design. This isn’t meant to be stashed away in some closet and only brought out when it’s time to vacuum; the Bespoke Jet looks to earn a spot in plain view.
Samsung A sturdy base with a single, relatively thin connecting beam hoists the body of the vacuum into the air. The base itself is balanced so there’s no risk of it tipping, even though it looks like it should. It’s for more than looks, too; the bag rests inside the main body of the stand. Anytime you dock the vacuum, it automatically empties into it.
The Bespoke Jet earns a spot in plain view.
The vacuum itself maintains the same color accents, but it ultimately just looks like a vacuum cleaner. There’s not much to say there. The only difference is that the Bespoke Jet has great color accents: either black and gold like the one I have, white and gold for the Misty White color option, or blue and silver for the Midnight Blue option.
Competitors to the Bespoke Jet, like the LG CordZero All-in-One , store accessories right beside the vacuum in doors that swing out. The Bespoke Jet includes a handy little accessory rack, but I found myself wishing it had built-in storage. While the rack is a nice addition, it’s yet another thing that takes up space on the floor, but is too small to really fit anywhere.
Image used with permission by copyright holder It did get stashed away out of sight. I only sought it out when I needed a tool for cleaning.
Samsung Bespoke Jet tools and accessories: plenty to go around The accessory stand is nice. It doesn’t look bad; it’s just the wrong size for what it is. It falls into some weird limbo between small enough to easily store and large enough to display alongside the vacuum itself. That said, it does come with a handy set of tools.
The Bespoke Jet will likely have its standard, telescoping cleaning tool on it at all times. It’s the go-to for cleaning the floor, after all. The rack holds the crevice tool, a flexible extension tool, a brush tool, and a dedicated pet tool. The pet tool is great for getting cat hair off furniture, but I also found it to be one of the best ways to clean the stairs. It’s small enough to be flexible.
The most important accessory, though, is the extra battery pack. You can keep it charged and swap it out easily when your main battery goes dead.
The accessory rack also has a handle at the top for easily picking it up and moving it around the house as needed.
Samsung Bespoke Jet cleaning: strong enough suction that I feared for my carpet The main event, and the key to any good vacuum cleaner , is how powerful its suction is. It has to be able to get even ground-in dirt out of carpet or suck up debris from hardwood floors (something I find many vacuums struggle with).
The Bespoke Jet delivers. It definitely delivers. I used it in its different cleaning modes on a space that should probably get vacuumed a little more often, but is often neglected: my upstairs loft.
The first time I vacuumed, I used the Minimum setting. It’s by far the quietest, but the least powerful. It did an okay job, but left me feeling like it could have done a lot more. I repeated the process with Medium and Max modes. Since the Bespoke Jet has a clear dust bin, I could see more and more material accumulating inside it, even as I vacuumed the same space multiple times.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Max Mode is probably the best option for finding a balance between cleaning power and battery life. Each successive mode uses that much more battery, and the LED display on top of the vacuum indicated a shorter overall runtime as I swapped between the modes.
Then there’s Jet Mode.
I turned it on, and felt physical resistance as I tried to push the vacuum forward due to the level of suction. It’s the loudest, too, but it definitely cleans. I could see a tremendous difference in the floor after running over it with Jet Mode, but it comes at a cost.
Jet Mode had me reaching for the stapler to secure the carpet.
The battery life drains like water out of a sieve. Look at it this way: On the Minimum setting, the display told me I had 42 minutes of cleaning time left. On Jet Mode, I had eight minutes left. Both of these were within seconds of one another on a fully-charged battery.
Samsung says the Bespoke Jet can get up to 120 minutes of runtime, but even the lowest setting only gave an estimate of 42 minutes. And honestly? You’re wasting your time with the lowest setting. It’s good for light touch-ups or for cleaning up spills, but if you’re going to take the time to vacuum anyway, give it a thorough clean.
I ran into a few issues with the self-emptying bin, too. It did a fine job of pulling all the debris out of the vacuum. It didn’t do such a good job of shutting the vacuum afterwards; I had to apply what felt like an undue amount of force to snap it into place.
Samsung Bespoke Jet: other features There are a lot of handy little features to the Samsung Bespoke Jet that speak to the thoughtfulness of its design. For example, the Flex Tool. It’s useful for vacuuming flat areas above your head, like the top of a cabinet. The telescopic pipe also has enough flexibility to reach deep under couches, though you might have to do a bit of what I’ve dubbed “cleaning yoga” to get there. It’s like hot yoga, but you’re only sweating because you clean the house.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The entire vacuum is only 5.7 pounds, which isn’t bad at all. Even older family members could use it without worrying much about the weight. The dust bin is also fully removable and washable , which will become a necessity. Fine grains of dust find their way into nooks and crannies that won’t be cleared out when the Bespoke Jet empties out the dust bin.
I mostly appreciated the 5-layer filtration system. That’s the sort of technical specification that’s harped on by marketing teams, but is rarely applicable in reality. I found that the Bespoke Jet did a fine job of capturing dust particles and not spreading them. The way I could tell was simple: I didn’t sneeze nearly as much while vacuuming as I do with lower-end machines, like the Wyze Cordless Vacuum.
The included washable micro filter helps extend the lifespan of the vacuum, too. There’s just a certain annoyance that comes with spending upwards of $100 to replace the filter in something, whether that’s a vacuum cleaner or an air purifier.
Therein lies the biggest obstacle to this vacuum: the cost. While it performs admirably in everything it does, it’s hard to stomach the $900 price tag. That’s a lot of money to spend on a vacuum cleaner, even one that looks as good as this.
I can’t help but feel the Bespoke Jet cashes in on its brand. Despite the ample cleaning power, thoughtful design, and convenience, I can’t recommend a vacuum at that price point, especially when the costs of other goods are also on the rise.
 This is a great vacuum cleaner, but it’s not a $900 vacuum cleaner. If you can snag it on sale for $650, or even $700, that’s a more appropriate price point.
The Bespoke Jet is a great machine, and a truly powerful cleaning tool, but it should get more cleaning time on its highest settings. The aesthetic appeal of the vacuum isn’t enough to raise the price to that point. If I have a vacuum out in the living room, I would want it to look good, but I’m not going to put a vacuum on display because it looks good. In the end, it’s still a tool.
Editors' Recommendations Best cordless vacuum deals: Get a Dyson-style vac for $89 Best vacuum deals: cordless to corded, Dyson to Bissell Dyson is gearing up to launch the most powerful robot vacuum in the world Roborock S8 lineup brings next-gen cleaning skills to CES 2023 Samsung reveals futuristic new smart home appliances for CES 2023 Product Reviews Samsung Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Looking at high-end cordless vacuums? Two of the best options on the market are LG’s CordZero and Samsung’s Bespoke Jet. Both are smart, battery-powered vacuums that can do a little bit of everything, ideal for whole-house cleaning. We’ve reviewed both models, and we’re ready to pit them head-to-head to see which comes out on top.
Cordless vacuum design and cleaning features Both the CordZero and the Bespoke Jet are all-in-one vacuum kits with stations that house the stick vacuums, charge their batteries, and store important cleaning attachments. Both models also have the interesting capability to empty into a larger bin when they are charging, which can save you a little time when it comes to quick cleaning projects.
Smart Home Thanksgiving is approaching and, for many people, that means hosting the big event. While some may find hosting the holiday meal to be stressful and chaotic, you’re not worried. Because you’re a smart cookie, you know you can use tech and gadgets to streamline everything and have your kitchen run like a Gordon Ramsay-approved assembly line. If you need ideas on how to make things easier and more efficient, you’ve come to the right place. Here are the top ways smart tech can help you plan, organize, and execute the best Thanksgiving dinner.
Smart Home Ecovacs, a prominent name in the world of home service robots, is expanding its lineup with a robotic lawnmower and commercial floor cleaning robot. The two products are expected to arrive in China next year, although pricing and North American release dates are yet to be determined.
The robot lawnmower, Goat G1, is arguably the more interesting of the two, as it’s designed for both personal and commercial use. This will be the first robotic lawnmower from Ecovacs, although it builds on existing technology to offer a lawn-mowing experience that works much like a robot vacuum. After mapping out your yard with an accompanying smartphone app, the Goat G1 will go about cutting grass with centimeter-level precision, thanks to a 360-degree camera and the ability to scan 25 frames per second to avoid moving obstacles.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
