Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Smart Home Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? This Shark robot vacuum just had its price slashed from $249 to $129 By Aaron Mamiit Close Shark If you think you need help in keeping your floors clean, you may want to think about taking advantage of robot vacuum deals.
 You won’t even have to spend much, because there are offers like Walmart’s $120 discount for the Shark ION RV754. This brings the robot vacuum’s price down to just $129, which is nearly half its original price of $249. We’re not sure how much time is remaining on this bargain though, so if you’re interested, you should complete the purchase now to be able to pocket the savings.
Why you should buy the Shark ION RV754 robot vacuum The best robot vacuums make cleaning your floors very convenient, and that’s something you’ll also get from the Shark ION RV754. You’ll be able to use either the SharkClean app on your smartphone , or voice commands through smart home devices that are powered by Amazon’s Alexa or Google Assistant , to initiate the cleaning process. Once it starts, it can run for up to 120 minutes before it needs to go back to its charging station, and with its onboard sensors — which are among the features to consider in our guide on how too choose a robot vacuum — it can avoid falling down stairs and bumping into furniture.
With its tri-brush system that includes a multi-surface brush roll, side brushes, and channel brushes, the Shark ION RV754 robot vacuum will be able to pick up all types of dirt and debris across every kind of surface that you have in your house. Once you activate the cleaning device, you’ll be able to relax as it does its job without any need for you to intervene.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
The Shark ION RV754 robot vacuum may be one of the more affordable options with its sticker price of $249 — and it’s currently even cheaper from Walmart for just $129 for savings of $120 — but it’s going to make it much easier to maintain a spotless home. If you think this is a great device to add to your housekeeping arsenal, you’re going to want to push through with the transaction as soon as possible. If you take too much time thinking about it, you may lose this chance to get the Shark ION RV754 robot vacuum for nearly half-price.
Editors' Recommendations The best early Keurig Black Friday deals — from $35 Best Black Friday vacuum deals on Shark, Roomba, Bissell, and more Shark Black Friday sale: Save on vacuums, air purifiers, and more This self-emptying robot vacuum is discounted from $499 to $198 This Dyson cordless vacuum just had its price slashed for Black Friday Deals Robot Vacuums Smart Home You don't have to wait for Black Friday to access amazing cordless vacuum deals, because there are early offers that you can shop right now like Walmart's $201 discount for the Shark Cordless Pro IZ540H. Instead of $399, you'll only have to pay $198 for this cordless vacuum, which will provide immense help when you're cleaning your home. It's not going to stay this cheap for long though, so if you want to get it for less than half-price, you know what to do -- add it to your cart and check out as soon as possible.
Why you should buy the Shark Cordless Pro IZ540H vacuum The Shark Cordless Pro IZ540H offers powerful suction to be able to pick up all kinds of dirt and debris from different floor types, including carpets and hard floors, and it's also equipped with Clean Sense IQ technology that detects particles that you can't see and automatically increases power to get them. The cordless vacuum also comes with the PowerFins Plus brushroll, so it won't have any trouble with pet hair and larger piles of dust.
Smart Home The second-generation Amazon Echo Show 8, a smart display that's powered by Amazon's Alexa, is currently on sale for just $60 instead of $130 from Amazon. With the recent launch of its successor, the device is back down to its lowest-ever price for savings of $70, but we're also not sure how long it will take before stocks are all gone. If you're interested in taking advantage of this offer, you're going to have to hurry with your purchase because it may disappear sooner than you expect.
Why you should buy the Amazon Echo Show 8 (2nd Gen) The second-generation Amazon Echo Show 8, released in 2021, features an 8-inch HD touchscreen, stereo speakers, and a 13MP camera. You'll be able to use Alexa for functions such as searching for a recipes, getting updated with the latest news, accessing your other smart home devices, playing streaming shows, and many others all through voice commands. When you're making video calls with the Amazon Echo Show 8, you'll automatically stay at the center of the frame even when you move around the room.
Smart Home Using an air fryer instead of going for the traditional deep frying can be much healthier, and with so many great options to pick from, you're certainly spoiled for choice. For example, if you want something well suited to cooking for two or more people, then the Ninja Max XL Air Fryer has an absolute ton of space inside. And, while it usually goes for $170, Amazon has heavily discounted it to $100, meaning you get some great savings if you opt to go with the Ninja Max.
Why you should buy the Ninja Max XL Air Fryer The XL name on the Ninja Max is no joke, with a massive 5.5-quart fryer for you to work with, and can fit about three pounds of french fries or chicken wings, which is more than enough for a couple of people. It can also reach a blistering 450 degrees of heat, and with the powerful fan that circulates the air, you'll get great coverage while cooking everything much faster. You can also opt to cook with heat as low as 105 degrees, so if you need a light roast or fry, then you can get that, too. Luckily, there are a lot of modes you can pick from, including air roast, air broil, bake, reheat, and dehydrate, so it's quite versatile.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
