Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Smart Home Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Thermacell Radius mosquito repeller review: shockingly effective! (without the shocks) By Erin Lawrence Close $40.00 It really works! Operates silently No smell, no noise Small enough to be portable Rechargeable Creates an effective circle of protection Worked for humans and dogs Recharging time is very long Battery could last longer Image used with permission by copyright holder Depending on where you live, you’ve either had a beautiful reprieve from mosquito bites, or you’re being eaten alive. But one thing is true about these bloodsucking bugs: they always show up in force in the end.
What is the Thermacell Radius? Setup Using Thermacell Radius Battery life and charging Our take I’ve been doing research into mosquito-repelling devices, and the $40 Thermacell Radius Mosquito Repeller has come up a few times as one of the most popular picks. I recently picked up a Thermacell Radius and, in this review, I’ll take a look at what it does, how it works, and — most importantly — whether it works.
Can you use a Blink Outdoor Camera without a subscription? Drinkworks Home Bar Classic makes cocktails without taking much shelf space The Proscenic P10 Pro has Dyson-like features without the Dyson cost What is the Thermacell Radius? The Thermacell Radius is a small, portable, egg-shaped device that promises to create a zone of protection from mosquitoes. The device itself is a rechargeable pod that weighs less than 7 ounces, and it uses a small liquid repellent refill that should provide hours of coverage.
How does it work? The name says a lot in this case. “Therma” refers to the heat generated to vaporize a liquid solution in that swappable cartridge, “cell” pertains to how it gets its power from a rechargeable lithium-ion battery cell, and “Radius” is a nod to Thermacell’s claims of providing up to a 15-foot circle of mosquito-free protection.
The core function of the Thermacell Radius is to fire up a low power heating element to spread the chemical in the repellant.
Setup Image used with permission by copyright holder Setting up the Thermacell Radius was easy as could be: just remove the protective cap on the refill cartridge, open the magnetic cover of the Radius, drop the refill cartridge in, and close the lid.
Hit the power button to start. Thermacell says it will take about 15 minutes for the repellent to waft into the air and start repelling those pests. (Pressing the button twice will trigger auto shutoff after two hours.) Keep the device in one spot at the center of the action let it work its magic. The company says it’s effective to about 20 feet from the device.
Using Thermacell Radius I took the Thermacell Radius camping — be sure to check out our helpful camping hacks — and also tested it out at home, and it was about 15 minutes after powering it on that I started to notice we were all waving our arms around less and no longer slapping at ourselves.
Wary of a potential placebo effect, I asked others in our group if they noticed any difference, and in the end, we all agreed that it provided a noticeable reduction in mosquitoes.
Out in my backyard, the Radius also performed well. On one particularly buggy day, we were able to sit outside for hours and enjoy the warm evening without being ravaged by mosquitoes. I even noticed fewer bugs landing on our dogs, who generally present a bit of a bug buffet due to their thinner coats.
Does it smell or make noise? One of the selling features (or maybe two?) is that the Radius doesn’t give off any kind of smell. The liquid inside the refill cartridge uses metofluthrin as the active ingredient, which is a DEET-free, odorless chemical specifically created to battle mosquitos. It’s safe for humans and pets, but highly effective in repelling the bloodsuckers.
There are no fans inside the device and I did not hear any noise throughout my testing.
It was a nice experience having no wafting smoke, no stink, no buzzing fan noise, and no buzzing ZAP ! of an electrical element frying mosquitos.
Battery life and charging Thermacell says the battery should last about six-and-a-half hours on a full charge and I found that was accurate. Charging a fully drained Radius took an astonishing five hours, but you can leave it on while charging if you don’t mind a slower charging speed. That’s probably the device’s biggest downside — that it takes almost as long to charge it as it does to wear it out.
Our take I am happy to report that the Thermacell Radius is an effective mosquito repellent that performs way above any of those so-called ultrasonic mosquito repellents. Yes, you need to have a steady supply of refill cartridges to get through the summer, but you won’t waste anything as long as you use it outdoors and place it in a spot away from direct sunlight.
Is there a better alternative? To be honest, there are plenty of chemicals, zappers, bombs, oils, and repellents out there that all claim to have a lock on mosquitoes. User experience certainly varies. At the moment, I am not aware of a similar or better alternative, but if anyone out there has a recommendation for something else I should try and compare, I’d love to hear it.
Thermacell does offer mosquito repellers like the E55, which boasts a greater coverage area, and there’s also a more rugged moisture-proof cousin dubbed EX55, but the Radius offers a great balance of price, portability, eco-friendliness, battery life, and range.
Should I buy it? I can absolutely confirm this device works as advertised. If you are experiencing a surge in mosquitoes this season, I can definitely recommend the Thermacell Radius.
Editors' Recommendations How to create spooky Halloween effects with smart home lighting and sound How to save Ring Doorbell video without a subscription Google’s new Nest Cams save video clips without the need for a subscription Alarm.com Touchless Video Doorbell rings without actually being pressed These smart devices will help you stay cool without central air Product Reviews Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Two years after its introduction, we’re finally getting a proper update to what’s arguably Google’s best selling smart speaker. During today’s Made by Google event in New York City, the company unveiled it latest, budget offering in the Google Nest Mini.
A few changes have been made with this latest model, but don’t hold your breath for something substantially different, since it doesn’t deviate a lot from what we heard about in leaks and rumors.
A familiar look with minor changes Retaining the same puck design as before, the Nest Mini also bears the familiar fabric covering around the top of the smart speaker that made the original memorable. You also have the embedded LEDs that light up whenever the “Hey Google” phrase is spoken, in addition to the mute switch on its side.
News Everyone needs to drink more water. According to some reports, Americans are almost chronically dehydrated. While some people may find plain water just plain boring, "healthier" alternatives are often anything but. Others enjoy their water flavored and carbonated and favor devices like the SodaStream, which uses carbon dioxide (CO2) canisters. Now there's another alternative: Sparkel is a new beverage system that makes it possible to create fizzy, delicious drinks without the use of CO2 canisters.
Sparkel instead uses a "Sparkel sachet" that naturally generates CO2 gas in the drink. The Sparkel Carbonator is a combination of citric acid and sodium bicarbonate that generates CO2 gas through natural processes when placed inside a sealed container. The flavor molecules of the ingredients inside the Sparkel bind to the CO2 gas, and this gas is then cycled through the drink bottle to create your drink of choice.
Smart Home Black Friday is a great opportunity to land some savings on household appliances, and this year’s early Black Friday deals include a lot of great discounts on washer and dryer bundles. The best washing machines and the best dryers are made all the better when they come bundled together. We’ve tracked down the best washer and dryer bundles you can shop this Black Friday, with several different brands offering a range of features and capacities to choose from.
Best LG washer & dryer Black Friday deals LG is one of the most well-known names in electronics. It makes devices from TVs to smartphones, but its home appliances are perhaps its most impressive lineup. LG has a lot to offer when it comes to washer and dryer bundles. It makes a lot of different models of varying capacities, and it offers some of the most cutting edge washing and drying smart features as well.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
