Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Smart Home Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Thermomix TM6 cooking robot review: a countertop culinary instructor (and bartender too) By Erin Lawrence Close $1,499.00 20 different cooking functions in one device Easy to use Thousands of recipes available Nice big screen Automated cooking modes in addition to recipes Self-cleaning Pricey Yearly Cookidoo recipe subscription required We’ve all been there: You get a small appliance that seems like a good and useful product at the time, but it ends up sitting in a cupboard and never gets used after the initial excitement wears off. But now there’s a new gadget for the kitchen that promises to be much more than a one-task wonder. Meet the Thermomix TM6.
 This appliance is billed as kind of an ultimate all-in-one cooking robot, but some more cynical types might refer to it as a “food processor with extra steps.” So what is it, exactly, what can it really do, and is it actually useful? In this review, I’ll show you what it’s like to own one, how it integrates into your life, and our thoughts on if it’s actually worth it.
What is Thermomix? Setup What’s new? Cooking with Thermomix Our take Image used with permission by copyright holder What is Thermomix? Simply put, Thermomix, made by Vorwerk, is a kitchen appliance that looks like a giant food processor or blender. While Thermomix may look similar to other appliances, it’s nothing like them: the Thermomix TM6 has the ability to connect to thousands of online recipes using Wi-Fi and the Cookidoo app or website, and it will guide you through cooking them, measuring ingredients, and performing all the chopping, prep, and even the cooking in this one device. In all, the Thermomix TM6 is able to handle 20 different kitchen appliance functions.
Several special modes can also quickly automate common kitchen tasks. Egg mode can do easy soft or hard-boiled eggs. Kettle mode boils water, while the rice cooker mode makes fluffy rice easily. The rice cooker mode is actually my favorite way to make rice since it does such a good job, leaving it nice and grainy, perfectly cooked, and never sticky.
The appliance consists of a powered base and a lidded mixing bowl shaped like a pitcher with a sharp blade inside. There’s also what’s called the Varoma basket which sits on top of the lid. This 3-piece, two-layer steamer basket is used for steaming fish or vegetables, or even baking cakes. Another small steamer basket will sit inside the bowl and there’s also an included whip.
Setup Getting the TM6 set up is easy: Plug it in and turn it on. You’ll connect it to your home’s Wi-Fi network, and then you’ll need to sign into or sign up for a Cookidoo account ($50 per year) to access the online recipes.
When you’re ready, choose a recipe and start cooking.
What’s new? Thermomix TM5, left, and new TM6 on the right.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Anyone who’s familiar with Thermomix may wonder what’s new on the TM6 version, over the previous TM5. The upgraded TM6 has Wi-Fi connectivity (the previous version needed recipe “chips” installed), and a larger color screen, plus it now boasts a higher heat option and longer runtime.
Cooking with Thermomix Despite the somewhat overwhelming array of functions, the Thermomix is easy to use. Just choose a recipe, and the bot walks you through what to do; it handles the order of tasks, timing, all the measuring, stirring, speed, heat levels, and fine-tuning. You just add ingredients and follow its instructions.
I made about eight meals in the three weeks I spent with the machine, and perhaps the best way to help understand how it works is to walk you through a recipe.
Anyone who’s ever made risotto from scratch knows it’s hard; it requires constant stirring and careful attention. For that reason, Thermomix risotto is somewhat legendary because it’s able to achieve the perfect risotto velvety texture while staying a bit toothy.
The Thermomix will have you freshly grate parmesan by dropping a hunk into the bowl and turning it on high power for a few seconds. Far from turning the cheese to mush, it is able to finely shred it.
The cheese gets set aside and then the Wi-Fi-connected recipe will tell you the next steps and measurements. After you add one quartered onion and a couple of cloves of garlic, the machine will prompt you to put the lid on and turn the dial. The TM6 first chops and then sautées the vegetables in the bowl. With the aliums sufficiently sweated, the TM6 prompts you to add water or stock, which it will heat for a few minutes, then pause and ask you to add the rice. It will then heat the broth, and stir the dish constantly to get that creamy perfection. In about 30 minutes you have legit restaurant-quality risotto.
Image used with permission by copyright holder I made a steamed fish dish that was cooked with a side of broccoli and a beautiful spicy cashew sauce. I also tried a butter chicken dish. I’ve never made butter chicken from scratch, thinking it was too complicated, but the Thermomix TM6 walked me through it, chopping, stirring, cooking, and simmering it. The butter chicken was creamy-tangy and quite easy (and I served it with a fresh batch of fluffy rice using that rice cooker mode), plus I made pretzel buns, too. The machine makes the dough for you, and you pop the buns into your oven to finish them.
It’s a great way to bring family recipes into the modern era.
Reading through the Cookidoo app one evening looking for inspiration, I found a blackberry gin cocktail called the Blackberry Bramble. It’s pretty fun to learn that this device can not only make dinner but cocktails, too, turning your Thermomix bowl into a de-facto cocktail shaker. With the addition of some ice, gin, fresh blackberries, and simple syrup, the TM6 whipped up a beautiful violet sipper that was a fun change from our usual glass of wine.
Create and save your own recipes One of the newer features Thermomix TM6 has is the ability to create your own recipes using the Cookidoo app. You can input your own ingredients and measurements, then lay out the steps. The TM6 will then execute them in order. It’s a great way to add family recipes and bring them into the modern era.
Included accessories.
Image used with permission by copyright holder A kitchen robot that cleans itself All the parts of the Thermomix are dishwasher safe, but one of the easiest ways to clean it is to add soap and hot water, then run the motor for 10 seconds. There’s also a longer more automated cleaning cycle called Pre-Clean.
Our take The new Thermomix TM6 is a capable, helpful kitchen device. Despite its larger footprint, it can actually replace a lot of small appliances (goodbye blender, food processor, grater, kettle, and rice cooker) and automate many kitchen and cooking chores. Plus, you can use it to cook a dish or a full meal, and not have to worry about overcooking something because it’s programmed to make everything with the touch of a chef.
On the downside, it’s quite expensive (ringing in at $1,499), but when you realize it can replace literally half a dozen other appliances (or prevent you from needing to buy them in the first place) it seems like it can more than pay for itself quickly.
Are there any alternatives? The short answer is: There are few alternatives. While the Julia cooking robot was touted by manufacturer CookingPal back at CES 2020 as a similar product, it seems never to have launched under that name, but the “Multo” by CookingPal is for sale on Amazon at $1,499 (and looks suspiciously identical to the original Julia version). The Cuisinart Cooking Food Processor is also available for $699. As I’ve not had the pleasure of reviewing either I can’t say if these are indeed worthy competitors.
How long will it last? The device seems sturdy and well-built, but Thermomix includes a two-year warranty for residential use and a 30-day money-back guarantee if you aren’t satisfied with the product.
Should you buy it? If you’re looking to learn more about cooking and do more food preparation at home without taking cooking classes, the Thermomix TM6 is a major gateway to culinary success in my opinion. You could also check out our list of smart ovens if you’re not convinced.
Thermomix TM6 is available from Thermomix’s website.
Product Reviews Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Black Friday is a great opportunity to land some savings on household appliances, and this year’s early Black Friday deals include a lot of great discounts on washer and dryer bundles. The best washing machines and the best dryers are made all the better when they come bundled together. We’ve tracked down the best washer and dryer bundles you can shop this Black Friday, with several different brands offering a range of features and capacities to choose from.
Best LG washer & dryer Black Friday deals LG is one of the most well-known names in electronics. It makes devices from TVs to smartphones, but its home appliances are perhaps its most impressive lineup. LG has a lot to offer when it comes to washer and dryer bundles. It makes a lot of different models of varying capacities, and it offers some of the most cutting edge washing and drying smart features as well.
Smart Home Matter is arguably the biggest thing to happen to smart homes since their inception. The interoperability feature lets devices from different ecosystems interact with each other, giving you the freedom to shop for your favorite products regardless of manufacturer. Unfortunately, not all devices have rolled out support for Matter – and not all of them will.
Some notable products support Matter as of today, although dozens more are expected to add the functionality in the coming months. For now, here are the 11 best smart home products that support Matter. For a full list, head over to the official Matter website.
Deals There's never been a better time to spring for sustainable and portable power options, especially with BLUETTI offering some great Black Friday deals, plus an exclusive discount -- which we'll tell you more about in a second. These deals also coincide with a brand new release from the brand, with the debut of the BLUETTI AC200L portable solar generator and power station. It features a 2400-watt output, 2,048-watt-hour capacity, and a 1,200-watt solar input for speedy charging. It's a sleek newcomer that can be boosted to 3,600 watts in a PowerLifting mode for your extensive yet adaptable energy needs. More on that new station and the great deals below.
For a limited time, from November 17 until November 30, Digital Trends readers can use the coupon code DT100 at checkout to receive an extra $20 off. Yes, that code stacks with existing Black Friday deals.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
