Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Smart Home Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? ThermoPro TP25 thermometer: tangled up in meat By Joni Blecher Close $60.00 Delivers the perfect temp for meat, poultry, and fish every time App is intuitive and easy to setup Can test multiple proteins simultaneously Alerts you when food is cooked to perfection Color-coded probes makes it easy to identify what you're cooking in the app The metal probes get super hot when in use Nothing says summer quite like grilling in the yard, on a large terrace, or at a campsite. There are many grills and BBQs loaded with smart tech to help you master this favorite summer pastime, but the one tool you really need to deliver perfectly cooked food is a meat thermometer. Sure, you can use the old palm trick, where you press the Mount of Venus on your palm with two fingers and do the same to the meat. Somewhere in that translation, the meat is supposed to be cooked to perfection. The more technical approach is to use something like the ThermoPro TP25 500FT Bluetooth Meat Thermometer with 4-Probes.
Temps anyone can see A pretty smart cooking app What’s for dinner? Everything! Our take Temps anyone can see The ThermoPro thermometer can measure the temps of four different food items simultaneously. It comes with four color-coded probes for measuring the temp of what you’re cooking. One side of the probe plugs into the corresponding colored port of the unit, and the other goes into the meat. The temperature then appears on the corresponding square on the ThermoPro’s display. This information also corresponds to the data you’ll find on your phone in the ThermoPro BBQ app.
Image used with permission by copyright holder We’re getting ahead of ourselves. The setup of the thermometer is straightforward and fast. The only thing that takes any real time is charging the thermometer, and you do that using the micro-USB to USB charger included in the package. While it’s charging, it’s a good time to download the ThermoPro BBQ app from the iOS or Android store. It’s easy to search for it in the app store or scan the QR code on the back of the unit. Once installed, ensure Bluetooth is activated on your phone, press the Bluetooth button on the back of the device and it connects almost instantaneously. We were all impressed with the seamlessness of the whole experience.
Is a smart cooking thermometer worth it? The best meat thermometers The thermometer itself sports a backlit display (that you can turn on and off), so you can still see what’s happening in the dark. There’s also a metal hook on the back of the display, so you can attach it easily to the handle of a grill or use the two included probe clips to attach it to a nearby post.
A pretty smart cooking app Most people who know me, know I’m not always a fan of having a corresponding cooking app.
 In those instances, it’s usually because the app feels like an unnecessary add-on. The ThermoPro TP25 BBQ app is a lesson in what one of these apps should do, and it does it well. We already mentioned the easy setup, but it’s also extremely intuitive to use, and it’s particularly helpful for people who know next to nothing about grilling as well as those who do — no small feat.
It’s particularly helpful for people who know next to nothing about grilling.
The color-coded probes aren’t just for making it easy to connect to the thermometer. They also correspond with the app, which is where you select what that probe is measuring. The app has all the preset USDA-approved temperatures for poultry, beef, veal, pork, beef, ham, fish, lamb, and turkey. Where appropriate it also offers options for r are, medium rare, medium, medium well, and well done. Once you insert the probes, select what you’re cooking in the app and the level of doneness. If you’re a grilling pro, you can also create profiles to set your own temps and an ambient temp for keeping your grill, oven, or smoker within a certain range.
When the food you’re cooking gets within range, it will alert you with a pre-temp alarm in case you need to make any preparations for removing the meat. The phone app also has an alarm (that you can turn on/off) that sounds when the meat is done. If the phone and the thermometer are going to be nearby to each other, we recommend silencing the alarm on the phone since the thermometer has one too. It gets to be a bit chaotic if they both go off near each other. Even if you turn off the alarm on the phone, you’ll still get a notification on your phone.
What’s for dinner? Everything! Testing the ThermoPro TP25 was more fun than expected. To test the TP25, we decided to cook a variety of proteins on a Hibachi grill because it’s one of the more uneven cooking surfaces. So much depends on the coal’s heat and meat placement. We got salmon patties, steaks, pork chops, and chicken kabobs and invited our favorite grillers over to see what they thought of the process.
The ThermoPro claims to have a range of 500 feet — and it really does! We placed the food on the grill and didn’t insert the probes until we flipped the meat. At that point, we could identify what we were cooking and the level of doneness in the app. First, we were impressed that the temp on the ThermoPro and the app were in sync, that hasn’t always been the case with meat thermometers we’ve tested in the past. We appreciated that the temps were different for everything we were cooking. Finally, the device touts that it maintains its Bluetooth connectivity for up to 500 feet, and it did. One of the issues with testing Bluetooth-connected apps and devices is distance — the phone gets out of range, and the connection is lost. We’re happy to report that didn’t happen.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The only issue we had with the thermometer was in regards to the probes. The probes are metal, so when you remove them from the meat, they are extremely hot to the touch. To be fair, a huge warning sticker on the probe says, “Always remove probes with gloves.” The other challenge we encountered was that monitoring the temp of four different items on a tiny hibachi grill got a little messy — it was easy to tangle up the probes with each other even though each has a plastic winder to avoid this situation. We expect this wouldn’t be as big of an issue with a larger cooking surface or with smokers.
In the end, when we served the food, one of our guests said they were “dazzled” and thought the meat was cooked perfectly. We were impressed with how easy it was to use and that it did cook everything to perfection — something we’ve always found challenging. I particularly enjoyed seeing meat that didn’t have a bunch of cuts in it to see if “it was done.” Our take We were impressed with the ThermoPro TP25 and the corresponding BBQ app — both did what they’re supposed to and did it well. We were impressed with how easy it was to use, and it was the first experience we had grilling where the meat was cooked perfectly on the first try. The four probes are probably more than most people will use, but then again, you don’t have to use all of them every time. In that way, we do appreciate the flexibility the unit provides. People who do a lot of smoking of meat and grilling will probably get the most use out of it, and it’s a pretty inexpensive way to turn your barbecue into a smart grill.
Is there a better alternative? There’s a large selection of Wi-Fi meat thermometers , and often the Meater Plus is at the top of that list. That model is in the same price range, but can only do one piece of meat at a time and is probably better suited for a stove. There’s also the Inkbird IBT-4XC , which has four probes as well, costs a bit less, but doesn’t have the range.
How long will it last? A meat thermometer should last at least a couple of years if you take care of it, which means you should check it and re-calibrate it every six months to ensure it’s in good working order.
Should I buy it? At $60, it’s a bit more expensive than the average thermometer, but it’s not the most spendy Bluetooth meat thermometer either. You’re getting four thermometers in one, so it’s a deal if you think about it that way. This model is a great option if you’re looking for a gift for the grill master in your life. It is worth every penny if you want to take the guesswork out of grilling. No one has ever been “dazzled” by my grilling capabilities before.
Editors' Recommendations Best wireless smart meat thermometers The best digital and smart thermometers for 2021 Your steaks will love being poked by Whirlpool’s smart thermometer Product Reviews Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Black Friday is a great opportunity to land some savings on household appliances, and this year’s early Black Friday deals include a lot of great discounts on washer and dryer bundles. The best washing machines and the best dryers are made all the better when they come bundled together. We’ve tracked down the best washer and dryer bundles you can shop this Black Friday, with several different brands offering a range of features and capacities to choose from.
Best LG washer & dryer Black Friday deals LG is one of the most well-known names in electronics. It makes devices from TVs to smartphones, but its home appliances are perhaps its most impressive lineup. LG has a lot to offer when it comes to washer and dryer bundles. It makes a lot of different models of varying capacities, and it offers some of the most cutting edge washing and drying smart features as well.
Smart Home Matter is arguably the biggest thing to happen to smart homes since their inception. The interoperability feature lets devices from different ecosystems interact with each other, giving you the freedom to shop for your favorite products regardless of manufacturer. Unfortunately, not all devices have rolled out support for Matter – and not all of them will.
Some notable products support Matter as of today, although dozens more are expected to add the functionality in the coming months. For now, here are the 11 best smart home products that support Matter. For a full list, head over to the official Matter website.
Deals There's never been a better time to spring for sustainable and portable power options, especially with BLUETTI offering some great Black Friday deals, plus an exclusive discount -- which we'll tell you more about in a second. These deals also coincide with a brand new release from the brand, with the debut of the BLUETTI AC200L portable solar generator and power station. It features a 2400-watt output, 2,048-watt-hour capacity, and a 1,200-watt solar input for speedy charging. It's a sleek newcomer that can be boosted to 3,600 watts in a PowerLifting mode for your extensive yet adaptable energy needs. More on that new station and the great deals below.
For a limited time, from November 17 until November 30, Digital Trends readers can use the coupon code DT100 at checkout to receive an extra $20 off. Yes, that code stacks with existing Black Friday deals.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
