Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Smart Home Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Tineco Pure One S15 PET vacuum review: A chore no more By Jon Bitner Close $500.00 Cordless design Included docking station Versatile add-ons Incredible cleaning power Short runtime Vacuums have seen heaps of innovation over the past few years, with robot vacuums, dual-purpose mop vacuums, and cordless vacuums all jockeying for your attention. The Tineco Pure One S15 PET falls into the latter category, serving as a cordless vacuum that’s angled toward pet owners — although it’s an easy recommendation for every household.
Built for everything Sleek display and iLoop technology Five-stage filtration for a fresher home Our take With a sleek design, multiple nozzle attachments, and impressive cleaning power, the Tineco Pure One S15 PET is a versatile machine that makes it easy to capture every speck of dust from every nook and cranny. Its battery life leaves a bit to be desired, but that’s a small knock on an otherwise feature-complete vacuum.
Best cordless vacuum deals: Get a Dyson-style vac for $89 How often should you replace your robot vacuum? How to fix a robot vacuum that stops moving Built for everything Jon Bitner / Digital Trends The Pure One S15 PET requires just a few minutes of assembly before you’re ready to roll. Simply click on the dual-tube assembly, pick your nozzle, and you’re off to the races. It also comes with a nifty charging dock to hold the Pure One S15 when not in use, along with all its attachments.
These attachments are a huge part of why this Tineco is such a success. Not only does it come with a standard vacuum attachment, but there’s also a dusting brush, crevice tool, and mini power brush — which is essentially a smaller version of the standard vacuum for hard-to-reach spaces or fabric covered with pet fur. These all work exactly as intended, with no loss of suction across the entire repertoire.
The Pure One S15’s portable, cordless design makes vacuuming a breeze.
The standard vacuum attachment is a particular standout, as it’s engineered with ZeroTangle Technology, ensuring no hair — or other debris — gets caught in the brushes. I’ve been using the Tineco extensively for the past few weeks in a household filled with long-haired humans and molting doggos, and I’ve yet to have anything get trapped in the brushes. That’s a marked improvement from my old vacuum and legion of robot vacuums — which require constant detangling and maintenance.
The versatility and thoughtful design don’t end there. Tineco also gives you the option to turn the Pure One S15 PET into a handheld vacuum. With the press of a button, you can easily remove the dual-tube assembly and transform the product into a handheld powerhouse. Cleaning the interior of your car, getting crumbs out of couch cushions, or sucking up whatever’s lurking under your fridge is remarkably easy.
The Pure One S15’s portable, cordless design makes vacuuming a breeze regardless of how you’re using it, although it can get a bit heavy during extended use. The battery pack and dustbin are located at the back of the vacuum near your wrist, which means twisting, turning, or raising the nozzle above your head can be tiresome for marathon cleaning sessions. It’s a minor complaint, but one that’ll be noticeable if you’re coming from a traditional vacuum (which carries its weight near the bottom) or some other stick vacuums.
The LED display is simple, elegant, and effective.
But the Tineco Pure One S15 PET isn’t built for marathon cleaning sessions. In fact, turned up to maximum power, the device only runs for about 10 minutes. That can be substantially improved by leaving it on Auto , which will detect the appropriate amount of suction for the job at hand and automatically change power as needed. Using this, you can easily get up to 40 minutes of runtime.
Sleek display and iLoop technology Jon Bitner / Digital Trends The Pure One S15’s ability to modulate its suction is a result of the iLoop Smart Dust Sensor, which detects the levels of dirt and dust to quickly adjust its power output. You’ll know it’s working by sound alone (the vacuum is remarkably quiet unless it’s detected lots of debris), but there’s also a visual indicator built into a futuristic-looking LED display. This will fluctuate from red to blue as a surface becomes clean, letting you know if you should give an area a second pass.
This LED display is also where you’ll find the current battery level or other notifications. Quite frankly, it’s a beautiful display. Simple, elegant, and effective, the LED screen makes the Tineco feel like the premium, $500 vacuum that it is.
Five-stage filtration for a fresher home Image used with permission by copyright holder A vacuum can look good and offer versatile form factors, but all is for naught if it’s unsuccessful in cleaning your home. And while the S15 is both stylish and versatile, its cleaning prowess is arguably more impressive. Dirt is sent through a five-stage filtration process, which includes a mesh filter, prefilter, and HEPA filter, which successfully captures every bit of dust that comes barreling through its nozzles.
Once you’re done cleaning for the day, the dustbin features a contactless dump lever that’ll instantly empty all its contents. This works surprisingly well, although if you overpack the bin with dog fur, it’ll get clumped and become less likely to work. In those instances, you’ll either have to gently tap the side of the bin or pull out the dirt yourself.
Regular maintenance is as easy as ensuring all filters are free of dust, with the mesh filter, prefilter, and HEPA filter all being easily removable for a quick cleaning. There’s also a fairly basic smartphone app that’ll help keep track of all your cleaning.
Our take The Tineco Pure One S15 PET is the only vacuum you’ll ever need. Powerful, versatile, and wireless for added convenience, it’ll turn this chore into the easiest task on your to-do list. Its battery might be a bit weak for larger households, but that’s a small complaint about an otherwise feature-complete product.
Is there a better alternative? The Tineco Pure One S15 PET is arguably one of the best cordless vacuums on the market. You can upgrade to an LCD screen and voice commands with the Pure One S15 Pro, or you can check out high-end models from Dyson like the V8 Absolute.
 You’ll also want to peruse our list of the best vacuums for some other ideas — although the Tineco Pure One S15 PET should be near the top of your list.
How long will it last? Your purchase comes with a two-year warranty, although regular maintenance and care should allow the Tineco to last much longer. When treated with care, we wouldn’t be surprised to see this product last for a very, very long time.
Should you buy it? Yes. Its price tag is a bit hefty, but there’s no doubt that you’re getting what you pay for. The vacuum is so easy to use and so versatile that I’ve found myself vacuuming more than I would with a lesser product. So if you need the motivation to get up and clean, the Pure One S15 PET is the answer.
Editors' Recommendations The SwitchBot Mini Robot Vacuum K10+ is designed for cramped rooms and tight spaces Cordless vs. robot vacuums: which one should you buy? Matter adds support for fridges, air purifiers, robot vacuums, and more with massive 1.2 update Ecovacs Deebot X2 Omni vs. iRobot Roomba Combo j9+: Which premium robot vacuum is best? The best October Prime Day robot vacuum deals happening now Appliances Product Reviews Smart Home Reviews Smart Home The Ecovacs Deebot X2 Omni was officially revealed today, showing off a bold square design, increased suction, and retractable mops so it can vacuum and mop in a single run. It’s a big step up from the old X1 Omni, and it’s a solid addition to the Deebot lineup -- which already includes the well-reviewed T20 Omni.
As one of the most expensive robot vacuums in the Deebot catalog, the X2 Omni is packed with premium features. This includes an impressive 8,000Pa of suction, two rotating mopping pads that apply pressure to the floor while in use, and improved navigation and mapping abilities thanks to a dual-laser lidar system.
Smart Home Robot vacuum maker iRobot recently pulled back the curtain on the Combo j5+ lineup, and today its catalog is growing yet again with the reveal of the iRobot Roomba Combo j9+ Robot Vacuum and Mop. If you don’t need a mop, a standard j9+ robot vacuum is also up for grabs -- featuring the same tech powering the Roomba Combo j9+, but dropping its mopping skills and gaining a reduced price tag.
Unlike most robot vacuum and mop combos, the iRobot Roomba Combo j9+ uses a swinging mophead capable of retracting to the top of its chassis. Other products simply raise the mophead up a few millimeters, which is only enough clearance for low-pile carpets. This makes the Combo j9+ compelling for homes with both hardwood floors and high-pile carpets, allowing it to clean all surfaces without dragging a dirty mop across your “clean” carpets.
Smart Home Roborock revealed the Q5 Pro and Q8 Max robot vacuums during IFA 2023. Both are midrange products arriving in October. Alongside the two robovacs, Roborock also announced the Dyad Pro Combo stick vacuum and the Zeo One -- an all-in-one washer/dryer combo.
The two robot vacuums are the most exciting of the four product announcements, as they make big improvements to the existing Roborock lineup while also carrying reasonable price tags. The Q5 Pro is billed as the “entry level” option for the Q Series, and it’s equipped with a DuoRoller Brush to eliminate hair tangles, supports up to 5,500 Pa of suction, and mops in the direction of your floor seams to optimize its cleaning performance.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
