Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Smart Home Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Trifo Ollie vacuum review: pet-friendly performance By Jon Bitner Close $300.00 Affordable price Easy to use software Tons of additional features Eye-catching design Creates loud and high-pitched sounds Some features seem underdeveloped Mapping and navigation issues Ollie is a robot vacuum from Trifo that’s designed for pet owners. Specifically, it’s built to pull loose fur out of every nook and cranny in your home, using a combination of powerful suction and unique add-on accessories. It also comes with a few pet-friendly features, such as a laser pointer to keep your babies entertained and ease their vacuum-induced anxiety.
Simple setup, intuitive app Loaded with additional features Pet hair, beware Our take Considering it costs just $300, Ollie performs up to its price tag. It suffers from navigation and mapping issues, and some of its pet-friendly features seem half-baked, but pet owners should definitely include Ollie in their robot vacuum search.
The SwitchBot Mini Robot Vacuum K10+ is designed for cramped rooms and tight spaces Best cordless vacuum deals: Get a Dyson-style vac for $89 How often should you replace your robot vacuum? Simple setup, intuitive app Image used with permission by copyright holder Getting Ollie acquainted with your home is a painless process. After finding a place for its dock and installing the accompanying smartphone app, you’ll be able to get Ollie set up in minutes. From the app, you can start your first cleaning — and this initial cleaning will map out your home for subsequent runs.
Setup takes no more than a half hour, and operation is a breeze thanks to the smartphone app.
Once this process is completed (it took about a half-hour for my tiny condo), you’ll be able to dive into all the customization options offered on the Trifo app. You can change suction levels, designate specific cleaning areas, set up restricted zones, check on past cleaning stats, or view Ollie’s maintenance history. You can even prepare a cleaning schedule, having Ollie clean while you’re at work.
The app gives you remarkable control over Ollie without feeling bloated. Intuitive menus, a minimalistic UI, and a home screen that shows just the essentials make this a robot vacuum anyone can use without hassle. And if you want to activate its advanced features, they’re just a screen tap away. For just $300, I was impressed by the premium software.
Loaded with additional features Jon Bitner / Digital Trends Ollie is a robot vacuum first and foremost, but Trifo decided to bundle in a ridiculous number of extra features. These are largely gimmicks, and most of them don’t seem nearly as well designed as the smartphone app or actual vacuum. For example, Ollie comes with a laser pointer attachment that clips on the side of the vacuum — but it has a penchant for falling off while in use and needs to be manually activated. It’s a great toy for my dog (who thinks he’s a cat), but it would have been great if Trifo managed to automate its performance.
The clip-on attachment tends to fall off, making the laser pointer and air freshener unreliable.
The same goes for the air freshener, which is contained in the same clip-on gadget as the laser pointer. When Olli is in action, the air coming out the back is supposed to waft over the air freshener stick and eliminate odors. But because the clip-on attachment tends to fall off or spin out of place, I’ve never noticed fresher air after an Ollie run.
Rounding out the list of extras is a true-color camera to capture video, two-way audio, and motion detection. These features work much better than the above, and pet owners will probably get some good mileage out of them. They don’t quite work as well as a dedicated indoor camera, but they’re a nice bonus for folks who don’t already have the tech.
Pet hair, beware Jon Bitner / Digital Trends Pet hair is the bane of any pet owner’s existence, and Ollie’s central purpose is to remove all traces of it from your home. The robot vacuum comes preinstalled with the standard rotating brush, but there’s the option to install the Pet Hair Extractor — a device that allows for 4,000Pa suction and easier access to pet hair lurking on your floors.
Installing the attachment is remarkably simple. After powering off Ollie and flipping it on its back, all you need to do is push a quick-release lever, remove the rotating brush, and clip in the Pet Hair Extractor. The device is tangle-free and is intended to offer increased suction to pull up every bit of pet fur in its path.
Pet owners with hardwood floors will love the Pet Hair Extractor.
Unfortunately, my results with the attachment were mixed. Testing revealed that it worked best on laminate or tile floors, whereas carpeted areas still had fur embedded even after several passes with Ollie. Because there is minimal oscillating action with this attachment, fur that’s been trampled into your carpets simply can’t be removed — even when pulling at maximum suction.
However, pet owners with hardwood throughout their homes will love the device. Not only does it work wonders on loose fur, but there’s literally no maintenance required for the device. And since the Pet Hair Extractor doesn’t have a brush, there’s nothing to detangle or clean. Just empty the dustbin after each cleaning, and you’re ready to roll.
Since my home is largely carpeted, I stuck with the standard rotating brush. Each cleaning resulted in a dustbin full of fur (gross), which is easy to empty without getting your hands dirty. That’s the only routine maintenance you’ll need to perform after each cleaning. You’ll periodically want to check the roller brush for hair accumulation and clean off a few internal filters, but Ollie is surprisingly self-sufficient.
Regardless of which attachment you’re using, Ollie does a solid job cleaning your entire home. I did run into a few navigation and mapping issues (such as getting confused on its way back to the dock or missing a small portion of my kitchen), but I found that simply remapping the room restored Ollie’s sense of direction.
Our take Although Ollie isn’t perfect, it is still a great choice for pet owners on a budget. The Pet Hair Extractor is great for maintenance-free operation on hardwood floors, the simple app makes it easy to schedule your cleanings, and all the quirky extras make it stand out in the crowded mid-range marketplace. If you’re not a pet owner, however, consider another option — your $300 is paying for a lot of features you simply don’t need.
Are there better alternatives? Yes, but they tend to carry hefty price tags. The iRobot Roomba s9+ is arguably the best overall robot vacuum, but you’ll pay nearly $1,000 for its performance. If you don’t need all the pet-specific features, we found the Yeedi Vac Max to offer similar performance and pricing.
How long will it last? Trifo offers a one-year limited warranty for the product, although we’d expect it to last much longer. The total lifespan of the device will largely come down to how often you perform maintenance and how frequently you vacuum.
Should you buy it? If you’re a pet owner on a budget, yes. If you’re not a pet owner, consider checking out some other robot vacuums that offer a similar price tag but don’t come bundled with features you won’t use. Our roundup of the best robot vacuums is a great place to start.
Editors' Recommendations Best robot mops of 2023 The best robot vacuums for 2023 Cordless vs. robot vacuums: which one should you buy? Matter adds support for fridges, air purifiers, robot vacuums, and more with massive 1.2 update How to fix a robot vacuum that stops moving Appliances Product Reviews Robot Vacuums Smart Home Reviews Smart Home The Ecovacs Deebot X2 Omni and iRobot Roomba Combo j9+ are two of the newest robot vacuums on the market. Offering not just the ability to vacuum and mop, but to also empty their dustbins, they’re two of the best robot vacuums money can buy. But which one is a better fit for your home? From vacuuming prowess and mopping skills to additional features and pricing, here’s a look at how the X2 Omni and Combo j9+ compare.
Pricing and availability Smart Home Cleaning a home can be tedious, especially if you live somewhere that has a lot of pollen, sand, or dust; it's so easy to accumulate any of them if you don't vacuum or clean up regularly. It's often no fault of our own, either; with busy lives, even folks who work from home might have a hard time picking up a vacuum and doing some cleaning. Luckily, there is a solution in the form of Robot vacuums, and while they're ordinarily quite expensive, Amazon's Prime Big Deal Days 2023 event has lots of great robot vacuum deals you can take advantage of right now.
Not only will it help you with keeping your home clean, but you can actually get some big savings by grabbing something now, and you likely don't even have to wait until Prime Day itself to see the best deals. Even better, it's not only Amazon that is offering great deals and, in fact, we're seeing some excellent Prime Day deals on robot vacuums from various retailers. There are even a lot of great Prime Day TV deals you can grab, and even some substantial discounts on the best smart home devices on the market. Whatever it is, you'll likely find something to make your life easier during Prime Day in October.
Today's best Prime Day robot vacuum deals iHome Juno Robot Vacuum — $99, was $199 Smart Home The Ecovacs Deebot X2 Omni was officially revealed today, showing off a bold square design, increased suction, and retractable mops so it can vacuum and mop in a single run. It’s a big step up from the old X1 Omni, and it’s a solid addition to the Deebot lineup -- which already includes the well-reviewed T20 Omni.
As one of the most expensive robot vacuums in the Deebot catalog, the X2 Omni is packed with premium features. This includes an impressive 8,000Pa of suction, two rotating mopping pads that apply pressure to the floor while in use, and improved navigation and mapping abilities thanks to a dual-laser lidar system.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
