Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Smart Home Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? WEGYM Rally X3 Pro review: a data-rich exercise routine By Joni Blecher Close $249.99 Long battery life Provides lots of data Large variety of workouts in the app Access to workouts doesn't cost extra Can be cumbersome to use Expensive Earlier this year, I tried WeGym smart resistance bands, and while I loved the concept, I thought the product could use some tweaks. I could see from the updated app that change was on the way, and I was excited when the new Rally X3 Pro smart resistance bands arrived at my door a few months later.
WEGYM Rally X3 Pro: same functionality, improved design Syncing the WEGYM Rally X3 Pro with your phone Working out with the WEGYM Rally X3 Pro How smart is this workout? WEGYM Rally X3 Pro: same functionality, improved design Image used with permission by copyright holder There’s not a lot you can do to change how resistance bands look, but there were some noticeable enhancements. First, the orange and black color scheme has been replaced with a slick black and gray one (there are also available in Bordeaux and black and dark green and black). You still get the same accessories two wristbands, two ankle bands, adjustable resistance bands with sensors, and door and object anchors. At the top of one of the resistance bands is a touchscreen LCD display. This addition is by far our favorite. What’s nice about it is that you can track your workout on this display. Even if you don’t have your phone with the app nearby, you can still see your progress.
The app stores all your workout data, but you don’t need to be synced up to see how many reps you’ve completed.
You’ll find Settings (language and turning on/off voice), Calibration, Brightness (adjust the LCD display), My Data (calories burned, workout length, average/max weight), and Training. Select the Training option when you’re ready to start your workout, and then it tracks how many reps and at what weight and calories burned.
Syncing the WEGYM Rally X3 Pro with your phone There have been a few app updates since I last reviewed these and they are welcome enhancements. It’s got a sleeker look and navigation is much easier — more on that later. The good news is that even though the app has been updated and has automatically updated on my phone, my data from the previous model was still in the app. The bad news is that adding the new bands to my app was a bit challenging. However, a simple uninstall and reinstall of the app did the trick, and my data was still available. Again, when I logged into my account, the data was still intact. Speaking of logging in, you can use Google and Facebook , and you can now also use Apple — a nice addition.
The app has a cleaner look, and it’s easy to jump into a workout from the home screen. You can either create an exercise plan, pick a workout the app thinks you might like, or choose an area (health improvement, shaping, core, freestyle, or strength) or body part you want to focus on, and it will serve up exercise routines. Each routine tells you how long it should take and approximately how many calories it should burn. Routines also last anywhere between five minutes to more than half an hour. The app will record your progress.
Working out with the WEGYM Rally X3 Pro Image used with permission by copyright holder When you’re ready to work out, select a video, connect the correct pieces to the resistance band, and press play. The videos take a minute or so to load — that’s plenty of time to make sure your equipment is well-situated and you’ve got some water. The workouts begin and end with a warmup and some stretching. Before you do each exercise, you can watch a person performing it so you know what to do. There is enough time between sets to make any adjustments to the band placements, and there is about a 20- to 30-second break between sets.
You’ll get notes on your performance while you work out; some are quite encouraging, and others not so much.
How smart are the Rally X3 Pro bands? Well, they do know when you’re not keeping up with the video and will tell you, “You’re losing the pace.” On the other hand, if you’re performing the exercises well and in time with the video, they’ll provide some encouragement and say, “Hang in there, victory is just around the corner.” If you’re performing the exercise incorrectly, it will let you know that too and point out what you’re doing incorrectly so you can adjust your form. I never could adjust my form in time to still stay in speed, but it still counted how many times I did a specific movement.
Once you complete a workout, you get stats on your performance and some coach suggestions. You can even share a snapshot of your workout with anyone. The app will also provide options for your next workout. The routines are solid; however, working with the bands can be a bit cumbersome at first. They are heavier than typical resistance bands, and the adjustable resistance weights can get in the way if you keep them at the lowest weight setting. That said, it is possible to get a solid full-body workout in your home or on the road.
Image used with permission by copyright holder How smart is this workout? There is definitely an interest in smart exercise equipment , and the devices are improving. There’s everything from exercise bikes to rowing machines to smart mirror workouts. The Rally X3 Pro resistance bands are one of the more portable solutions that can become more challenging as you get stronger. The latest model has noticeable changes that do make a difference: the sensors work better, the data tracking is much more accurate, and the adjustable resistance weights are secure.
At $250, the bands are less expensive than a home gym system that’s designed to provide a full-body workout. One big plus is that there is no subscription fee required to access workouts.
However, one of the nice things about resistance bands is that they’re fairly affordable (typically under $50 for a robust set) and highly portable, making them great for working out while on the road. It’s true that you can take the Rally X3 Pro resistance bands on the road (they even have a travel bag), but they will take up the space of a couple of pairs of ladies shoes in a suitcase.
I do like the Rally X3 Pro and the multitude of exercises these resistance bands provide. You really can get a full-body workout and constantly switch up your routine, but they’re still a bit spendy. I get why they are expensive — there are a lot of smarts in the bands and the app, and they do work well together. If you know people who travel a lot and want to commit to a solid workout regimen, these would help them get the job done on the road and provide all the data they need.
Product Reviews Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Black Friday is a great opportunity to land some savings on household appliances, and this year’s early Black Friday deals include a lot of great discounts on washer and dryer bundles. The best washing machines and the best dryers are made all the better when they come bundled together. We’ve tracked down the best washer and dryer bundles you can shop this Black Friday, with several different brands offering a range of features and capacities to choose from.
Best LG washer & dryer Black Friday deals LG is one of the most well-known names in electronics. It makes devices from TVs to smartphones, but its home appliances are perhaps its most impressive lineup. LG has a lot to offer when it comes to washer and dryer bundles. It makes a lot of different models of varying capacities, and it offers some of the most cutting edge washing and drying smart features as well.
Smart Home Matter is arguably the biggest thing to happen to smart homes since their inception. The interoperability feature lets devices from different ecosystems interact with each other, giving you the freedom to shop for your favorite products regardless of manufacturer. Unfortunately, not all devices have rolled out support for Matter – and not all of them will.
Some notable products support Matter as of today, although dozens more are expected to add the functionality in the coming months. For now, here are the 11 best smart home products that support Matter. For a full list, head over to the official Matter website.
Deals There's never been a better time to spring for sustainable and portable power options, especially with BLUETTI offering some great Black Friday deals, plus an exclusive discount -- which we'll tell you more about in a second. These deals also coincide with a brand new release from the brand, with the debut of the BLUETTI AC200L portable solar generator and power station. It features a 2400-watt output, 2,048-watt-hour capacity, and a 1,200-watt solar input for speedy charging. It's a sleek newcomer that can be boosted to 3,600 watts in a PowerLifting mode for your extensive yet adaptable energy needs. More on that new station and the great deals below.
For a limited time, from November 17 until November 30, Digital Trends readers can use the coupon code DT100 at checkout to receive an extra $20 off. Yes, that code stacks with existing Black Friday deals.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
