Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Smart Home Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Wyze Thermostat review: Affordable tech that competes with the best By Jon Bitner Close $74.00 Affordable cost Sensors feature an always-on display Easy-to-use and versatile smartphone app Installation can be a pain Wyze has quickly become the go-to company for affordable, practical, smart home gadgets. That holds true for the Wyze Thermostat and its new Wyze Room Sensors , which help keep your entire home comfortable with little upkeep required. Regardless of the size of your home or feet running around it, this smart thermostat and its optional Sensors are more than up to the task of keeping its temperature consistent.
Sleek, functional design Powered by your smartphone Ease of installation depends on your setup Improved by the Wyze Room Sensor? Our take The Wyze Thermostat does require a C-wire, although an included adapter allows you to upgrade nearly all existing setups. There are a few quirks that might make it less than perfect for some households, but most families will find heaps of value in the frugal Wyze Thermostat.
Best robot mops of 2023 The TP-Link Tapo C120 is an affordable security camera designed for all environments The best outdoor security cameras of 2023 Sleek, functional design Image used with permission by copyright holder If you’re upgrading from a decades-old thermostat, the Wyze Thermostat will feel futuristic as soon as you take it out of the box. Buttons are completely absent on all sides of the black, pill-shaped product, with just a small, motion-activated IPS display and a clickable temperature wheel on its front. It’s a slick-looking thermostat considering its price, and it feels much more expensive than you’d expect.
Each unit also comes with an optional wall plate that can be used to hide unpainted areas from your old thermostat, or if you’d just like to give it a more prominent place on your wall.
The only downside to this sleek design is that much of the Wyze Thermostat’s functionality is paired with a smartphone app. Alternatively, you can use Alexa or Google voice controls to quickly change settings. Wyze does let you toggle through different options directly on the unit using the temperature wheel, although it’s a bit cumbersome to fight through all its menus, and clicking the temperature wheel doesn’t feel as premium as the rest of the product.
Powered by your smartphone Jon Bitner / Digital Trends Thankfully, the Wyze smartphone app gives you a staggering amount of control over your thermostat. It can actually be overwhelming to check out all its features in one sitting. The main screen is easy enough to navigate, as it shows the current temperature in your home along with what it’s set to. This screen is also where you can quickly turn on or off your HVAC system — which comes in handy if you’re laying in bed and don’t want to get up to turn on your air conditioner.
The Wyze smartphone app includes a nifty chart that tracks your usage.
At the bottom of this main screen is the Controls menu. This lets you switch between different States (Home, Away, or Sleep), Modes (Auto, Heat, Cool, Off), along with a few other settings.
The Settings menu is where you’ll find the true functionality of your Wyze Thermostat. You can tell the thermostat whether you’re interested in Comfort or Savings. You can program different temperatures for different times of the day. You can even enable Auto Switch — which monitors your phone location to determine if it should follow your Home or Away settings.
If you’re curious about your usage, there’s even a nifty chart that lets you see how many hours your HVAC is engaged every single day. It’s rather basic (offering a bar chart showing usage and nothing more), but it’s a good way to monitor your energy consumption and helps pinpoint ways you can decrease your bills.
Whether you actually want to use all these functions is up to you, but it’s great that such a budget product gives you that option. It’s even better that they’re all just a click away, while the main features are front and center on the Wyze app.
Ease of installation depends on your setup Using the Wyze Thermostat is easy, but getting it installed is another story. Proper installation requires the presence of a C-wire. If your existing setup has one, congratulations — your new thermostat will be up and running in minutes.
But if you’re unlucky, you’ll need to install the included C-wire adapter. This means heading over to your furnace, popping open the front panel, and wading through a sea of wires. It’s not necessarily difficult, but it does take some time. Wyze gives you everything you need for the installation, although you’ll want to allow a bit more than the recommended 30-minutes. It also doesn’t hurt to have an assistant nearby to double-check your work (and for moral support).
After the C-wire is installed and you’ve got the Wyze Thermostat mounted on your wall, it’ll run through a quick series of tests to verify everything was done properly.
The installation process is the main reason the Wyze Thermostat won’t be for everyone. If you don’t have a C-wire and you’re not interested in rewiring your HVAC, you’ll need to either call on a professional or consider alternatives that don’t require a C-wire. But putting up with an extra 20 minutes of fuss is a small price to pay for the thermostat’s affordable price tag and versatility.
Improved by the Wyze Room Sensor? Jon Bitner / Digital Trends If you’re looking to get the most out of your Wyze Thermostat, you can pair it with up to six Wyze Room Sensors. These are sold separately ($25 each or a bundle of three for $70) and help eliminate cold and hot spots throughout your home.
After placing them in key locations (I’d recommend at least one in the most used room on each floor), the Wyze Thermostat will essentially average these readings together to improve its performance. They can also sense motion, giving priority to rooms that are occupied.
I was able to get my entire home to stabilize to the same temperature, with just a few degrees of wiggle room.
They sound great on paper, but I had mixed results during the initial phase of my testing. One sensor is placed up in my loft, while a second is downstairs in my living space along with a third in my office. Some days I had readings that were only a few degrees apart, while other days it’d be nearly seven degrees warmer up in my loft.
After a bit of tinkering with my Wyze app settings, however, I was able to get my entire home to stabilize around the same temperature, with just a few degrees of wiggle room. There are still days where some areas are warmer than others, but no doubt the Room Sensors help mitigate these warm spots — but I’d hesitate to say they’re entirely eliminated.
The Wyze Room Sensors certainly enhance the base performance of the Wyze Thermostat, and despite requiring some manual adjusting, I’d still recommend them to most users. They perform up to their price tag, and although they’re not perfect, it’s helpful to see temperatures throughout the home at a glance and help reduce hot spots.
Our take The Wyze Thermostat and Wyze Room Sensors are an affordable option for folks looking to upgrade their smart home. With sleek designs, friendly price tags, and admirable performance, only those without a C-wire should think twice before making a purchase.
How long will it last? The Wyze Room Sensors can last for a shocking three years before needing to replace the AAA batteries, and the product itself comes with a limited one-year warranty. The Wyze Thermostat also comes with a one-year warranty. Both products are solidly built and, unless something goes terribly wrong or you ram into them while moving furniture, they should last indefinitely.
Is there a better alternative? That depends on how you define “better.” If better means cheaper, then not really. Few products in this price range can compete with the Wyze Thermostat, although the Amazon Smart Thermostat is certainly worth a closer look. If better means more features and easier installation, then maybe. Be sure to check out our best smart thermostat roundup, which includes the Google Nest Thermostat, Ecobee SmartThermostat, and more.
Should you buy it Yes. The only people who might have some hesitations are those without a C-wire and who don’t want to mess around with rewiring their HVAC system. But if you’re willing to go through the installation process (or if you already have a compatible setup), the affordability and functionality of the Wyze Thermostat are impressive. If you have a few extra bucks to spare, syncing it with a few Wyze Room Sensors only makes things more enticing.
Editors' Recommendations The 11 best smart home products that support Matter The best smart home devices for 2023 The best video doorbells for 2023 The best smart displays for 2023 The best indoor security cameras of 2023 Product Reviews Smart Home Reviews Smart Home For many people the day is best kicked off with a nice cup of coffee. If you’re one of these people, not only do we have a great cup of coffee in store for you, but also some savings. Many of the best coffee makers often see discounts, and that’s certainly the case with one of the best names in coffee makers: Keurig. There are quite a few Keurig coffee makers seeing major price drops right now, including several in consideration for the best Keurig coffee makers. We’ve done the heavy lifting of tracking them all down, so read onward for more details on how to save on a Keurig coffee maker, and for more information on which Keurig coffee maker may be best for you.
Keurig K-Mini coffee maker — $50, was $100 The Keurig K-Mini single serve coffee maker is a stylish coffee maker that looks good in any kitchen or break room. It suits smaller spaces particularly well, as it’s less than five inches wide. Despite its smaller size, it’s still fully capable. It can brew any cup size between 6-12 ounces, and it’s able to brew coffee, tea, cocoa, and even iced beverages. The Keurig K-Mini single serve coffee maker has easy cord storage for transport and tidying up your countertop after use, and an energy efficiency feature turns the coffee maker off automatically 90 seconds after your last brew.
Smart Home A cordless vacuum is becoming a necessity for most families as it's one of the easiest ways of cleaning your home. These machines will allow you to move from room to room without having to unplug each time, and they'll also let you reach every nook and cranny. If you think it's time to buy one, we've gathered some of the best cordless vacuum deals below, including Dyson cordless vacuums and cheaper alternatives. You'll have to act fast though, as we don't think these discounts will last for long.
Black+Decker Powerseries+ 16V Max -- $89, was $100 Black+Decker Powerseries+ 16V Max works great on all floor types, and you don't have to activate any special modes to make it happen. It has an auto-detect function that automatically adjusts suction power when you switch surfaces. It has an LED light to help you see crumbs on the ground, and an anti-tangle brush bar to deal with pet hair. The cordless vacuum also has a freestanding design, meaning it will balance on the floor attachment without leaning on a wall, making it easy to store.
Smart Home The best smart locks of 2023 come from popular brands like Yale, Wyze, August, and Schlage, and they offer tons of cool features you won’t find on traditional deadbolts. From the ability to check the status of your lock remotely to being able to set up temporary profiles for guests, there’s a reason these smart home gadgets continue to grow in popularity.
Picking the right smart lock for your needs, however, is no small task. Not all smart locks are worthy of your time and money, and installing a bad smart lock could cause you plenty of headaches. Thankfully, there’s a product for every purpose. Whether you’re setting up a rental property, need something robust for a large family, or want to do away with your keys entirely, there’s bound to be a smart lock with your name on it.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
