Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Smart Home Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Yale Assure Lock 2 review: smarter than your average smart lock By Jon Bitner Close $260.00 Robust smartphone app Multiple available designs Gorgeous touchscreen Highly customizable performance Expensive Entry-level models lack important functionality Yale is a big name in the world of locks, having crafted a wide variety of trusted products since it was founded in 1840. Although the company got its start with traditional locks, the manufacturer wasted no time in dipping its toes into the world of smart locks — and its latest creation, the Yale Assure Lock 2 , is one of the best smart locks on the market.
Quick installation process Impressive designs Top-of-the-line software Add the Yale Assure Lock 2 to your shopping list With a slick design, an easy installation process, a powerful smartphone app, and multiple available models, the Yale Assure Lock 2 is a premium smart lock that doesn’t cut any corners. It’s a bit pricey — and the best features are restricted to the Wi-Fi models — but anyone seeking a well-rounded smart lock should have the Assure Lock 2 at the top of their list.
The best smart locks for 2023 Are keyless smart locks safe? New Yale Assure Lock 2 models get fingerprint scanner, support for Apple Home keys Quick installation process Jon Bitner / Digital Trends The worst part of any smart lock is always the installation process. Removing your old deadbolt and fitting the Assure Lock 2 is no different, although it’s about as painless as it gets for these kinds of projects. Yale has included detailed instructions that use both a traditional instruction manual and your smartphone to streamline the process.
For me, the most difficult part was removing my current smart lock — I’d long since lost the instructions, and simply resorted to removing every screw I could find. After a bit of struggling, the smart lock popped off, and I could officially begin the Assure Lock 2 installation.
It’s a rather standard process, and thanks to incredibly detailed instructions (and an included ruler to help measure the width of your door), you’re never left wondering if you’ve correctly performed your current step.
All told, it only took around 30 minutes to get the Assure Lock 2 installed.
After installing the deadbolt and keypad, the Assure Lock 2 gives you the option to install one of two different door sensors. These monitor the door’s position and give you alerts when it’s left ajar. The easiest sensor to install is one that simply screws into the frame of your door next to the deadbolt — the pill-shaped device looks a bit funky, but it took all of two minutes to get positioned and installed.
The other option requires you to drill a small hole on the inside of your door frame before placing a small, circular sensor in the cutout. It’ll be completely out of sight when the door is closed, but it requires a few extra minutes of your time. I wasn’t comfortable drilling into my crumbling, 50-year-old frame, so I opted for the easier solution.
Since I was sent the Assure Lock 2 Touchscreen with Wi-Fi, I had one extra step after installing the deadbolt and door sensor — getting it hooked up to my network. The process is as simple as clicking a few buttons in the smartphone app and entering your Wi-Fi password.
All told, it took around 30 minutes to get the deadbolt installed, the sensor set up, and everything connected to Wi-Fi.
Impressive designs Yale Since your smart lock will be one of the first things visitors to your home notice, you’ll want it to look sleek and stylish. The Yale Assure Lock 2 is offered in three different colors (black, bronze, and satin nickel) and several different formats (touchscreen or keypad and keyed or key-free), making it easy to find something that fits in with the rest of your home.
Best of all, every single model looks stunning. My review unit was a key-free touchscreen model in Satin Nickel, and it’s difficult to understate its premium appearance. The touchscreen is a particular standout, as it offers a variety of striking effects (such as lights that oscillate down the keypad when locking and optional sound effects when pressing buttons) and is incredibly responsive to even the lightest touch.
The touchscreen is surrounded by a round design that cuts out all fluff and is much thinner than the outgoing Assure Lock SL.
 Aside from the touchscreen, the only discernible feature on the Assure Lock 2 is a set of prongs on the bottom that can be used during emergencies to recharge the smart lock with a 9-volt battery. And since this model doesn’t come with a keyhole, that gave me peace of mind that I wouldn’t get locked out if the batteries suddenly ran out of juice while I’m on vacation.
Top-of-the-line software Image used with permission by copyright holder Yale backs up the Assure Lock 2’s good looks with a comprehensive set of features. From its smartphone app, you’ll have the ability to set up a permanent password, create guest profiles with temporary passwords, check the status of the door (open or closed, locked or unlocked), remotely lock or unlock the door, or even enable an auto-lock option that will lock the door behind you. You can even set it to unlock when you approach with your smartphone — granting you easy access if you have an armful of groceries and can’t be bothered to type in a code.
Another cool feature is the activity feed, which tracks when the door is opened, closed, locked, and unlocked. Many folks probably won’t bother to use the feed, but it’s useful if you want to keep tabs on your home while away on vacation (or check that your teenager is making it home before curfew).
You can upgrade the $160 Bluetooth-only models with the Wi-Fi Smart Module at a later date.
However, some of this functionality is lost if you don’t pick up a Wi-Fi-enabled Assure Lock 2. Opting for the standard Assure Lock 2 will still let you connect via Bluetooth to set up multiple passwords and profiles, but without the Wi-Fi smart module, you won’t be able to remotely lock or unlock your door or check on its status when away from home. And quite frankly, those capabilities are half the reason this lock is so compelling — making it all but a necessity to spring for the pricey Wi-Fi models.
If you can’t fit a $240 smart lock into your budget today, you can upgrade the $160 Bluetooth-only models with the Wi-Fi Smart Module at a later date. This will grant you all the features found on the Wi-Fi-enabled Assure Lock 2, as well as the option to upgrade your smart lock, which is a nice perk for shoppers on a budget. The module will set you back $80, which brings your total spending in line with the Wi-Fi models. In other words, you don’t have to pay a premium for upgrading.
Yale is eventually going to launch a Z-Wave Plus Smart Module, which will allow the smart lock to communicate with SmartThings, Ring, Arlo, ADT, and other popular products. When it launches, it’s expected to cost $80 — a steep price that only die-hard smart home enthusiasts will likely pay.
For integration with the industry-standard Amazon Alexa , Google Home , and Apple HomeKit, you’ll only need the standard Smart Module that’s included with Wi-Fi-enabled models. If you don’t get a Wi-Fi-enabled model, you’ll only get support for Apple HomeKit.
Add the Yale Assure Lock 2 to your shopping list Jon Bitner / Digital Trends I’ve been using the Yale Assure Lock 2 for about a month now, and I haven’t stumbled upon a single major issue. Sometimes it’ll take a few moments for my smartphone to sync with the lock when I’m away from home, and the door sensor installed on the frame looks a bit quirky, but those are minor complaints compared to its features.
The big issue with the Assure Lock 2 is its price. There’s no doubt that the smart lock brings a ton of functionality to the table (along with a sleek footprint), but the $160 base model’s lack of Wi-Fi support really pushes you to the $240 Wi-Fi model. If price is no issue, then you’ll find the Assure Lock 2 to be one of the best smart locks available.
If you’re looking for something that’s as elegant as it is functional, there’s not much that competes with the Assure Lock 2.
Functional and stylish, there are only a handful of competitors for the Assure Lock 2. The August Wi-Fi Smart Lock is a perennial favorite, granting you remote access to your door without the need to swap out your hardware. It’s also a bit cheaper than the Yale Assure Lock 2, but it lacks a keypad (although you can purchase one separately).
If you’re in the market for something more affordable, the Wyze Lock is a better option. It clocks in at just $130 (a much lower price than even the cheapest Assure Lock 2), and it gives you Wi-Fi support right out of the box. But if you’re looking for something that’s as elegant as it is functional, there’s not much that competes with the Assure Lock 2.
Editors' Recommendations The best smart home devices for 2023 New Wyze Video Doorbell v2 offers microSD card slot, 2K resolution for just $40 What is a smart lock and how does it work? Ecovacs Deebot X2 Omni boasts a new square design and improved vacuuming skills 10 of the best budget smart home devices under $100 Home Security Product Reviews Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Smart home gadgets span a wide range of categories. From video doorbells and robot vacuums to outdoor cameras and smart speakers, smart gadgets can be found in all corners of the modern home. Now, thanks to Home Depot, you can now snag the first residential smart door -- and it features a built-in Yale smart lock and Ring video doorbell.
Before you rush out to your local Home Depot, it’s worth noting that this futuristic smart door comes with a hefty price tag of $4,000. Multiple styles are available, including two different sizes and additional sidelites, and depending on your configuration, its price can balloon to an eye-watering $7,000.
Smart Home Depending on which Yale Assure Lock 2 model you own, you could see anywhere from three to 12 months of battery life. That’s a shocking range -- and if you’re not prepared to change batteries every 90 days, you’ll want to do everything you can do to optimize its performance.
From picking the right model to perfecting your installation, here’s a look at how to improve Yale Assure Lock 2 battery life.
Picking the right Yale Assure Lock 2 Smart Home Your dorm is the home base for absolutely everything you do in college. It’s probably a bit cramped, however, and you probably don’t have enough space to bring all your gadgets from back home. But with a bit of ingenuity – and the help of smart home devices – it’s possible to piece together a dorm room that’s perfect for studying, relaxing, and hanging out with friends.
From smart speakers and smart light bulbs to power strips and smart plugs, here’s a look at the best smart home tech for your dorm room.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
