Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Smart Home Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Yeedi Mop Station Pro review: great on paper, needs work in practice By Erin Lawrence Close $799.00 On some spills, it mops very well Mops & vacuums simultaneously Nice design Scrubbing mop Washes and dries mops Reasonable price No automatic dustbin emptying Cleaning is intermittently effective Vacuum only gets about 75% of debris Only small dustbin while in mop mode; needs frequent emptying Can’t redraw some room boundaries manually Robot mops are the newest floor-cleaning revolution, and while early designs simply modified a robot vacuum to pull a damp cloth across your floors, companies have been innovating ever since. Case in point, the Yeedi Mop Station Pro.
What is a Yeedi Mop Station Pro? Set up and smart mapping Key features of the Yeedi Mop Station Pro Yeedi’s runtime & charging How well does Yeedi Mop Station Pro clean? What we think: Yeedi Mop Station Pro I recently got my hands on one to share what it’s like to set up and use, how effective the cleaning is or isn’t, about its special features, and if we can recommend it to you.
Cordless vs. robot vacuums: which one should you buy? iRobot Roomba Combo j9+ robot vacuum and mop is perfect for high-pile carpet Best vacuum deals: cordless to corded, Dyson to Bissell What is a Yeedi Mop Station Pro? This robot is made primarily for hard-surfaced floors, and it prioritizes mopping over vacuuming. Let me explain: The robot comes with two plates. One is a large 750-milliliter dust bin that is used for vacuuming only. If you want to both vacuum and mop together, you can swap in the mopping plate which has two microfiber cleaning pads, plus a very small dustbin.
It uses a companion app to control the bot, schedule cleans, and adjust settings.
Set up and smart mapping Start things off by signing up for or signing into the EDD app (it’s the companion app), then initiate a mapping mission, which the app will prompt you to do.
The Yeedi Mop Station Pro mapped my home quickly and I was able to add labels and adjust the boundaries of my spaces, though I wasn’t unable to divvy up my largest space inside the app — a dual kitchen and living room. I’m not sure why, but it simply wouldn’t work.
Key features of the Yeedi Mop Station Pro Dual-Power spin mopping Image used with permission by copyright holder The major cleaning perk in this bot, though it does exist in at least one other brand (Ecovacs X1 Omni), is a dual-spinning microfiber mopping pad. The mopping pads are quite plush, and they seem adept at scrubbing uneven floors. Yeedi says they spin at 180 times per minute, so they should have the ability to remove dried spills.
Adjustable water flow The Yeedi app will control the amount of water flowing through the mopping pads for a more thorough clean, or one that would dry quicker.
In a bit of a departure from other mopping robots, the onboard mopping tank is neither visible nor accessible to you. It hides somewhere deep inside the robot, but that’s fine since the mop station fills that onboard tank. You can actually hear the Mop Station Pro gurgling as it tops up the tank before it heads out to work.
Washing machine for mops The second innovation in the Mop Station Pro is that the bot will wash and then dry the mopping pads after it’s washed the floors.
Two 3.5 L water tanks separately hold both clean water and wastewater from the cleaning cycle.
In a bit of a departure from other mopping robots, the onboard mopping tank is neither visible nor accessible.
Strong suction power A robot vacuum is only as effective as its suction power. Fortunately, Yeedi Mop Station Pro has up to 3,000 pascals of adjustable suction power, which is actually a bit above many other robot vacuums.
No auto-emptying of dustbin The larger vacuum-only dustbin is also much bigger than that of most robot vacuums on the market, which means it stores more dust for less emptying, and that’s actually kind of important since the Mop Station Pro does not have automatic dustbin emptying. When I mentioned earlier that this bot prioritizes mopping, this is one of the ways it does that: You get servicing of the mopping pads, instead of hands-free dustbin emptying.
Vacuum intake can get clogged if not emptied often.
Image used with permission by copyright holder One other early thing I discovered in my testing is that, because it’s up to you to empty the dustbin, if you forget and it gets too stuffed it can clog up the underside intake pretty badly. More than once I thought it was doing a poor job vacuuming, so I took things apart and found too much dirt and hair clogging things. A word to the wise, frequent dustbin emptying is going to be important for best operation.
Carpet detection One of the last things you want for a robot mop is for it to roll over your carpets and wet them. Fortunately, the Yeedi Mop Station Pro has a carpet sensor, and in my testing with this, it’s noticeable. If the mopping plate is installed, the vacuum will only nudge its nose onto the carpet enough to detect it, then it will back off. This feature worked really well. In vacuuming mode and with the mop removed, the bot will also up its suction power to get dirt out from deeper carpet fibers.
Yeedi’s runtime & charging The Yeedi Mop Station Pro’s 5200 mAh battery allows for 180 minutes of runtime on a charge. That’s a large battery and excellent battery life for these types of robo-vacs. Plus, when the Yeedi bot is in a larger space it will automatically recharge and resume cleaning if needed. Not necessarily the case in my home, but good to know.
How well does Yeedi Mop Station Pro clean? I put all my robot vacuum mops through the same tests. I sprinkle fine flour, middle-sized debris like rice or oatmeal, and larger biscuit pieces on both carpet and hard floors to test the vacuuming. To test the mopping, I spill things like red wine and let coffee dry.
whether or not you should buy the Yeedi depends on if the pros outweigh the cons.
In my cleaning tests with the Yeedi Mop Station Pro, I found the robot to be kind of intermittent in its cleaning abilities. Sometimes it cleaned really well. Other times, it didn’t.
Image used with permission by copyright holder For example, on my tile floor while in mopping mode, it missed part of a red wine spill, but in a later coffee spill test, it was able to mop up most of it. Even so, it did leave enough coffee residue behind that there was a noticeable film.
On one dry spill of oats, it scattered most of the debris with its spinning corner brush and never returned to vacuum it. Another time, it did.
On carpets, Yeedi Mop Station Pro-bot was similarly on and off. I’d say on average it was able to get about 75 percent of any vacuum debris, but that’s far less than what I’ve experienced in other robot vacuums I’ve put through these same tests.
In the end, I opted to change the cleaning settings to have the robot go over everything twice, and that went a long way toward getting a more thorough clean.
Voice Control As most robot vacuum mops do these days, the Yeedi Mop Station Pro has voice control through Google or Alexa.
 You will need a separate Google or Alexa device in order to set this up, and I opted to connect mine to my Google Home system.
 I won’t clutter things up here with a how-to but the Google Home app walks you through it and I had voice control moments later.
What we think: Yeedi Mop Station Pro When it comes to whether or not I’d recommend this bot, it’s got some good qualities and some concerns, so my opinion is divided. On the pro side, it mapped quickly but I wasn’t able to properly divide my largest room. I like the design and that it both vacuums and mops, and the fluffy mopping pads can be quite effective, plus the water tanks are big, meaning less filling and emptying. Yeedi Mop Station Pro will both vacuum and mop at the same time, though on the downside its dual-purpose dustbin only holds so much dust when in mopping mode.
The mopping quality was mostly good, but not perfect, and the vacuuming, though sometimes not great on hard floors, was better on carpets and rugs. When I emptied the dustbin it was quite full, proving it does pick up a lot of dirt. Other Downsides? I do wish the mop station was also able to handle automatic emptying of the onboard dust bin, since forgetting risks clogging up to intake.
There are actually a lot of features packed into this bot for a reasonable price, and the cleaning power is quite good — when it’s good. But when it comes to the execution of cleaning it doesn’t perform as well as some other bots I’ve tried. I think this robot has a promising future in a second-generation model, but for now, whether or not you should buy this one will depend if the pros outweigh the cons.
Editors' Recommendations Best robot mops of 2023 How often should you replace your robot vacuum? SwitchBot S10 robot vacuum connects to your plumbing for fully automated mopping iRobot expands Roomba 2-in-1 lineup with Combo j5+ and Combo i5+ Best robot vacuum mop combo for 2023 Product Reviews Robot Vacuums Smart Home Reviews Smart Home There’s been no shortage of robot vacuum launches of late, and it seems Eufy isn’t going to miss out on the fun. Following hot on the heels of Ecovacs and Roborock, Eufy is releasing the X9 Pro Robovac on June 29. But unlike the competition, the X9 Pro will offer mopping and vacuuming skills for less than $1,000.
The X9 Pro will be available for just $899, yet offers many of the features found on products that sell for twice its price. This includes 5,500 Pa of suction, the ability to raise its mop a full 12mm when traveling on carpet, and a base station that can clean and dry the robot after each cycle. That’s an impressive list of features, especially when you consider the price tag.
Smart Home The Roborock S8 Pro Ultra and Roborock S7 Max Ultra are two of the best robot vacuums of 2023. With the ability to both mop and vacuum -- and then empty their dustbins and clean their mops at the charging dock -- they offer everything you need to automate your home cleaning. But aside from remarkably similar names, the two also share many of the same specs.
Here’s a closer look at the S8 Pro Ultra and S7 Max Ultra to help you decide which is best for your smart home.
Pricing and availability Smart Home It seems like Ecovacs only just launched the Deebot T10 Omni, but the company is already gearing up for another massive product launch. On June 13, the Ecovacs Deebot T20 Omni will hit the markets, bringing with it a bunch of new skills -- including the ability to raise its mop while traveling on carpet and an automated mop-washing station that uses hot water to prevent the buildup of bacteria.
The ability to lift its mopping plates 9mm off the ground is a big selling point of the T20 Omni. In fact, no other robot vacuum can lift their mop higher -- unless, of course, you count the j7+ Combo, which completely changes the orientation of its mophead to ensure it doesn’t brush along your carpet. But no matter how you cut it, the 9mm of travel distance for the mophead is a big improvement for the T20 Omni.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
