Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Apple Watch Series 8 vs Apple Watch Series 7 Best Apple Watch Faces Apple Watch SE 2 vs Apple Watch SE Apple Watch Series 8 vs Apple Watch Ultra Track Sleep with an Apple Watch Home Mobile Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Apple Watch Ultra 2 review: why I think you’ll love it By Joe Maring Close $799.00 Titanium design is still gorgeous Stunning, super bright display Unmatched performance Siri is better than ever Twice as much storage Excellent battery life WatchOS 10 is fantastic Double Tap is underutilized Virtually identical to last year's model I’ll say it right now: the Apple Watch Ultra 2 is the best, most premium Apple Watch you can buy today. That’s it; the review is over. Thanks for stopping by! Apple Watch Ultra 2: what’s new this year? Apple Watch Ultra 2: Double Tap Apple Watch Ultra 2: design, hardware, and health features Apple Watch Ultra 2: battery life Apple Watch Ultra 2: watchOS 10 Apple Watch Ultra 2: price and availability Apple Watch Ultra 2: verdict I jest, but it really is that simple. The first Apple Watch Ultra was a big risk for Apple and one that paid off in spades. The new model keeps everything that was so excellent about its predecessor, and because of that, it has an outstanding foundation to work on. Combine that with a handful of new upgrades, and the Apple Watch Ultra 2 is the first Apple Watch Ultra again, just a little bit better than before.
Here’s our first look at OnePlus’ next Apple Watch killer There might be something wrong with the Google Pixel Watch 2 Waiting for the Apple Watch Ultra 3? We have bad news If you’re already wearing an Apple Watch Ultra, you almost certainly don’t need this new one. But if you aren’t, and you’re ready to jump aboard the Ultra bandwagon, the Apple Watch Ultra 2 is the real deal.
Apple Watch Ultra 2: what’s new this year? Previous Next 1 3 Apple Watch Ultra 2 (left) next to the Apple Watch Ultra Joe Maring / Digital Trends Apple Watch Ultra 2 (top) next to the Apple Watch Ultra Joe Maring / Digital Trends Apple Watch Ultra 2 (top) next to the Apple Watch Ultra Joe Maring / Digital Trends Looking at the Apple Watch Ultra 2 with the original Apple Watch Ultra , it’s impossible to tell any difference between them. I mean it! Even the underside of the Apple Watch Ultra 2 still says “Apple Watch Ultra.” If it wasn’t for the new green/gray Trail Loop on the Ultra 2, I couldn’t tell the two apart.
Although the design is unchanged, there are a few new things with the Apple Watch Ultra 2 — you just can’t see them right away.
One of the biggest upgrades this year is the display. It’s still the same size OLED display as the previous model, but the brightness has now increased from a 2,000-nit maximum all the way up to 3,000 nits. It’s the brightest display Apple’s ever included on an Apple Watch, and it really does look fantastic.
Joe Maring / Digital Trends Everything on the screen is easy to read, the colors are incredible, and I’ve never had a problem with its legibility — even during the last few sunny days of October in the Midwest. I also appreciate that the screen can go all the down to just one nit, which has been helpful when using the Apple Watch at night or in a dark room.
It’s the brightest display Apple’s ever included on an Apple Watch, and it really does look fantastic.
The other big upgrade is the new S9 chipset. It’s based on the same A15 Bionic chip used in the iPhone 14 and iPhone 14 Plus , with Apple claiming it to be 30% faster than last year’s Apple Watch Ultra. And yes, I can indeed confirm that it’s very fast. From opening apps, starting workouts, or replying to notifications, the Apple Watch Ultra 2 handles it all without breaking a sweat. Although I can’t say I’ve noticed a significant performance difference between it and my previous-gen Ultra, the added horsepower should come in handy after years of use and software updates down the road.
One area where I have noticed a big upgrade is Siri. The S9 chip now allows Siri to process requests (that don’t require an internet connection) entirely on-device without having to relay them to your iPhone and back. From using Siri to set alarms, dictate text messages, and other requests, the assistant is noticeably faster than it is on older Apple Watches.
Previous Next 1 2 Siri on the Apple Watch Ultra 2 Joe Maring / Digital Trends Precision Finding feature on the Apple Watch Ultra 2 Joe Maring / Digital Trends If I ask Siri on my Apple Watch Ultra to set a timer, there’s frequently a delay where it requires a couple of seconds to process my request before the timer is actually enabled. But on the Apple Watch Ultra 2, it happens instantaneously with virtually no delay. It’s a seemingly small change, but it’s been one of the most impactful throughout my testing.
There are other new goodies, too. If you have an iPhone 15 or iPhone 15 Pro , the new Precision Finding feature (powered by Apple’s second-gen Ultra Wideband chip) allows you to see the distance and direction of your lost iPhone right on your Apple Watch display. It actually works really well the times I’ve tried it, and I can see this being a big selling point for people who have a tendency to misplace their iPhones (including yours truly). You also now have 64GB of internal storage (up from 32GB), so there’s more room to store your apps, offline music, podcasts, etc.
Apple Watch Ultra 2: Double Tap Joe Maring / Digital Trends There’s one other big new feature for the Apple Watch Ultra 2, and that’s Double Tap. It’s the feature that caught my eye the most during Apple’s big fall event in September , and on paper, it should be the most impressive aspect of the Apple Watch Ultra 2. To control various aspects of your Apple Watch, all you have to do is tap your index finger and thumb together.
Depending on what you’re doing on the Apple Watch Ultra 2, using the Double Tap gesture can do a few different things. You can pause/play music if you’re in the Music app, answer incoming phone calls, start a voice reply to a text message, stop a timer or alarm, or scroll through any widgets you have in your watchOS 10 Smart Stack.
 These are all good ideas and any time I’ve used Double Tap, it works reliably.
When you use Double Tap, you get a blue indicator at the top of the screen Joe Maring / Digital Trends My issue with Double Tap is that it just doesn’t do very much. I’ve used it a handful of times to scroll through my Smart Stack widgets, but beyond that, I’ve not had any real use for it. And even when I do use it, I need to remind myself it’s there.
I wish I could use Double Tap to scroll through my notifications, pause/resume workouts, switch between recent apps, etc. Apple doesn’t make it clear in the UI where Double Tap does and doesn’t work, which often leads me to assume it just won’t do anything. I also wish it supported other types of hand gestures, like a single tap, clenching your fist, etc. You know, gestures you can already use on older Apple Watches with the AssistiveTouch feature.
Could Apple add more features to Double Tap with future software updates? It certainly could, and I hope the company does. But as it stands right now, it’s a cool party trick that isn’t as useful as I had hoped it would be.
Apple Watch Ultra 2: design, hardware, and health features Joe Maring / Digital Trends Thankfully, even with Double Tap being a disappointment, that’s quickly made up by the Apple Watch Ultra 2’s hardware. Virtually nothing has changed from the first Apple Watch Ultra, which is to say the Apple Watch Ultra 2 is one of the nicest-designed smartwatches you can buy.
You once again get a 49mm case size that’s made out of titanium — making it a perfect pairing for the iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro Max.
 There were rumors that Apple would release a new color for the second-gen Ultra, but there’s still just the natural titanium finish available. I personally think this is fine, as the natural titanium looks gorgeous.
 It gives the Apple Watch Ultra 2 a refined, almost rugged appearance that I really love.
Joe Maring / Digital Trends There also aren’t any new sizes available, meaning the Apple Watch Ultra 2 is still a very big smartwatch.
I was initially apprehensive about the size , but even as someone with teeny tiny wrists, I’ve found the Apple Watch Ultra 2 to be shockingly comfortable. Despite the hefty 61.4-gram weight (over 22 grams heavier than the 45mm aluminum Apple Watch Series 9), I’ve never found the Ultra 2 to be too heavy. It sits atop my wrist with ease, and it doesn’t get in the way of daily life.
There are other smaller details about the Apple Watch Ultra design that remain outstanding a year after it was first introduced. The larger Digital Crown is phenomenal, the side button feels better than it does on other Apple Watches, and I love the look of the guard they sit in. It’s a small touch, but it really does give the Apple Watch Ultra 2 a unique identity compared to the Apple Watch Series 9 and Apple Watch SE 2.
Joe Maring / Digital Trends Also returning is the Action button, and once again, it’s a very welcome addition to the Apple Watch formula. I love using the Action button to launch the Workout app, and the ability to pause/resume runs by pressing the Action button and the side button together — instead of fiddling with touchscreen controls — is a game changer when trying to set PRs while out running.
I do wish Apple would expand the button’s functionality with additional actions or gestures (such as double and triple-press options), but it’s still a huge convenience in its current form — and something I miss desperately whenever I go back to other Apple Watch models.
The Apple Watch Ultra 2 is one of the nicest-designed smartwatches you can buy.
The Apple Watch Ultra 2 doesn’t have any health or fitness tracking upgrades, but that’s not necessarily a bad thing. You still get Apple’s excellent all-day activity tracking , 24/7 heart rate monitoring, SpO2 tracking, an ECG app, cycle tracking, custom heart rate zones during workouts, and more. It’s one of the most robust health-tracking suites on any wearable, and it all works just as well on the Apple Watch Ultra 2 as you’d expect it to.
Apple Watch Ultra 2: battery life Joe Maring / Digital Trends Battery life was one of the main highlights of the original Apple Watch Ultra, and the Apple Watch Ultra 2 ensures that remains true for another year to come. I typically get a little over two days out of the Apple Watch Ultra 2 on a single charge. That includes using the Apple Watch Ultra 2 for a handful of workouts throughout the week (Apple Fitness+ treadmill and strength workouts, plus outdoor walks with GPS tracking), a steady stream of notifications each day, the always-on display enabled, occasional timers, and no sleep tracking.
Joe Maring / Digital Trends Although this still doesn’t match the endurance you’ll find with wearables like the Garmin Forerunner 265 or the Fitbit Charge 6 , it is the best you can get for an Apple Watch. And keep in mind I’ve been getting over two days of battery life without using Apple’s Low Power Mode. If you enable that — and don’t mind some of the feature sacrifices that come with it — our testing of Low Power Mode last year proved it can stretch the Apple Watch Ultra’s battery to five days.
When it finally comes time to charge the Apple Watch Ultra 2, it uses the same magnetic charging puck Apple’s been using for years (take note, Google Pixel Watch 2 ). It’s simple and convenient, and charging the watch from 0-100% typically takes around an hour and a half.
Apple Watch Ultra 2: watchOS 10 Joe Maring / Digital Trends The next big software update for the Apple Watch is watchOS 10, and it’s what you get on the Apple Watch Ultra 2 right out of the box. WatchOS 10 doesn’t completely reinvent the watchOS formula, but there are some pretty substantial changes that I think you’ll really like.
I already mentioned one of the biggest new features, and that’s Smart Stack. From the watch face on the Apple Watch Ultra 2, spinning the Digital Crown up reveals a series of widgets that you can move and organize to your heart’s content. I have my Smart Stack arranged to show me a five-hour weather forecast, my upcoming calendar events, my Activity rings, and a graph of my heart rate.
Joe Maring / Digital Trends Smart Stack can also automatically add additional widgets based on what you’re doing — like a media widget if you’re playing audio, any active timers, and passes from Apple Wallet if you’re near a location where one can be used. The widgets look fantastic, and I love having quick access to so much information without needing to litter my watch faces with endless complications.
You’ll also notice that a lot of apps in watchOS 10 look way better than they did before. The Weather app, for example, is now filled with gorgeous animations, has a more logical interface, and offers easier access to things like the UV index, humidity, and other details. Similar redesigns also apply to the Activity, World Clock, and Stocks apps. Not every Apple Watch app has been given a dramatic facelift, but in the ones that have, they look amazing.
Previous Next 1 2 watchOS 10 Stocks app Joe Maring / Digital Trends watchOS 10 World Clock app Joe Maring / Digital Trends There are other small changes in watchOS 10 that I like. Pressing the side button now brings up the Control Center instead of your recently-used apps, which I’ve found much more useful. The new watch faces are also excellent, with the Snoopy watch face being a particular highlight. It’s just too cute.
I’ve really enjoyed using watchOS 10 on the Apple Watch Ultra 2, and it absolutely shines on the wearable. But it’s important to remember that watchOS 10 is now available for other Apple Watches — going all the way back to the Apple Watch Series 4. The Apple Watch Ultra 2 is one of the best ways to experience Apple’s newest smartwatch software, but you certainly don’t need to buy the Ultra 2 in order to get it.
Apple Watch Ultra 2: price and availability Joe Maring / Digital Trends The Apple Watch Ultra 2 is available for purchase now from Apple’s website and third-party retailers like Amazon, Best Buy, and others. It costs $799 no matter which band you buy it with — including the Alpine Loop (pictured throughout this review), Trail Loop, and Ocean Band.
All Apple Watch Ultra 2 models come with support for LTE connectivity by default, so unlike the Apple Watch Series 9, there’s no upcharge for it. You’ll still need to pay your carrier a monthly fee to use their LTE service on the watch, but the hardware is there should you want to use it.
Apple Watch Ultra 2: verdict Joe Maring / Digital Trends Is the Apple Watch Ultra 2 a boring smartwatch? Is it a sign of Apple playing things too safely? If you’re looking at it as a direct upgrade to the Apple Watch Ultra, sure. But as Apple has done for years with its main Apple Watch Series releases, the Apple Watch Ultra 2 isn’t for people who bought an Apple Watch Ultra last year. It’s for everyone else.
The Apple Watch Ultra 2 is a first-class smartwatch in just about every regard, just like its older sibling. The brighter display is a nice touch, the added horsepower is great, Siri is better than ever, and I’m looking forward to Double Tap growing into its own. If you have $799 to spend and want the best Apple Watch experience money can buy, the Apple Watch Ultra 2 is it.
I can’t recommend the Apple Watch Ultra 2 enough.
There’s still a part of me that wishes Apple had done more with the Apple Watch Ultra 2, whether that be a new size, extra health features, or something else. The Ultra 2 is far from a bad product because it’s not a complete overhaul, and you certainly shouldn’t look at it as such. But considering how revolutionary the first Apple Watch Ultra was, compared to the very minute upgrade we have this year, I understand feeling a bit let down.
Regardless of all that, the simple fact remains that the Apple Watch Ultra 2 is a joy. If you don’t need it, wait and see what Apple does with the Apple Watch Ultra 3 or the Ultra 4. But if this is your year to buy a new Apple Watch, I can’t recommend the Apple Watch Ultra 2 enough.
Editors' Recommendations Apple Watch is bringing back a popular feature soon The 22 best Apple Watch faces you should be using The Apple Watch could get two amazing health features next year Which Apple Pencil should you buy in 2023? It’s complicated Apple is investigating an issue with flickering Apple Watch displays Apple Apple Watch Product Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Wearable Reviews Wearables Mobile Apple has been relatively silent since announcing the iPhone 15 series and new Apple Watches in September. However, there are rumors that new iPads could be announced soon. Although Apple didn't announce any new iPads on October 17 as originally suspected, it's evident that new iPads are likely coming at some point in the near future.
As the announcement will almost certainly be made through an online press release, not a full-blown press event, you might think these updates won't be significant. Still, this news could not have come at a better time for those planning to buy an iPad, as the holiday buying season is starting to ramp up.
Mobile You’ve probably never seen an iPhone case like this before, and there’s a very good chance you’ve never used one like it before, either. It’s the Oceanic+ Dive Housing, and it seals your iPhone in a pressured environment to keep it safe so you take photos deep underwater without risking damage. What’s more, it turns your iPhone into a dive computer, and it works alongside your Apple Watch Ultra or Apple Watch Ultra 2.
You may be familiar with Oceanic+, the app that turns the Apple Watch Ultra into a dive computer. It’s being updated to version 2.0, and along with a suite of new features comes compatibility with the new Dive Housing. Put your iPhone inside it, and an automatic vacuum pump starts to seal it safely inside, a process completed after a few minutes and various leak tests. It’s then ready to be taken underwater to a depth of 60 meters and controlled using the Bluetooth-connected physical buttons on the case.
Mobile During its Made by Google event in New York, Google revealed the next generation of its smartwatch with the Google Pixel Watch 2. Though it looks very much like the original Google Pixel Watch, there are a lot of improvements that Google made this year.
For one, the new Pixel Watch 2 has an all-new quad-core CPU, 24 hours of battery life with the always-on display enabled, more accurate heart rate readings, a new skin temperature sensor, and better integrated and more refined buttons. In addition, the crown offers smoother navigation throughout. And all of this is packed into a new 100% recycled aluminum casing that is 10% lighter than its predecessor's.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
