Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Apple Watch Series 8 vs Apple Watch Series 7 Best Apple Watch Faces Apple Watch SE 2 vs Apple Watch SE Apple Watch Series 8 vs Apple Watch Ultra Track Sleep with an Apple Watch Home Mobile Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Apple Watch Ultra review: a big, exciting, overwhelming success By Andy Boxall and Christine Romero-Chan Close $799.00 Highly durable build Luxury materials Three-day battery life Expertly judged special features Characterful design Does everything the Series 8 does LTE as standard Twice the price of the Series 8 Apple makes amazing products almost anyone can pick up, use, and enjoy. When you first hear about the Apple Watch Ultra, however, it doesn’t sound like it’s for everyone. It’s for those few with $800 to spend on a smartwatch that’s seemingly only supposed to be used in the sea, up a mountain, or covered in mud in a bog. Or is it? About our Apple Watch Ultra review Apple Watch Ultra: design Making the Apple Watch Ultra more comfortable Apple Watch Ultra: fitness tracking Apple Watch Ultra: Wayfinder face and compass app Apple Watch Ultra: Backtrack Apple Watch Ultra: screen, software, and performance Apple Watch Ultra: battery Apple Watch Ultra: Low Power Mode Apple Watch Ultra: a second opinion, from a woman’s perspective Apple Watch Ultra: price and availability Apple Watch Ultra: verdict I’ve not been anywhere like that during my time with the Apple Watch Ultra, and I think it’s one of the most exciting, technically impressive, and characterful products Apple has ever made. You’re skeptical, aren’t you? Allow me to explain.
Here’s our first look at OnePlus’ next Apple Watch killer The Apple Watch could get two amazing health features next year Apple is investigating an issue with flickering Apple Watch displays About our Apple Watch Ultra review This review was originally published in September 2022 by Andy Boxall after using the Apple Watch Ultra since its launch. The majority of the review is based on that initial period with the smartwatch. Since then, we’ve continued to wear it and updated the review in March 2023 with new observations and comments on new features. Christine Romero-Chan wrote the second opinion section in August 2023, offering another perspective on the Apple Watch Ultra.
Apple Watch Ultra: design Andy Boxall / Digital Trends The Apple Watch Ultra is quite big. The 49mm by 44mm by 14mm case is larger than the Apple Watch Series 8 and Watch SE 2 , but it’s not all that different from the 45mm x 45mm x 10mm Galaxy Watch 5 Pro , or seriously sporty smartwatches like the 46mm x 46mm x 14mm Garmin Forerunner 955.
 If you’ve got slim wrists, it’s going to look gigantic, but not because it’s badly proportioned — no, it’s because the watch is so large.
 I’ve compared the size with other large watches to give you an idea of whether it’s going to suit your wrist or not.
However, the Apple Watch Ultra is recognizably an Apple Watch, just chunkier. It’s as if the Series 8 has been reimagined by Tonka.
 Retaining the now-classic Apple Watch shape is the right decision, as — despite the size and 61-gram (95-gram with the band) weight — it’s very comfortable to wear. The sharpness of the bezel isn’t repeated anywhere the watch touches your skin, where that familiar curved case ensures it never prods or pokes uncomfortably.
The button and Digital Crown guard don’t dig into your wrist either, which is even difficult for some large traditional watches to avoid. My watch has the Ocean Band, and I have found it perfectly wearable. I chose it because I wear dive watches a lot, and I particularly like Seiko’s supplied rubber straps. This has the same degree of flexibility, doesn’t get hot, and allows for masses of adjustments to make it suitable for all wrists and to wear over a wetsuit.
Andy Boxall / Digital Trends On the opposite side of the case from the Digital Crown is the new, bright orange Action Button. By default, it activates the Workout mode, but it’s surprisingly customizable, with the stopwatch, torch, and dive modes as other options, in addition to adding a waypoint when using GPS. If you keep the default setting, you can also set the button to start a specific workout, bypassing the usual countdown.
Also activated with the orange Action Button is the emergency siren, which Apple says can be heard up to 180 meters away. It’s a shrill, escalating, unpleasant sound rather than a copy of Apple’s Radar or Alarm ringtones. A friend who heard it said it’s such a hateful noise that it would make him head in the opposite direction just to get away from it, so it’ll definitely get some attention if you set it off in Starbucks. Set it off in the wilderness, and no one will think it’s being activated for fun, and that’s exactly what you want.
Previous Next 1 3 Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends The finely grained titanium case, sapphire crystal, and ceramic case back give the Apple Watch Ultra luxury credentials as well as toughness, which is enhanced further by the IP6X dust resistance and 100-meter water resistance. It has also been tested to MIL-STD 810H standards. It feels like it’s built to last, and looks like it’ll take a considerable beating.
When you turn off the Water Lock after the watch has been in the water, it fizzes and whirs as it spits out any unwanted droplets, giving it a surprisingly mechanical feel — like it’s almost alive. It’s still a smartwatch, but this, along with the purposeful looks and go-anywhere attitude, gives the Apple Watch Ultra a surprising amount of character. That character (and the size) made me wear it with my sleeve tucked behind it, showing it off, something I didn’t really do with the Apple Watch Series 7.
All this led to the realization you could actually bond with the Apple Watch Ultra, especially if you end up sharing adventures with it over time. I really never expected to think that about a smartwatch, and it speaks volumes about what Apple has created here.
Making the Apple Watch Ultra more comfortable Apple Watch Ultra with the Solo Loop Andy Boxall / Digital Trends I’ve worn the Apple Watch Ultra with the Ocean Band it came with since launch, but recently wanted to make it a little more comfortable to wear all day, every day. There’s nothing wrong with the Ocean Band, but it’s chunky enough that it can get in the way when you’re not adventuring, and it takes up a lot of room under my cuff.
The solution was to pair the Apple Watch Ultra with the rubber Solo Loop.
 In doing so, I found it suited the smartwatch far more than I expected. The lines work, and it makes it much more comfortable to wear for extended periods. It didn’t entirely disappear on my wrist, but it definitely became less noticeable, as the overall weight dropped to 75 grams.
Apple doesn’t list the Solo Loop as being a band “made” for the Apple Watch Ultra, but don’t dismiss it because of this. I’ve worn the combination for more than a week now, and it’s the way I’ll continue to wear the Apple Watch Ultra. At $50, the Solo Loop isn’t one of the expensive official Apple bands either. Try it, and I think you’ll be pleasantly surprised.
Apple Watch Ultra: fitness tracking Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Open the Workout app either with the usual icon or by using the Action button to see a cool flash of orange on the screen to signify it’s transporting you directly there. You’ll find the same workout modes and system WatchOS 9 offers on other Apple Watch models.
If you track a run, it displays heart rate zones (based on its own algorithm, or you can manually set them yourself), while the general overview can be modified to show stride length, vertical oscillation, and ground contact time. While this information is not exclusive to the Watch Ultra, the larger smartwatch lets you see six different data sets on the screen at one time, making it more informative at a glance.
Operation of the watch’s workout features is also the same as the Series 8 and Watch SE 2. The workout modes are varied and easy to access, and all the relevant data is shown on the big, bright screen. I can see the time, check my heart rate, and quickly jump between it, the compass, and other apps without any slowdown. When you open the Dock using the side button, the compass app even starts working in the helicopter view. It’s all so slick and simple.
The Apple Watch Ultra uses both L1 and L5 GPS antennas to better lock onto satellites and provide more accurate location data. I compared the performance of the Watch Ultra (connected to an iPhone 14 Pro ) against that of the Apple Watch Series 8 (connected to an iPhone SE (2022) to see if there were any obvious differences. The Apple Watch Ultra recorded a more linear and logical route, whereas the Series 8 showed me wandering more, which I didn’t really do. It’s not much of a difference, but I think it’s there, so in my anecdotal tests, the Watch Ultra’s GPS does appear to be more accurate.
Previous Next 1 3 iPhone SE 2022 showing Apple Watch Series 8 data (left), iPhone 14 Pro showing Apple Watch Ultra data Andy Boxall/Digital Trends iPhone SE 2022 showing Apple Watch Series 8 data (left), iPhone 14 Pro showing Apple Watch Ultra data Andy Boxall/Digital Trends iPhone SE 2022 showing Apple Watch Series 8 data (left), iPhone 14 Pro showing Apple Watch Ultra data Andy Boxall/Digital Trends The maps produced in Apple’s Fitness app are detailed, with helpful colors along the route to show your pace, and you can zoom right in to see almost exactly where you walked, ran, or cycled. Compare it to the mapping in the Samsung Health app, and there’s definitely more detail in the Fitness app, but whether it’s truly helpful may depend on your needs.
I still find the split between Apple’s Health app and Fitness app confusing, and would really prefer a single app to handle everything, plus the information presented isn’t as detailed as apps from Garmin or even Samsung. While the Apple Watch Ultra may be more hardcore, the apps and data presented in them aren’t any different from the Series 8 or Watch SE 2, so if you’re just going to track simple workouts. there’s no software advantage to owning the Watch Ultra. It doesn’t mean you shouldn’t, just don’t expect it to offer much more for the casual exerciser.
Apple Watch Ultra: Wayfinder face and compass app Andy Boxall/Digital Trends It may seem strange to dedicate an entire section to a watch face and compass, but these two features demonstrate how beautifully integrated everything is in WatchOS 9 , and where the Apple Watch Ultra stands out against the other Apple Watch models.
The Wayfinder watch face is exclusive to the Watch Ultra and is hugely customizable. The bezel can show elevation and incline or latitude and longitude, plus there are eight complications to set, meaning you have tons of information ready at a glance. While the completed face is busy, it’s not confusing thanks to the very clever, readable, watch-like design and option to change various colors. It also really suits the Watch Ultra. Plus, the Night mode — activated using the Digital Crown — looks amazing when it turns the entire face red. I’ve left it on that mode a lot just for its cool sci-fi looks.
Andy Boxall/Digital Trends The beautifully designed compass is a separate app and part of the Wayfinder face, plus it can be added as a complication for quick access. It updates constantly as you alter direction, there are buttons to mark a waypoint and activate the Backtrack feature, and a tab that provides a greater level of detail. Twist the Digital Crown, and you can not only change what’s shown on the screen, but also see a larger map view in the center of the compass.
I wanted to single these out because I’ve not changed the Wayfinder watch face yet. I haven’t felt the need to, and it’s the first time I’ve ever wanted to use a compass app. And then when I did, I was actually impressed by it. I think they both sum up Apple’s minute attention to detail here. The deep integration is what makes WatchOS 9 such a pleasure.
Apple Watch Ultra: Backtrack Andy Boxall/Digital Trends What about the Backtrack feature? It’s activated from the Compass app, where all it takes is a single tap on the little icon shaped like two feet. If you use the Wayfinder watch face, there’s instant access to the compass using one of the complications. To operate, it does require an additional location setting, called Significant Location, to be switched on (it’s hidden away under Settings > Location > System Services).
 With this done, Backtrack works away in the background.
You don’t notice it until you need it. Tap the footsteps icon again, and Backtrack will lead you back to where you started in the event you get lost. Except don’t expect it to directly lead you back. Backtrack uses the compass app, where a small arrow points you in the right direction, rather than retracing your steps exactly. It’s as the crow flies, which does mean you still have to make decisions along the way.
For example, at a junction, Backtrack showed I should go in a different direction than the way I came, which I knew would still absolutely return me to my starting point, but not in the way I arrived at the point originally. You’ll have to bear this in mind and trust both your instincts and the Watch Ultra’s compass. Depending on the terrain, this could mean encountering situations where you may have to backtrack on Backtrack.
Previous Next 1 5 Backtrack direction marker on the Apple Watch Ultra Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Backtrack direction marker on the Apple Watch Series 8 Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Backtrack direction marker on the Apple Watch Ultra Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Backtrack direction marker on the Apple Watch Series 8 Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Apple Watch Ultra Andy Boxall / Digital Trends The feature is very simple to use. I didn’t notice any additional battery drain when using it compared to when I’m not. And because it works through the Compass app, it’s available regardless of the fitness-tracking app used, so it’s very versatile. This is a different approach to Samsung’s similar feature, where you have to use a GPX map in order to use the Route Back feature on the Galaxy Watch 5 Pro.
If Backtrack sounds like something you’d use or would like to have in reserve, remember it’s a WatchOS 9 feature and also available on the Series 8 and the Watch SE 2. Testing it back-to-back with the Series 8 revealed that the Watch Ultra’s stronger GPS gave more precise directions. While the Series 8 would still have gotten you back, the Watch Ultra was clearly the more accurate of the two. In some situations, those few degrees may make a lot of difference. You can see the variations in the gallery above, just look for the white marker on the inner bezel.
Apple Watch Ultra: screen, software, and performance Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Like the iPhone 14 Pro, the Apple Watch Ultra’s Retina LTPO OLED screen can suddenly boost the brightness to 2,000 nits in sunlight — and it’s highly effective. It’s so noticeable that it’s like you flicked on a light switch. The flat sapphire crystal doesn’t affect viewing angles as I feared, but it is susceptible to reflection.
It’s sharp and colorful too, but with a 1,164 square-millimeter viewing area, it’s not all that much bigger than the 45mm Series 8’s 1,143 square-millimeter display. The size of the case is more about housing the battery and increasing durability than it is about making the screen larger. However, clever use of the software means that in some situations, you do see more on the screen at one time compared to the Series 8.
Apple’s WatchOS 9 is installed just like it is on the Apple Watch Series 8 and the Watch SE 2. The software is fluid, logical, and reliable. I prefer not to overload it with apps (which helps minimize distractions ) and rely on the standard apps and few choice additions most of the time. Apps of all types load and operate quickly, and the App Store is a joy to browse thanks to sensibly sized icons and clearly organized sections.
The Apple Watch Ultra does everything the Series 8 can do and so much more.
The powerful S8 processor is also the same one inside the Series 8 and Watch SE 2, the haptics are wonderful — especially when you twist the Digital Crown or when an alarm sounds — and the speakers are seriously loud too.
Apple Pay works seamlessly and is really easy to set up. I don’t have any plans to try the crash detection or fall detection, but I’m pleased they are there. I feel similarly about warnings about my health from the electrocardiogram, heart rate sensor, and blood oxygen monitoring features.
Andy Boxall / Digital Trends I haven’t been able to try all the features on the Watch Ultra. I don’t dive, so the most I’ve done is submerge the watch in the sink, where it automatically activated the easy-to-read dive gauge with water temperature readout. A special version of the Oceanic+ app is available for the Watch Ultra, and it allows you to plan dives, use the compass, and get more in-depth safety and experience features. Apple says the Watch Ultra is aimed at Professional Association of Diving Instructors (PADI)-qualified divers to a depth of 40 meters. I compared the app to the G-Shock Frogman’s dive computer here.
The Apple Watch Ultra does everything the Series 8 can do and so much more, adding a wealth of niche features and durability. Then, to make sure you can enjoy every bit of the smartwatch for longer, it pushes one key aspect further ahead — which we’ll come to next.
Apple Watch Ultra: battery Andy Boxall/Digital Trends The Apple Watch Ultra’s battery has a 76% larger capacity than those in the Series 8 and Watch SE 2, and Apple claims the battery will last for 36 hours on a single charge without a cellular connection — twice what you should expect from the other models. The good news is it’s not bluster; the Apple Watch Ultra’s battery life is excellent.
Here’s an example. I recharged the battery on its second cycle at 9 a.m. on Tuesday, then used it normally each day. I left it switched on overnight and tracked two indoor workouts, plus a one-hour walk and a 30-minute walk with GPS and Backtrack engaged, over the course of the next few days. At 6 p.m. Thursday, there was still 10% remaining — so I turned on the Low Power mode, and it still had 5% left at 11:30 p.m. On my first days of use, the battery lasted for three full days without as much GPS use.
The Apple Watch Series 7 regularly returned two days of use on a single charge, but that was only with turning it off overnight. To get up to three full days of use from the Watch Ultra with its brighter screen, plus all its extra ability, is great — and a genuine reason to buy.
How does this compare with the competition? Samsung’s rival smartwatch, the $450 Galaxy Watch 5 Pro, also lasted for three days without a recharge, but it did so only if you didn’t track sleep. However, like the Watch Ultra, it’s a big, heavy watch and not really suitable for wearing overnight anyway.
The longer battery life really sets the Apple Watch Ultra apart from its sibling smartwatches.
However, while the Watch Ultra’s battery is good, it can’t beat the marathon battery life provided by dedicated running or activity smartwatches. The $600 Garmin Forerunner 955 Solar’s battery is good for two weeks, and even the smaller, more design-led $180 Vivomove Sport’s battery will last for five days. The Apple Watch Ultra’s battery is powerful for an Apple smartwatch, but in the wider world of high-performance activity smartwatches, it still falls behind.
Should this be a concern? How much this will impact your everyday life depends on what you do in your everyday life. If you regularly run hundreds of miles, hike each weekend, and don’t always have access to power (or intend to use the GPS and Cellular connection every day), then the Apple Watch Ultra will still need charging every couple of days. But if you do these activities every so often, then you’ll spend a lot less time visiting the charger than you would with a Series 8, and three days of use between charges is entirely achievable. The longer battery life really sets the Apple Watch Ultra apart from its sibling smartwatches, and it’s a strong reason to buy this model over any other.
Apple Watch Ultra: Low Power Mode Andy Boxall / Digital Trends As part of watchOS 9.1, Apple introduced Low Power Mode on the Apple Watch.
 The Watch Ultra already has great battery life, but with Low Power Mode, it’s expected to increase to 60 hours in some situations. I put this to the test and was impressed with the results as they surpassed expectations.
Using the Apple Watch Ultra fairly normally, with notifications, some light activity tracking, and controlling music, the battery lasted for five days before it needed recharging. This was without GPS or cellular, and the Low Power Mode switches off the heart rate tracking. The watch definitely isn’t working hard, but this is still a lot longer than even Apple indicates.
What it does is make the Apple Watch Ultra even more versatile. I took the smartwatch away for a long weekend, and even without Low Power Mode, it was still operational (without sleep tracking) on the third day. I could have switched on Low Power Mode at that point and extended the battery life for a couple more days, with only a small drop in usefulness. The Apple Watch Ultra continues to be a battery monster, even six months into its life.
Apple Watch Ultra: a second opinion, from a woman’s perspective Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends I recently upgraded to an Apple Watch Ultra after a bit of skepticism. Originally, despite liking the hardware for the Action Button and the much-improved battery life over the main Apple Watch Series wearables, I was a little hesitant because of the large 49mm size of the Apple Watch Ultra. But as it turns out, the large size is not an issue, despite my smaller wrists.
At first, I kept making comments that the Apple Watch Ultra with the Alpine Loop simply looked too large on my wrist, as the band caused the watch to hang off a bit on the sides. Once I switched out the band to the classic Sport Band, the Apple Watch Ultra no longer looked comically large on my smaller wrists, and it’s been a lot more comfortable to wear. The titanium casing makes the Apple Watch feel lightweight, so it never really feels heavy while being worn. The flat edges take a bit of time to get used to coming from previous Apple Watches, but I’ve ended up preferring the flat edges and display.
Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends As someone who was using the Apple Watch Series 5 for the past few years, battery life was becoming an issue. Since getting the Apple Watch Ultra, however, I no longer have to check how much battery life remains for the day. Even without using Low Power Mode, the Apple Watch Ultra can end the day with around 60% to 70% battery. As someone who doesn’t like Apple’s sleep tracking (the Oura Ring does it better), however, the Apple Watch Ultra ends up on the charger every night to be topped off for the next day. With the Optimized Charging Limit feature, it helps preserve the battery lifespan, which is helpful. But if I was without the charger, the Apple Watch Ultra would easily last at least two or three days with my typical usage — and more with Low Power Mode.
Though the Action Button is a bit limited , it’s one of the best things about the Apple Watch Ultra. With just a push of the button, I can immediately launch a workout in a few taps, and with my most frequent workout, Outdoor Walk, it’s easy to mark segments when needed. When I say limited, I mean it’s a little disappointing that there are only a handful of preset actions you can assign without diving into the complicated world of creating your own Siri Shortcut. Still, the Action Button has proven to be a wonderful little shortcut for some commonly-used Apple Watch functions, and it’s become hard to imagine an Apple Watch without it. Hopefully, the rumored Action button on the iPhone 15 will have even more functionality and customizability.
Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends There are also a couple of things that make the Apple Watch Ultra great for women in particular. First, the body temperature sensor in the Ultra (along with the Series 8) is more useful for women as it can be used to help track ovulation, which helps with family planning. Secondly, the siren that can be activated from the Action Button is useful for females who could find themselves in dangerous situations. Once it’s activated, a shrill pitch sound will emit from the Apple Watch Ultra, which will certainly draw attention to you. Though its original purpose is to signal for help in remote areas, it’s just as useful if you need to get help when there’s a dangerous person lurking about.
Again, as someone with smaller wrists, I wasn’t sure whether I would like having the largest display, as I’ve been getting the smallest Apple Watch size in the past. But the Apple Watch Ultra has shown me that there are many benefits to having a large display, and honestly, you get used to it after wearing it for a while. The 49mm size of the Ultra means you get to have a lot of glanceable information on certain watch faces, so you get more data with a single look. And it’s also been a lot easier to read incoming notifications since more screen estate allows more to be shown. Typing is also possible on the screen, and the on-screen keyboard actually works better than I thought, though sometimes dictation is still easier.
Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends / Digital Trends And as someone who skipped the past few Apple Watch releases, the peak brightness of 2,000 nits outdoors has definitely made a difference. Since I live in sunny Southern California, the Apple Watch Ultra’s high brightness levels outdoors in direct sunlight make it possible to clearly see the display, no matter the situation. The Apple Watch Series 5 I was still using definitely looked dim in comparison with the Ultra. If you are the type of person who does a lot of workouts outdoors, then the Apple Watch Ultra’s bright display is a big selling point.
I originally was skeptical of the Apple Watch Ultra, but it’s become one of my favorite Apple products in recent years. There’s just so much good stuff about the Apple Watch Ultra, from the incredible battery life to the convenient Action Button to the display. Even if you don’t do extreme activities (I certainly don’t), the Apple Watch Ultra is a great smartwatch for everyone.
Apple Watch Ultra: price and availability The Apple Watch Ultra costs $799, or 849 British pounds. There is only one version of the Watch Ultra, and it comes with LTE connectivity as standard. The only decision to make is about which strap to choose.
 It’s the Ocean Band you see in our photos, which is mostly designed to appeal to divers. Alternatively, there’s the Alpine Loop for hikers and outdoor enthusiasts, and the Trail Loop for runners and endurance athletes. You can buy the Apple Watch Ultra now through Apple’s online and retail stores.
This is an expensive watch, but there’s unquestionable value here. Titanium, ceramic, and sapphire crystal all add to the price, plus there’s a massive amount of research and development involved in getting the additional features in place and working correctly. It’s more expensive than a Series 8, which has a lot of the same core functionality, but not vastly more so than many competing high-performance activity smartwatches from Garmin, Suunto, Polar, or Coros. It’s not even that different from the cost of a midlevel traditional diver or field watch from brands like Seiko, Citizen, Casio, or Hamilton.
Apple Watch Ultra: verdict Andy Boxall/Digital Trends While I’ve been using and writing about the Apple Watch Ultra, I’ve called it simply the Apple Watch on more than a few occasions. When I began to give this some thought, it seemed appropriate. The Apple Watch Ultra is clearly the beginning of something new for the company, rather than a one-off or the product of a lazy marketing campaign. What Apple has done with the Watch Ultra is to make it genuinely different from the Series 8 in almost every respect. Not better or worse, but something that stands on its own.
This is the way you should be thinking about it before you buy it. It’s not really an alternative to the Series 8 or Watch SE 2 despite being closely related. It serves different purposes, has its own strengths and weaknesses, and has a series of unique features that wouldn’t fit on a Series 8. You will buy this instead of the Series 8.
The surprising thing is, the Apple Watch Ultra is quite easy to justify. The long battery life is a huge selling point that everyone will appreciate, as is the absolute bulletproof nature of the build and materials. Plus, if you do anything remotely adventurous, it’ll easily keep up all day long. But the thing I didn’t expect was to connect with it personally. It has a character all of its own, and that’s something very few smartwatches accomplish. What’s more, the new features and the simplicity of use is rather inspirational and encourages you to go out and give them a try.
Against the odds, Apple has made a rugged smartwatch that non-rugged people will want to own — and they’ll be very pleased with it when they do. It’s a fantastic start of something really exciting and really different for Apple’s superb smartwatch range.
Editors' Recommendations Apple Watch is bringing back a popular feature soon The 22 best Apple Watch faces you should be using Waiting for the Apple Watch Ultra 3? We have bad news Apple may launch new iPads soon, and you should be excited You’ve probably never seen an iPhone case like this before Apple Apple Watch Product Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Wearable Reviews Wearables Mobile The speculation and leaks are over, and the new devices have been officially revealed. The Made By Google event for October 2023 has left us with three amazing new devices and one incredible feat of software engineering that's sure to be the talk of all smartphone and technology lovers for the next few months. Yes, while the Google Pixel 8, Pixel 8 Pro, and Pixel Watch 2 may have been the hardware stars of the show, it's the Best Take mode that really took our breath away.
Google Pixel 8 Event in 11 Minutes Mobile The 18-karat gold Apple Watch Edition. Apple Apple recently classified its first-generation of Apple Watches as obsolete, according to an internal memo seen by MacRumors.
Mobile The Apple Watch is one of the best smartwatches out there. In general, Samsung, Google, Fitbit and Garmin have products that can compete, but there's something about the Apple touch that can't be mimicked. If you have an iPhone, AirPods, or a MacBook, your best option for easy pairing is an Apple Watch. Of course, Apple products come with a premium price. That's why we've picked out the best Apple Watch deals available. There are currently discounts on all the newest models like the Series 8, SE 2 and Ultra, as well as some older models like the Series 7. Check them out below.
Apple Watch Nike SE (1st Gen, 40mm, GPS) — $129, was $279 This is the Nike edition of the Apple Watch SE (1st Gen), which remains a popular choice for anyone dipping their toe into the Apple Watch world without spending a fortune. Still a great choice for most people, the watch allows you to track all your daily activities from walks to runs, HIIT workouts, to tai chi or yoga. You can also monitor your calorie burn and steps taken with a built-in compass and real-time elevation readings that are ideal for hikers. As well as that, there are high and low heart rate notifications, a heads up if your heart rate suddenly becomes irregular, and extensive notifications to save you from grabbing your phone. The Nike Edition includes the built-in Nike Run Club app.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
