Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Fitbit’s $160 fitness tracker is way better than I expected By Joe Maring Close $160.00 Lightweight and comfortable to wear Robust health-tracking tools Built-in GPS Google apps work well Fast, responsive software Nearly a week of battery life Unreliable notifications No local music storage Many features require Fitbit Premium This fall has been a busy one for Google. The company has released two new smartphones, a new smartwatch, and a new version of Android. But there’s something else that slipped through the cracks amid all that: the Fitbit Charge 6.
Why I love wearing the Fitbit Charge 6 Good news for Google fans The new Fitbit app A few nagging issues Fitbit Charge 6 price and availability Should you buy the Fitbit Charge 6? The Fitbit Charge 6 was announced in September, and it was quickly buried under more exciting announcements for the Google Pixel 8 , Google Pixel 8 Pro , and the Google Pixel Watch 2.
 But to completely overlook the Fitbit Charge 6 would be a mistake. I’ve been wearing it for a little over a week, and for a $160 fitness tracker, it’s an impressive package.
Before you go and spend $350 on the latest Pixel Watch or another smartwatch, here’s why you may want to consider the Fitbit Charge 6 instead.
Why I love wearing the Fitbit Charge 6 Previous Next 1 2 Joe Maring / Digital Trends Joe Maring / Digital Trends After wearing the Apple Watch Ultra and Apple Watch Ultra 2 earlier this year, swapping to the Fitbit Charge 6 came as a bit of a shock. I’ve been using two of the biggest and heaviest smartwatches you can buy, and going to the Fitbit Charge 6’s small, petite design threw me for a curve — but a very good one! The Fitbit Charge 6 looks a lot like the Fitbit Charge 5 that came before it. It has a traditional fitness band shape with a 1.04-inch AMOLED screen and an aluminum body. It doesn’t push fitness tracker design in a bold, new direction, but it works very well. I’ve found the Charge 6 incredibly comfy to wear, the screen looks great, and the included silicone band feels very nice. I often forgot I was wearing the tracker, which is perhaps the best compliment I can give its design.
Joe Maring / Digital Trends I also really like the side button on the Fitbit Charge 6. It’s not a mechanical button, but it looks like a button, and pressing it gives you haptic feedback (sort of like the Home button on the iPhone 7 ). You can press it to wake the Charge 6’s screen or go back to your watch face when you’re in a menu or an app. Fitbit removed the button on the Charge 5, and I’m thrilled to see it make a return here.
Although Fitbit hasn’t created any new health-tracking features for the Fitbit Charge 6, all of the usual suspects are here. The big upgrade this year is an improved heart rate sensor that Google claims is 60% more accurate than that of previous Charge models and offers the “most accurate heart rate on a Fitbit tracker yet.” Joe Maring / Digital Trends Whether going on outdoor walks and running on a treadmill indoors, the Fitbit Charge 6’s heart rate readings are often right in line with the heart rate I get from my Oura Ring — sometimes within a single beat per minute. Some workouts have had larger variances, but that’s usually the case when comparing any two wearables side byside. It’s been a while since I last wore a Fitbit, so I can’t speak too much to how the Charge 6’s readings compare to older models, but I’ve been really pleased with its performance here.
Beyond tracking your heart rate, all of the health/fitness features you’d expect are present. The Fitbit Charge 6 tracks your steps, has over 40 exercise modes to choose from, and can automatically detect select workouts (like walking and running). Some other highlights include: Sleep tracking SpO2 tracking Heart rate variability (HRV) High and low heart rate notifications Irregular heart rhythm notifications ECG app EDA Scan app (for stress management) Previous Next 1 3 Joe Maring / Digital Trends Joe Maring / Digital Trends Joe Maring / Digital Trends The good news is that all of this works as advertised. I really like Fitbit’s sleep tracking; it gives you an easy-to-understand sleep score that’s based on your time asleep, sleep stages, movement, and heart rate. Fitbit’s sleep score is often more generous than my Oura Ring , but it never feels like it’s totally off base. And while I hope I never have to use them, it’s great having irregular heart rhythm notifications on such an affordable fitness tracker.
I often forgot I was wearing the Fitbit Charge 6.
I’ve also been happy with the general performance of the Fitbit Charge 6. The raise-to-wake gesture for the display works well, and swiping through the user interface is very snappy. I expected it to be a bit sluggish, but it’s honestly as fast as I could have asked for.
Joe Maring / Digital Trends There’s one other thing I really love about the Fitbit Charge 6, and that’s the battery life. I began wearing the Fitbit Charge 6 at 9:50 p.m. on Friday, October 13, with the battery fully charged to 100%. It wasn’t until 9:50 p.m. Thursday, October 19, that the Charge 6’s battery finally got down to 16%.
That was with sleep tracking each night and six recorded workouts — including a mix of outdoor walks, treadmill runs, and strength training. This was also with the always-on display turned off. You can turn it on to always see the time without having to tap the screen or raise your wrist, but if you do this, expect that to cut into your battery life a bit.
The Fitbit Charge 6 also recharges fairly quickly. The proprietary charger magnetically attaches to the back of the tracker and takes it from zero to 100% in about an hour and 20 minutes.
Good news for Google fans Joe Maring / Digital Trends Along with its improved heart rate tracking, the other big story about the Fitbit Charge 6 is how it’s been Google-ified. There are a number of Google apps now available on the Charge 6, including Google Wallet, Google Maps, and YouTube Music.
Google Wallet replaces Fitbit Pay and allows you to make contactless payments with your credit or debit card. Swipe down from the top of the Charge 6, tap the Google Wallet icon, and you’re ready to pay. It’s worked flawlessly each time I’ve used it.
Google Maps also hasn’t given me any issues. When you start turn-by-turn navigation on Google Maps on your phone, you can tap an icon on the Fitbit Charge 6 to mirror the directions from your phone on the tracker — including vibration alerts when you need to turn, get off an exit, etc. I found the alerts to be slightly delayed compared to using Apple Maps navigation with an Apple Watch, but it’s still a nice addition to have.
Previous Next 1 2 Joe Maring / Digital Trends Joe Maring / Digital Trends What about YouTube Music? Similar to Google Maps, starting a song on YouTube Music on your phone allows you to pause, resume, and skip tracks on the Charge 6. However, this YouTube Music app is exclusively for controlling playback on your phone. There’s no way to download songs from YouTube Music, or any music app, for that matter, onto the Fitbit Charge 6.
As much as I would have liked to have local music storage, it is exciting to see all of these Google services trickle down to the Fitbit Charge 6. Google Wallet supports more cards than Fitbit Pay did, Google Maps has proven handy a couple of times during my testing, and although I don’t personally use YouTube Music, it’s a great add-on for anyone who does. It’d be even better if it supported offline playback, but I digress.
The new Fitbit app Joe Maring / Digital Trends While you can view many of your health/fitness stats directly on the Fitbit Charge 6, the main way you interact with this data is through the Fitbit mobile app — which received a significant redesign earlier this year.
The core design of the app is largely the same as before. On the Today page, you see your primary goal at the top of the screen, some secondary ones below it, and a list below that detailing your other health data. Fitbit now offers a few different “focus” options to change the four goals at the top of the page, or you can create your own custom focus and select whichever metrics are most important to you. From there, you can show, hide, and rearrange all of your other health data further down on the page.
Joe Maring / Digital Trends I love how much control Fitbit gives you over how the Today page looks. You can prioritize the information you care about the most, hide what you don’t care about, and the UI for this is all super intuitive — just tap the pencil icon on the Today page and you’re ready to start customizing things.
The other two pages, Coach and You, also work well. Coach is where you’ll find all of Fitbit Premium’s guided workouts and mindfulness sessions. The library has a really generous amount of content to sift through, and you can easily search for workouts by activity type, duration, your preferred instructor, and more. The You page offers shortcuts to your personal health goals, Fitbit friends, and badges.
Previous Next 1 2 Joe Maring / Digital Trends Joe Maring / Digital Trends Overall, I think this updated Fitbit app looks quite nice. You’re still seeing the same data as before, but many of the pages have been updated with a more modern, simplified look. The Fitbit app always felt outdated to me, and this update does a (mostly) good job of cleaning things up. There are a few pages here and there that still use the old app design, but for the most part, this is a welcome change. Now just give me a dark mode, Fitbit. Please.
A few nagging issues Joe Maring / Digital Trends I’ve been surprisingly happy with the Fitbit Charge 6, but there are a few issues that hold it back from being a home run. My biggest gripe is that notifications are extremely unreliable. During my first day with the Charge 6, I was confused as to why I wasn’t getting any notifications from my Google Pixel 8 Pro. As it turns out, you have to manually enable notifications from the Fitbit app and then select which apps on your phone that you want to send notifications to the tracker. This isn’t explained anywhere during the setup process, and figuring it out took me longer than I’d like to admit.
However, even after enabling notifications, I’ve still had trouble with them. Some days, notifications are sent to the Charge 6 without fault and work as intended. On other days, I don’t receive any notifications at all — despite not changing any settings. In my experience, notifications have long been hit-or-miss with Fitbits, and that doesn’t appear to have changed with the Fitbit Charge 6.
I already mentioned it above, but the lack of local music storage on the Fitbit Charge 6 really is a bummer. The tracker has built-in GPS, opening up the possibility of going on runs or walks without hauling your phone with you, but not offering any way to store songs on it just kills that convenience for me.
Joe Maring / Digital Trends Finally, I don’t love how many features are locked behind Fitbit Premium. You don’t need Fitbit Premium in order to use the Fitbit Charge 6, but many of its best features are locked behind the subscription — including your Daily Readiness Score, guided in-app workouts, in-depth sleep- and stress-tracking data, mindfulness sessions, and more. If you’re interested in buying the Fitbit Charge 6, you should plan on getting a Fitbit Premium subscription if you want to get the most out of it.
Fitbit Charge 6 price and availability Google The Fitbit Charge 6 is available for purchase now.
 It costs $160 and is available in three styles: an obsidian band with a black aluminum case, a porcelain band with a silver case, or a coral band with a champagne gold case. You can buy it from the Google Store, Fitbit’s website, and retailers like Amazon and Best Buy.
The Fitbit Charge 6 also comes with a six-month free trial to Fitbit Premium, a $60 value. After that, Fitbit Premium costs $10 a month.
Andy Boxall / Digital Trends How does all of that stack up to the competition? The Pixel Watch 2 also uses Fitbit’s health/fitness platform, but you get a couple of additional sensors (a temperature sensor and a continuous EDA sensor), plus a full-fledged Wear OS smartwatch experience. However, at $350, it’s also considerably more expensive — and it’s subject to the same Fitbit Premium membership.
Another option to consider is the Garmin Vivomove Trend.
 It’s a hybrid watch that looks great, shows basic health data on a hidden screen, and works with the excellent Garmin Connect app — giving you access to a wide range of health tracking tools, all without any subscription needed.
Should you buy the Fitbit Charge 6? Joe Maring / Digital Trends I’ll be honest: I didn’t expect to be all that impressed by the Fitbit Charge 6. On paper, it’s the least interesting of Google’s most recent hardware releases, and it doesn’t look all that different from the Charge 5.
The Fitbit Charge 6 really surprised me.
But after wearing and living with the Fitbit Charge 6, I’m happy to admit that it really surprised me. If you don’t want to wear a smartwatch, but still want to track your health and fitness — and with pretty comprehensive fitness tracking at that — the Fitbit Charge 6 is a great option. It’s comfortable, has just about every health/fitness feature you could ask for, delivers great battery life, and is paired with a very good companion app. And at just $160, it’s one of the better values out there. The Fitbit Premium element cuts into that a bit, but if you value what comes with the subscription — from the extra health data to the guided workouts — it’s very much still worth it.
Not everyone wants a smartwatch. Not everyone wants to spend $300-plus on a fitness tracker. Some folks want a wearable that’s small, affordable, and reliably tracks their activity. That’s precisely what you get with the Fitbit Charge 6. If it’s the type of wearable you’re looking for, it’s one of the better options you can get.
Editors' Recommendations The future of Fitbit doesn’t look good Best Fitbit deals: Nearly every fitness tracker model is on sale Best Fitbit in 2023: 6 best watches and trackers Fitbit Versa 4 vs. Fitbit Sense 2: Which new Fitbit wins? Fitbit’s excellent sleep tracking is about to get even better Fitbit Fitness Tracker Reviews Health & Fitness Product Reviews Wearable Reviews Wearables Mobile If you've been around kids for a while, you know they love gadgets. Many parents are concerned their children are gripped by technology, but this doesn't always have to be a bad thing. Devices like fitness trackers can be useful for kids to encourage movement in a way that's actually fun, and they can help keep them fit and outside in a way not usually associated with technology as a whole. Intrigued? Here's a roundup of the best fitness trackers for kids.
Best fitness trackers for kids Fitbit Ace 3 Fan of Fitbit and want to get one for your kid? Consider the Fitbit Ace 3, a kids' version of the classic Fitbit fitness tracker. It tracks the number of steps taken, monitors movement, sends activity reminders, and even has bedtime alarms to make the parents' job easier. The tracker is waterproof so you don't have to worry about accidental spillage, and the kids can even take it swimming.
Mobile The Fitbit Luxe launched in July 2021 and was reviewed by our smart home editor, John Velasco, as a beautifully designed and modestly sized fitness tracker. It has now received two major updates bringing new features to the table.
Version 1.151.16 has added SpO2 measurements that allow users to track their blood oxygen saturation levels when asleep. SpO2 tracking is currently available in devices such as the Fitbit Charge 4, Charge 5, Fitbit Versa 2, and the Fitbit Versa 3, so it's nice to see it roll out to other devices in Fitbit's lineup. To use the function, check the SpO2 tile on the watch face or the Health metrics tab on the mobile app. Additionally, Fitbit has published a detailed manual on tracking Sp02 levels with this model.
The second major update enables always-on-display functionality. As the name suggests, users no longer need to wake up their Luxe trackers to check the time or their workout tracking data. To use the feature, it's essential to enable the updated display functionality in Settings. You'll be warned that the feature can increase battery drain, so keep that in mind if runtime is important to you.
The new Fitbit Luxe Fitbit Apart from these two updates, there are several smaller ones. A bigger font size has been added to the trackers' screen, along with a series of bug fixes and patches. These updates are being rolled out on an incremental basis and may take some time to reach particular regions. To check if an update is available for the device, you should be able to see a pink banner when you log into the Fitbit App, and you'll be notified of further updates once they're available.
Mobile Following a high-profile leak that spilled most of the beans, Google-owned Fitbit today announced the Charge 5, an upcoming addition to the company's lineup of fitness trackers. On the outside, the Charge 5 borrows heavily from the Fitbit Luxe, with a sleek, rounded, colorful display. Under the hood, though, is where you can find all the goodness.
Vibrant always-on display The most noticeable change in the Charge 5 is the always-on display that lets you check your health stats instantly and curves to fit the wristband. The always-on feature can be turned off to help you eke more battery life from the device. If you want to wake the display, all you need to do is raise your wrist.
Built-in GPS Similar to the Charge 4, the new Charge 5 will ship with built-in GPS to track your outdoor activities. Not only will you be able to view your activity on a map, but the Charge 5 will also display your workout intensity along the GPS track. You'll be able to see at a glance where you were pushing yourself to your limit and where you were taking it easy.
New stress-monitoring sensor The Charge 5 joins the Fitbit Sense as Fitbit's first trackers to feature an EDA sensor, which measures your sweat to monitor your stress levels. The sensor is used to generate a Stress Management Score to help you manage your daily stress levels.
Daily Readiness Daily Readiness is a new metric added to Fitbit's Premium service. Like Garmin's body battery, the Daily Readiness Score takes heart rate variability, sleep, and activity into account to calculate your overall energy level. This new metric determines whether you are ready for a crushing workout or an extra-long nap. Daily Readiness helps athletes manage their exercise and recovery schedule so they can get the most out of their activities.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
