Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? I reviewed the Withings ScanWatch 2. It isn’t like other smartwatches By Andy Boxall Close $350.00 Beautiful design Comprehensive health monitoring FDA approved for atrial fibrillation 38mm or 42mm case sizes Long battery life Unreliable notifications Subscription needed to unlock features App design can frustrate If you want a smartwatch that tracks your health, but doesn’t look like a piece of tech on your wrist, choosing from the usual suspects is quite challenging. What you should do instead is look at the Withings ScanWatch 2. On the surface, it appears to be a classy traditional watch, but it hides some impressive and highly accurate health-monitoring tech inside.
Withings ScanWatch 2: design Withings ScanWatch 2: what about the technology? Withings ScanWatch 2: fitness tracking Withings ScanWatch 2: sleep tracking Withings ScanWatch 2: app and connectivity Withings ScanWatch 2: battery and charging Withings ScanWatch 2: price and availability Withings ScanWatch 2: verdict Sounds ideal, right? I’ve been wearing it for a while to see if it lives up to expectations.
Motorola’s newest smartwatch isn’t at all what you’d expect The Apple Watch SE 2 makes Apple’s cheap smartwatch better than ever Withings smart ScanWatch Horizon looks just like a desirable diver’s watch Withings ScanWatch 2: design Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Hybrid smartwatches bridge the gap between normal watches and smartwatches, combining a degree of connected functionality with traditional looks, which makes them very attractive to those who don’t want a full touchscreen watch on their wrist. The Withings ScanWatch 2 is one of the finest-looking hybrids you can get, just like its predecessor.
There’s no question the ScanWatch 2 looks, feels, and wears like a non-smart watch. It has two physical hands and a complication showing progress to your step goal at 6 o’clock. The case is made from stainless steel, the dial is covered in sapphire crystal, it has a 5ATM water resistance rating, and there’s a crown on the right-hand side, but no other buttons or means of control. It does have a screen, which is located in the top half of the dial, but it’s not always active.
Andy Boxall / Digital Trends The screen comes on when you raise your wrist or press the crown and also shows the time. And when you rotate the crown, it displays your heart rate, steps, workout modes, blood oxygen level, skin temperature, and other functions. It’s bright and clear but never intrusive. It’s not quite as hidden as the Garmin Vivomove Trend’s screen, but from a distance, you wouldn’t really know it was there. This helps further advance the ScanWatch 2’s traditional watch look.
It did take a few days to get used to the weight of the ScanWatch 2, which isn’t especially heavy at 74 grams, but I’d come from the 58-gram Google Pixel Watch 2, which is very light indeed. Acclimatization was mostly required when I wore it at night, and I did notice it the first few times. It got better, but there’s some heft behind the ScanWatch 2, and it still feels a little arduous to wear it every night, at least compared to the Pixel Watch 2 and the Apple Watch Series 9.
Andy Boxall / Digital Trends The ScanWatch 2 comes with a very soft silicone strap. It’s light, very flexible, and super light. I appreciate the buckle and keeper combination, which helps keep the strap under control as it is quite long. On my 6.5-inch wrist, I either used the fourth or the fifth hole, leaving 11 holes spare, so it’s unlikely many people will have a problem getting it to fit comfortably. It’s a standard quick-release pin fitment, so you can easily change it for any 20mm strap if you prefer.
Classy, understated, comfortable, and well-made, the ScanWatch 2 is a pleasure to wear every day. It goes with everything, never looks out of place, and certainly doesn’t look like a piece of technology. It’s not overtly sporty, and the raised indices on the dial look expensive and catch the light attractively, while the baton hands have a coating of lume so you can see them in the dark.
Andy Boxall / Digital Trends The domed sapphire crystal has a beautiful sheen, the bezel is slim, and the crown is perfectly sized to easily turn with your fingertip. The ScanWatch 2 is a thoughtfully designed and incredibly stylish watch I’m happy to wear all the time, regardless of the smart tech hidden inside.
Withings ScanWatch 2: what about the technology? Andy Boxall / Digital Trends The tiny grayscale OLED screen is just 0.63 inches and represents the only really visible tech aspect of the ScanWatch 2. On the back of the watch — which is also made of stainless steel — is Withings’ redesigned multi-wavelength PPG heart rate sensor and its TempTech 24/7 module for body temperature readings. The watch also has an accelerometer and an altimeter, which have been upgraded over the original ScanWatch.
It’s the way these sensors work together that makes the ScanWatch 2 special.
 By measuring skin and ambient temperature, along with heart rate and movement, it can provide 24/7 body temperature data. This is useful for understanding your health, performance and recovery, and for more accurate and useful period tracking, too.
Temperature data on the ScanWatch 2 Andy Boxall / Digital Trends The ScanWatch 2 can take an electrocardiogram reading, and it has been approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for atrial fibrillation detection. Plus, you can take on-demand blood oxygen readings. It will alert you about a low or high resting heart rate and, in the future (after a software update), about an irregular heart rate.
There are multiple workout modes, all accessed on the watch, to track. During strenuous exercise, the ScanWatch 2 uses the TempTech 24/7 module to track your body temperature and splits it into three different zones: Warm up, Performance, and Overheating. This is different from the more common method of using your heart rate, and Withings claims it’s easier to understand your peak performance state and not overtrain. The temperature data informs a recovery time graph.
Andy Boxall / Digital Trends The Withings ScanWatch 2 connects to both Android and iOS smartphones using the Withings Health app, and it can be linked to Apple Health, Google Fit/Health Connect, Samsung Health, Strava, RunKeeper, Nest, IFTTT, and MyFitnessPal. I have been using the ScanWatch 2 connected to a Samsung Galaxy Z Flip 5 and encountered no problems related to the setup.
Withings ScanWatch 2: fitness tracking Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Starting a workout on the ScanWatch 2 can take a bit of effort, as you have to scroll through the menu and then scroll through workout modes before starting. However, it is possible to set a long press of the crown to open the workout mode and to customize the list of available workouts, which saves some time. I like how pausing and ending a workout requires a long press of the crown, too, so you’re unlikely to do it by accident. You can set the screen to stay active when working out or have it turn off to save battery.
It does have an automatic workout-tracking feature, but it’s not very good. It doesn’t show a notification like on the Apple Watch or Pixel Watch; it just tracks whatever it thinks you’re doing, leaving you to discover it in the app later on. Multiple times, it has “tracked” me cycling, despite me not having peddled an inch in years, yet it has missed my daily walks, which the Oura Ring happily picked up. This is annoying because it throws off your stats and forces you to go in and edit the activity, but only if you notice it when looking through the app. It’s even worse if you didn’t spot it and you don’t remember what you were actually doing at the time.
Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Track a workout manually, and the app shows GPS-related location data, elevation changes, heart rate data, and exercise zones, plus temperature-driven Temperature Zones. It also gives you a Fitness Level score and tracks improvements over time. What the ScanWatch 2 doesn’t do is endlessly push you to do more or even remind you to get up and move around. It’s very “hands-off” unless you toggle some of the settings, and even the app doesn’t send notifications about your progress much.
This is where the ScanWatch 2 differs from a full touchscreen smartwatch. It’s less intrusive and leaves a lot of the discovery and motivation down to you. It’s less goal-focused and instead relies on suggesting missions in the app rather than pushing you to do something like take more steps. I found I looked at the watch less during a workout and simply checked stats after I’d finished, which is a different approach than when I exercise with a smartwatch. I generally felt less tied to, or beholden to, the ScanWatch 2.
What the ScanWatch 2 doesn’t do is endlessly push you to do more.
It’s also important to know the Withings ScanWatch 2 is not a fitness tracker on the level of a Garmin Epix Pro (Gen 2) , and it won’t satisfy hardcore exercisers. The functionality is more on the level of a fitness tracker like the Fitbit Charge 6 , just in a far more attractive package and without the same emphasis on doing more. It’s more about improving health through metrics and less about driving fitness forward.
Withings ScanWatch 2: sleep tracking Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Wear the ScanWatch 2 to bed, and it automatically activates sleep tracking. This has worked perfectly every time for me, and the data it provides is extensive and informative. Sleep tracking is definitely one of its strong points, provided you can get past the weight of wearing the watch overnight. I’ve worn the ScanWatch 2 alongside a third-generation Oura Ring so that I can compare sleep-tracking results. Both these products emphasize how important sleep is to our overall health, both take temperature into account, and both products cost the same.
Overall, they provide results that are extremely close to each other. During my tests, the Sleep Scores have often been the same or within a few points of each other. The duration is usually only split by a few minutes, and both caught the same nighttime interruptions at the same times, too. Below are two sets of screenshots that show how the Oura Ring and ScanWatch 2’s data compare and how they often match up quite closely. Where the two differ is in the amount of data gathered and shown that’s related to body temperature.
Fron left: Oura Ring workout results, sleep data, and temperature data Andy Boxall / Digital Trends The Oura Ring provides a single number for the day, giving you a basic insight into changes to your temperature, while the ScanWatch 2 tracks changes continuously and plots results on a graph, so you can see how it changes throughout the day, and can even see how it correlates to your activity too. The majority of the data is shown in the app, but you can also see changes on the watch’s screen, where it highlights if your body temperature moves out of its expected baseline region.
From left: Withings ScanWatch 2 workout results, sleep data, and temperature data Andy Boxall / Digital Trends With more data available, covering a greater amount of time, the ScanWatch 2 does help you better understand your body temperature. However, what you can do with this information is quite limited. You can see the fluctuations, but the app doesn’t tell you much about what it means, leaving it down to you to make assumptions. While the granular data may indicate changes to your health more rapidly than the Oura Ring’s single average number — and also help judge recovery times — many peoplemay find the extra information superfluous. Anyone wanting to track periods may find it more helpful, but Oura’s excellent partnership with Natural Cycles provides more actionable data.
The ScanWatch 2’s overnight temperature tracking is impressive, but it does seem slightly underutilized, which stops it from pulling ahead of the Oura Ring when it comes to sleep tracking. Fitbit and Samsung Health’s sleep tracking is compatible as well.
Withings ScanWatch 2: app and connectivity Taking an ECG on the ScanWatch 2 Andy Boxall / Digital Trends The ScanWatch 2 has the right design and is packed with impressive sensor technology. It’s not too hardcore in its approach to activity, the sleep tracking is excellent, and — for the most part — the fitness tracking is solid. However, the package is let down by the app and its connectivity.
Open the app, and you’re not greeted by your latest stats, but instead by panels showing notifications and daily missions, forcing you to scroll down to find your daily measurements. The missions aren’t always very helpful, as they include reading articles in addition to actual activities to complete, while Notifications show badges and other articles or tasks related to optimizing the watch. Once you get to the data collected, it’s clearly presented, and a tap of each panel shows more information. At the bottom of the page is some historical data.
Andy Boxall / Digital Trends There are two other tabs: Measure, which shows all your current and historical health data, and Achieve, which contains challenges and long-term goals, along with advertisements to buy other Withings products. The Health app is quite simple, and while it does provide everything you’d normally want to know, it can provide a lot more, but only if you pay.
That’s right, it has a subscription package, and that’s where the juicier elements are hidden. You must spend $10 per month to get a Health Improvement Score, additional health data, Daily Missions to help build new habits, and Advanced Insights to see how all your data works together.
It’s much like Fitbit’s approach, as you’re left wondering why you paid so much money for the hardware, only to be shortchanged when it comes to the insights into the data you supply. The app doesn’t really inspire you to pay for it, either. It’s not the most intuitive design, and basic functions like changing your weight are pointlessly hard to find. Plus, there are feature issues, too, such as the Fitness Level defaulting to the oldest record first, making you swipe away until you eventually find the most recent one.
Withings ScanWatch 2 app screenshots Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Notifications are very unreliable. When they do arrive, formatting on the small screen is often poor. For example, Outlook notifications scroll through your own email address before getting to the meat of the message. And it shows the sender’s name immediately after the notification arrives, but it’s usually gone before you’ve woken up the screen. Short messages are obviously more helpful, but nothing can be recalled on the screen or interacted with either. It’s best to treat notifications as a basic alert more than anything else.
Finally, the app lacks customization, so it’s hard to fix the design issues. The Withings app experience is less user-friendly than Fitbit’s, and you’ll get more from Garmin and Samsung Health without paying anything extra. It lets down the ScanWatch 2.
Withings ScanWatch 2: battery and charging Andy Boxall / Digital Trends I have been wearing the Withings ScanWatch 2 for 11 days at the time of writing, using mostly standard settings, including blood oxygen measurements on demand rather than constant. I have tracked one workout on half this amount of days and tracked sleep for eight of the 11 nights. Starting with a full battery, it is now down to 40% remaining.
This indicates it will miss Withings’ claim of 30 days battery life, as it seems unlikely the battery will last for another 19 days based on its current performance and my (fairly moderate) use. There’s a chance the watch’s sensors may be working a little harder during the initial phase, when it establishes baselines, and battery life may improve after a few weeks of use.
Andy Boxall / Digital Trends It comes with a proprietary charging block, which has a clever spring-loaded section that securely grips the watch’s case when it’s on charge, ensuring it won’t stop charging if you bump it. The battery takes about two hours to charge.
At this time, the ScanWatch 2’s battery life falls short of expectations, and even if it does improve once it has finished collecting all the relevant data it needs (and that is only speculation on my part), I’m still not sure it’ll reach 30 days if you track a workout and sleep every day. However, even if it lasts 20 days, this is still far longer than you’d get from most other smartwatches, making battery life a strong reason to buy.
Withings ScanWatch 2: price and availability Andy Boxall / Digital Trends The Withings ScanWatch 2 comes in two different case sizes: 42mm (which I’m wearing in the photos) or 38mm. The 42mm version comes in black or Pearl White with a stainless steel case, while the 38mm adds a Sand or a blue version with a Rose Gold case to the list. There’s also the opportunity to purchase different straps when you buy the ScanWatch 2 through Withings’ website.
 The ScanWatch 2 costs $350, or 320 British pounds, regardless of which case size or finish you choose.
This is around the same price as the $400 Apple Watch Series 9 , the $350 Google Pixel Watch 2 , and the $400 Samsung Galaxy Watch 6 Classic , all of which are full smartwatches and therefore offer more functionality. Only the Pixel Watch 2’s fitness platform has a subscription attached. None have any form of FDA approval, and none share the ScanWatch’s same in-depth body temperature tracking feature.
Previous Next 1 5 Apple Watch Series 9 Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Google Pixel Watch 2 Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Samsung Galaxy Watch 6 Classic Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Garmin Vivomove Trend Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Oura Ring Andy Boxall/Digital Trends However, I don’t think the decision about which one to buy will come down to features. The ScanWatch 2 differs massively in design and in intention. This is as much of a watch as it is a health and fitness tracker, and it puts an emphasis on the accuracy of data and the health benefits of understanding it rather than pushing a long list of features you may never use. While the prices may be comparable, the ScanWatch 2 will likely appeal to a different set of people — and may also sway those disillusioned by high-tech designs that haven’t changed much year-over-year.
Instead, it’s the $270 Garmin Vivomove Trend that those keen on the ScanWatch 2 should look at as an alternative, as it has a watch-like design, physical hands, and a small hidden screen. The Garmin platform is great, and there’s no subscription, either. Alternatively, the $350 Oura Ring should be considered. It’s a brilliant sleep tracker, the app is superb, the design is attractive, and it’s effortless to wear.
Withings ScanWatch 2: verdict Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Hybrid smartwatches are in short supply these days, so it’s wonderful to see Withings go all-in on making a fantastic example of one. It has the winning design we all want and plenty of relevant technology inside that is so accurate that the FDA has given its approval to a particular feature. This gives you confidence in the data overall, and having that level of trust in a device monitoring your health is a very big deal.
However, the app and its subscription model sours the package a little, as the app on its own feels quite basic, and it’s clear there are more interesting and helpful features hidden behind the paywall. The app and its connection to the watch don’t make me want to pay either, due to questionable design decisions and poor notification support. It’s certainly not awful; it just needs to be much slicker than this to encourage a $10-per-month spend. The app and notification reliability could be improved with software updates.
I think it’s also important to understand the ScanWatch 2’s limitations, as despite its looks and the unique temperature module, it’s a relatively standard health and activity tracker. Don’t buy it thinking it’s anything more than that. All that aside, the ScanWatch 2 wears as good as it looks, and if you’ve been constantly perturbed by fitness trackers of all types taking a tech-first approach, then the ScanWatch 2 is the watch you’ve been waiting for.
Editors' Recommendations This Pixel Watch 2 leak just made it the 2023 smartwatch I can’t wait for Everything announced at Apple’s September 2022 event: iPhone 14, Watch Ultra, AirPods Pro 2 Finally, you’ll be able to buy the Withings ScanWatch in the U.S. this November The new TicWatch Pro S smartwatch isn’t really new at all Huawei’s upscale Watch GT2 Pro puts an emphasis on health and long battery life Product Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Wearable Reviews Wearables Wearables This story is part of our continuing coverage of CES 2020, including tech and gadgets from the showroom floor.
“Eighty percent of the people with sleep apnea, don’t know they have sleep apnea,” a Withings representative told Digital Trends when we took a good look at the new Withings ScanWatch at CES 2020. When that many people are afflicted by a condition that has the potential not just to drastically lower the quality of life, but in the worst-case scenario, increase the likelihood of serious and life-threatening medical conditions, a neat device to help identify problems is very welcome.
Wearables Honor has launched the Honor MagicWatch 2, following a selection of teasers about the smartwatch, and whether it's really magical to you may depend on if you've seen the Huawei Watch GT2, as the heritage is very clear. There are two versions, a 46mm model and a 42mm model, and both are made from 361L stainless steel. They available in four different colors -- agate black and sakura gold for the 42mm MagicWatch, and flax brown and charcoal black for the 46mm watch, and have interchangeable straps.
There are some design differences between the two watches, which we'd had hints about after seeing some design drawings of the MagicWatch 2. The 46mm model, apart from being bigger and therefore suited to those who either have larger wrists or like a bolder watch design, has a sporty chronograph look. The 42mm model is simpler and smaller, and although the sakura gold version is obviously aimed at women, the black 42mm MagicWatch 2 looks suitably unisex.
Design and fitness tracking Wearables The smartwatch previously teased by Honor will be called the Honor Magic Watch 2, it will be out before the end of the year, and this is what it will look like. The company showed Digital Trends the Magic Watch 2’s design sketches, revealing more about the look of the watch, compared to the early Halloween-themed teaser released at the end of October.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
