Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Reviews Forget the Google Pixel Watch 2 — I found a great alternative By Andy Boxall Close $290.00 Two-day battery life Very fast charging Great performance and software Big, bold design Only one case size No IP rating You know the old saying, “Be careful what you wish for?” Well, I think it may be true. Over the past week, I’ve been wearing the Xiaomi Watch 2 Pro. It is much bigger than the Google Pixel Watch 2 , which is a bit too small.
All about the Xiaomi Watch 2 Pro The biggest difference over the Pixel Watch 2 Using the Xiaomi Watch 2 Pro Workout and health tracking A bargain alternative to the Pixel Watch 2 The trouble is, this one is really a bit too big for my wrist. Yes, I know I’m hard to please, but the more I wear the Xiaomi Watch 2 Pro, the more it feels like the anti-Pixel Watch 2, and the more I think it is a worthy alternative to Google’s vastly improved — yet terribly dainty — smartwatch.
All about the Xiaomi Watch 2 Pro Andy Boxall / Digital Trends The Xiaomi Watch 2 Pro, size issues aside, has turned out to be one of the best smartwatches of the year. It uses the Qualcomm Snapdragon W5+ Gen 1 platform , just like the Mobvoi Ticwatch Pro 5 , and it’s an absolute powerhouse. The Pixel Watch 2 uses the Snapdragon W5 chip, where Google chose a different, lower performance co-processor to go with it, compared to the higher spec one that comes as standard with the W5+ chip. It really makes a difference as the Xiaomi Watch 2 Pro is a rocket ship, even compared to the speedy Pixel Watch 2.
It’s great to see more wearables use Qualcomm’s latest range of suitable chips, and perhaps even better to see Xiaomi has used Google’s Wear OS 3.5 software for the Watch 2 Pro instead of its own proprietary software. It pairs with Xiaomi’s Mi Fitness app, I’ve been using it with the Google Pixel 8 , and everything from initial setup to downloading apps has been faultless. The app itself is straightforward and logically laid out, reminding me more of Samsung Health’s approach to data than Fitbit’s.
Andy Boxall / Digital Trends The heart rate sensor on the back also monitors blood oxygen and stress levels, plus the watch will measure your Body Composition, just like the Samsung Galaxy Watch 6.
 Is there anything missing from the specification? It doesn’t have extensive safety features like fall detection, and there’s no ECG, but GPS is onboard, you can program in a contact to send an alert to in an emergency, and there’s the option to buy a model with an LTE connection too.
Inside is a big 495mAh battery, and with the always-on screen active and a single workout tracked, it will easily last for two days. However, Xiaomi disables all-day blood oxygen and stress monitoring by default, and turning these on means the smartwatch may need recharging the evening of day two if you track both sleep and a GPS workout. Still, this is great performance, especially considering it’s also driving a large, colorful screen.
The biggest difference over the Pixel Watch 2 Andy Boxall / Digital Trends OK, now that we’ve learned about the impressive specification, let’s talk about the size. Simply put, everything about the Xiaomi Watch 2 Pro is big.
 On the front is a 1.43-inch screen with a 466 x 466 pixel resolution and a peak of 600 nits brightness. It’s wrapped in a massive 47.6 x 45.9mm case that’s 11.8mm thick, making it slightly larger and thicker than even the 47mm Samsung Galaxy Watch 6 Classic.
 There’s nothing in the design to hide its overall massiveness either, as the screen has a thick, bold, flat bezel around it, and two buttons flank a large crown on the right-hand side.
It really is the anti-Pixel Watch 2, which embraces its minimalism to the point it has no standout design features to give it any character of its own at all. The Xiaomi Watch 2 Pro is the opposite, with its bold, black case, oversized crown, and textured edge on the unmissable bezel.
Previous Next 1 4 Xiaomi Watch 2 Pro (left) and Google Pixel Watch 2 Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Xiaomi Watch 2 Pro (left) and Google Pixel Watch 2 Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Google Pixel Watch 2 (left) and Xiaomi Watch 2 Pro Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Google Pixel Watch 2 (left) and Xiaomi Watch 2 Pro Andy Boxall / Digital Trends If the Pixel Watch 2 disappears on your wrist, the Xiaomi Watch 2 Pro announces it’s there with a bellow. It’s not lightweight either at 79 grams with the strap. Its size and weight make it uncomfortable for me to wear all day and night, unlike the Pixel Watch 2.
But just like the Pixel Watch 2, the Xiaomi Watch 2 Pro only comes in a single size. It’s huge, or nothing. While I personally prefer the statement-making look of the Xiaomi Watch 2 Pro, it barely looks sensible on my 6.5-inch wrist. It’s the same conundrum I face with the Pixel Watch 2, just the opposite way around. Yet neither company gives me the choice to try a smaller or larger model, so everyone is stuck with just one option.
Using the Xiaomi Watch 2 Pro Andy Boxall / Digital Trends This is the third time in 2023 I’ve faced this situation, as the Mobvoi Ticwatch Pro 5 is also only available in a single size, limiting its appeal. But let’s say you’re fine with the Xiaomi Watch 2 Pro’s size; what is it like to use? It’s excellent. Xiaomi has added its own interface to Wear OS, and it closely mirrors its own MIUI interface found on Xiaomi’s phones with lots of colors, big fonts, and clear typefaces that make seeing and interacting with the smartwatch easy. The crown can be rotated to navigate the menus, while a long press calls up Google Assistant. Swipe left or right to view different informative tiles, plus there’s the option to add many additional ones to the list.
It took me a while to get used to one interface difference over other Wear OS smartwatches, though, as a swipe up on the screen shows Quick Settings and a swipe down shows your notifications. This is the opposite of most other smartwatches, and I can’t see any functional reason why it has been altered. But it can be forgiven when the software is so fast, with everything from Google Maps to YouTube Music launching and reacting instantly.
Previous Next 1 3 Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Andy Boxall / Digital Trends The screen sometimes needs a bit of a prod to register an action, but it’s mostly when the smartwatch has just woken up, and Raise-to-Wake needs to be active if you want to see notifications when they arrive without tapping the screen. This will drain the battery a little more, as will activating automatic workout detection. The haptic vibration is subtle but noticeable, however, there’s sadly no way to alter the intensity if you’d like it a little more pronounced.
I like how fast the battery charges. The magnetic puck has two locating pins so it snaps securely to the back of the watch, and in my tests, it usually beat Xiaomi’s promise of recharging in 45 minutes by doing so in just 40 minutes. When you then consider the battery has the ability to last two days under many circumstances, the Xiaomi Watch 2 Pro never feels like a burden, especially when the powerful chip makes the software so effortless too.
Workout and health tracking Andy Boxall / Digital Trends The optical heart rate sensor on the back measures heart rate and blood oxygen levels, both of which can be active all day. There’s a skin temperature sensor that also assists with menstrual cycle tracking. While there’s no ECG feature, it does return a body composition measurement. Open the app, touch the two buttons at the same time, and less than 30 seconds later, the smartwatch returns data including body fat, muscle mass, water, bone mass, protein, and your BMI. Xiaomi makes it clear it’s not medical advice, but it could help track improvements over time. It’s arguably a feature that will be more useful to more people than an ECG.
There are 150 activities to track, plus built into the watch’s software are a variety of guided running workout sessions to follow, along with guided relaxation sessions. Starting a workout is performed through the app or from a dedicated Tile, but unfortunately, there’s no obvious way to personalize the Tile to show your favorite workouts, and because there are so many, it can be a little time-consuming to find the one you want if it’s not walking or running. That said, it’s fast and easy to get things going — just be aware Xiaomi also has a voice guidance system that’s active by default, so it will shout your stats to everyone around you unless you turn it off.
Previous Next 1 4 Screenshots taken from the Mi Fitness app Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Screenshots taken from the Mi Fitness app Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Andy Boxall / Digital Trends The Xiaomi Watch 2 Pro’s case is made of stainless steel, and there’s a choice of either the rubber strap seen in our photos — or a leather version attached to a silver case. It all feels very solid and durable, but there’s no IP rating or military standard certification for toughness, so it makes do with 5ATM water resistance which means it’s fine for swimming.
The Mi Fitness app presents its data clearly, and there’s plenty of depth and information. It’s great for casual and semi-serious exercisers, but anyone really into running may want to look at a smartwatch like the Garmin Forerunner 265 , or multi-sports fans may prefer the Garmin Epix Pro (Gen 2).
A bargain alternative to the Pixel Watch 2 Andy Boxall / Digital Trends You can probably tell I’m taken by the Xiaomi Watch 2 Pro, but I haven’t gotten to the best part yet. In the U.K., it costs 240 British pounds, which is $290. That’s 110 pounds less than the Google Pixel Watch 2 and the Samsung Galaxy Watch 6 Classic, making it superb value for money. Even the LTE version is just 290 pounds, or about $350.
The adoption of Wear OS 3.5, with its improvements over previous versions, makes the Xiaomi Watch 2 Pro far more appealing than models with Xiaomi’s proprietary software. Plus, it’s one of the few smartwatches to use the highest performance Qualcomm chip available for wearables too. The fact it all works so faultlessly and then costs less than the competition makes it hugely exciting.
Andy Boxall / Digital Trends What a shame the Xiaomi Watch 2 Pro joins the Pixel Watch 2 and the Ticwatch Pro 5 in only offering a single case size, like it or not. I’m not going to bang on about why this is shortsighted when it comes to watches again, as I’ve already had plenty to say about the matter.
But if the Xiaomi Watch 2 Pro suits your wrist, it’s available to buy where you live, and you feel the Google Pixel Watch 2 is too small, then it could just be the ideal smartwatch for you.
Editors' Recommendations The Google Pixel 8 just got its first update. Here’s what’s new There might be something wrong with the Google Pixel Watch 2 OnePlus is about to put the Google Pixel 8 Pro to shame Forget the Google Pixel 8, another new Google phone just leaked Google’s Pixel 8 trade-in deals are absolutely embarrassing Android Google Pixel Product Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Wearable Reviews Wearables Mobile During its Made by Google event in New York, Google revealed the next generation of its smartwatch with the Google Pixel Watch 2. Though it looks very much like the original Google Pixel Watch, there are a lot of improvements that Google made this year.
For one, the new Pixel Watch 2 has an all-new quad-core CPU, 24 hours of battery life with the always-on display enabled, more accurate heart rate readings, a new skin temperature sensor, and better integrated and more refined buttons. In addition, the crown offers smoother navigation throughout. And all of this is packed into a new 100% recycled aluminum casing that is 10% lighter than its predecessor's.
Mobile The speculation and leaks are over, and the new devices have been officially revealed. The Made By Google event for October 2023 has left us with three amazing new devices and one incredible feat of software engineering that's sure to be the talk of all smartphone and technology lovers for the next few months. Yes, while the Google Pixel 8, Pixel 8 Pro, and Pixel Watch 2 may have been the hardware stars of the show, it's the Best Take mode that really took our breath away.
Google Pixel 8 Event in 11 Minutes Mobile Google’s Made by Google event has come and gone, giving us a new lineup of Pixel devices — including the Google Pixel 8, Google Pixel 8 Pro, and Google Pixel Watch 2.
There’s a lot to love about the Google Pixel 8 Pro, especially. It features a new Super Actua display with up to 2,400 nits peak brightness, making it one of the brightest displays on a smartphone yet. You also get the new Tensor G3 chip, a 50MP main camera with 48MP ultrawide and 48MP telephoto cameras, and pro controls for the camera app.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
