Featured Topics Newsletters Events Podcasts Featured Topics Newsletters Events Podcasts Magazine View previous issues MIT News Magazine The Mind issue The brain is the most complex bit of technology on the planet. This issue looks at how neuroscience is learning how this mass of cells and connections somehow produces the mind—and all the mysterious and essential parts of being a human that go with it.
Letter from the editor View previous issue View next issue Mike Perry Features Categorized in Artificial intelligence What an octopus’s mind can teach us about AI’s ultimate mystery Machine consciousness has been debated—and dismissed—since Turing. Yet it still shapes our thinking about AIs like GPT-3.
Categorized in Biotechnology and health The quest to learn if our brain’s mutations affect mental health For years scientists have tried to find a gene for conditions like schizophrenia, Alzheimer’s and autism. But the real source could lie in a much more complex genetic puzzle.
Categorized in Biotechnology and health The miracle molecule that could treat brain injuries and boost your fading memory Discovered more than a decade ago, a remarkable compound shows promise in treating everything from Alzheimer’s to brain injuries—and it just might improve your cognitive abilities.
Categorized in Biotechnology and health The world’s largest collection of malformed brains The 100 or so jars contain brains that once belonged to patients at the Austin State Hospital, a psychiatric facility.
Categorized in Biotechnology and health The hunt for hidden signs of consciousness in unreachable patients Experts may not agree on what consciousness is or isn’t. But that hasn’t stopped Marcello Massimini from peering into the minds of those with profound brain injuries to determine if anyone is still inside—and how to proceed with treatment.
Categorized in The pandemic endgame How to mend your broken pandemic brain Life under covid has messed with our brains. Luckily, they were designed to bounce back.
Categorized in Poetry Five poems about the mind Also in this issue This is how your brain makes your mind Your mind is in fact an ongoing construction of your brain, your body, and the surrounding world.
Categorized in Biotechnology and health Is your brain a computer? We asked experts for their best arguments in the long-standing debate over whether brains and computers process information the same way.
Categorized in Computing This is what happens when you see the face of someone you love The moment we recognize someone, a lot happens all at once. We aren’t aware of any of it.
Categorized in Humans and technology Five things we got wrong about the brain We made a comic to explain the truth behind some common misconceptions.
Categorized in Comic Eight ways scientists are unwrapping the mysteries of the human brain Optogenetics and advanced imaging have helped neuroscientists understand how memories form and made it possible to manipulate them.
Categorized in Biotechnology and health I taught myself to lucid dream. You can too.
We still don’t know much about the experience of being aware that you’re dreaming—but a few researchers think it could help us find out more about how the brain works.
Categorized in Do it yourself How big science failed to unlock the mysteries of the human brain Large, expensive efforts to map the brain started a decade ago but have largely fallen short. It’s a good reminder of just how complex this organ is.
Categorized in Biotechnology and health Our brains exist in a state of “controlled hallucination” Three new books lay bare the weirdness of how our brains process the world around us.
Categorized in Humans and technology How technology can let us see and manipulate memories Optogenetics and advanced imaging have helped neuroscientists understand how memories form and made it possible to manipulate them.
Categorized in Biotechnology and health Is everything in the world a little bit conscious? The idea that consciousness is widespread is attractive to many for intellectual and, perhaps, also emotional reasons. But can it be tested? Surprisingly, perhaps it can.
Categorized in Philosophy “I understand what joy is now”: An MDMA trial participant tells his story One patient in a pioneering trial describes his “life-changing” experience with the psychoactive drug.
Categorized in Humans and technology A piece of our mind Over the decades this publication has repeatedly explored the topic of what we know—or don’t yet know—about our own brains.
Categorized in From the archives Past issues Updated The latest iteration of a legacy Advertise with MIT Technology Review © 2023 MIT Technology Review About About us Careers Custom content Advertise with us International Editions Republishing MIT News Help Help & FAQ My subscription Editorial guidelines Privacy policy Terms of Service Write for us Contact us twitterlink opens in a new window facebooklink opens in a new window instagramlink opens in a new window rsslink opens in a new window linkedinlink opens in a new window
