Indaba Programme Posters and Demos Coding and Practical Sessions Workshops Location and Venue Accomodation Useful Contacts Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) Code of Ethics and Conduct Sponsorship Organisers IndabaX Awards Mentorship Mentees Mentors Code of Ethics and Conduct Blog About Our Mission Indaba Ubantu Reports Past Editions 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 Indaba Programme Posters and Demos Coding and Practical Sessions Workshops Location and Venue Accomodation Useful Contacts Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) Code of Ethics and Conduct Sponsorship Organisers IndabaX Awards Mentorship Mentees Mentors Code of Ethics and Conduct Blog About Our Mission Indaba Ubantu Reports Past Editions 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 Quick Info for Indaba Week For some more info, here is the Welcome Booklet (pdf) and the Programme (pdf).
Indaba March 2022: The Deep Learning Indaba 2022 has the theme of Masirouna and is happening this week 21 to 26 August.
Follow us on twitter for update! Indaba Mentorship Programme is live! The Deep Learning Indaba Mentorship Programme aims to strengthen the African ML community via the development of fundamental skills and is LIVE now! Sup’Com Tunis, Tunisia The Deep Learning Indaba is the annual meeting of the African machine learning community with the mission to Strengthen African Machine Learning.
In 2022, the Indaba aims to see 350 members of Africa’s artificial intelligence community for a week-long event of teaching, research, exchange, and debate around the state of the art in machine learning and artificial intelligence.
After not taking place these past two years, we excited to announce the Deep Learning Indaba for 2022 that will be held in Tunis, Tunisia, from the 21st to the 26th of August.
Featuring: • Keynote talks from thought leaders in the fields of ML/AI and Ethics • Opportunities to learn skills in our practical (programming) sessions • Mentorship opportunities • A Research in Africa Showcase Day • Two days of Workshops on topics including NLP; AI in Healthcare; Reinforcement Learning; Machine learning at the Edge; AI Governance and Policy And Much More! Visit our website regularly and follow us on Twitter for updates The event is free for students and we offer travel and accommodation grants to as many people as we can.
Applications to participate in person are now closed.
Deep Learning Indaba 2022 sponsors Nile Congo Zambezi Limpopo Zitoun Contact us Deep Learning Indaba Strengthening African Machine Learning info@deeplearningindaba.com Indaba 2022 Location and Venue Sponsorship IndabaX Awards Mentorship Blog About Copyright © Deep Learning Indaba 2017 - 2023. All Rights Reserved.
