Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Best phone deals: Save on iPhone 15, Google Pixel 7, and more By Bruce Brown and Briley Kenney Close It is time. Time for a phone upgrade and a new, hopefully more responsive device. If it’s been a while, or you haven’t been paying much attention to the smartphone market, you’re in for a shock. You may find yourself overwhelmed with all the options that are available to you from brands like Apple, Samsung, Google, and more. To help you determine the best smartphone for you, we’ve gathered the top phone deals that you can shop right now across different retailers. You’re going to have to decide quickly though, because the discounts attached to these devices usually don’t last long. Proceed with your purchase as soon as possible so that you don’t miss out on the low prices.
Apple iPhone 15 — Free with Boost Mobile, was $830 Apple iPhone 15 Pro — Free with Boost Mobile, was $1,000 Apple iPhone 15 Pro Max — Free with Boost Mobile, was $1,200 Nokia G100 Unlocked — $130, was $200 Apple iPhone SE (3rd Gen) — $149, was $379 OnePlus Nord N200 — $170, was $200 OnePlus Nord N30 5G Unlocked — $270, was $300 Samsung Galaxy A54 5G A Series — $350, was $450 Google Pixel 7 — $498, was $599 OnePlus 11 5G Unlocked — $600, was $700 Motorola Edge+ Unlocked (2023) — $700, was $800 Samsung Galaxy S23 Unlocked — $700, was $800 Samsung Galaxy Z Flip 5 Unlocked — $900, was $1,000 Sony Xperia PRO-I Unlocked — $1,000, was $1,800 Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra Unlocked — $1,085, was $1,199 Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 5 Unlocked — $1,800, was $1,920 Apple iPhone 15 — Free with Boost Mobile, was $830 Apple If you’re looking to save on iPhone models, specifically the latest ones, it doesn’t get any better than free. You can read more about the specs and experience of the latest Apple device in our iPhone 15 vs. iPhone 14 comparison, which breaks down the major differences and upgrades. As for the deal, you’ll pay $0 for the phone at checkout — other than taxes and shipping — when you activate and finance the phone through Boost Mobile. After checkout, Boost collects a $60 activation fee, but don’t worry, that will be credited toward your first month’s wireless bill, so you don’t effectively lose any money on this deal. Needless to say, it’s a really good one, let alone for the latest iPhone models. Hurry, while it lasts.
Apple iPhone 15 Pro — Free with Boost Mobile, was $1,000 Apple To make sure you don’t choose the wrong model, review the iPhone 15 vs. iPhone 15 Pro comparison first. There are a few stark differences that you’ll want to be made aware of. It’s the same deal for this phone through Amazon and Boost Mobile. You’ll pay $0 for the phone at checkout — other than taxes and shipping — when you activate and finance the phone through Boost Mobile. After checkout, Boost collects a $60 activation fee, but it will be credited toward your first month’s wireless bill. Great phone, great deal, what are you waiting for? Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
Apple iPhone 15 Pro Max — Free with Boost Mobile, was $1,200 Apple As it’s another free iPhone, also available through Amazon and Boost Mobile, the same details apply here. The phone will be $0 at checkout, excluding taxes and shipping, as long as you activate and finance the phone through Boost Mobile. After checkout, Boost collects a $60 activation fee, but it’s applied as a credit on your first month’s wireless bill. It doesn’t get much better than free, folks. Talk about ways to save on iPhone, right? Nokia G100 Unlocked — $130, was $200 Nokia Compatible with all major U.S. carriers and available unlocked, this Nokia smartphone can certainly play with the big boys. It has a 6.2-inch HD+ display, 128GB of storage with a MicroSD slot for more, 4GB of system RAM, and a triple rear camera at 5MP, 2MP, and 8MP (front-facing). The 5,000mAh battery should last all day, even with lots of use, and it supports 15-watt fast charging for a quick boost when you need it most.
Apple iPhone SE (3rd Gen) — $149, was $379 Andy Boxall/Digital Trends If you don’t mind getting a smartphone that’s locked to a Straight Talk prepaid plan, then you can have the third-generation Apple iPhone SE , the latest version of the entry-level iPhone, for a very cheap price. The iPhone SE 2022 may be affordable, but it doesn’t sacrifice too much because it’s equipped with a 4.7-inch Retina HD display, a 12MP Wide camera at the back, a 7MP FaceTime HD camera at the front, and Apple’s A15 Bionic chip that’s also used by the iPhone 13 series. The budget iPhone also offers the Touch ID fingerprint recognition system and IP67 water resistance.
OnePlus Nord N200 — $170, was $200 OnePlus The OnePlus Nord N200 is an unlocked Android smartphone with 5G support, a 6.5-inch Full HD+ LCD screen with a 90Hz refresh rate, and a 5,000mAh battery that will let the device last through your day. The smartphone offers 4GB of RAM and 64GB of built-in storage, though you can expand it by up to 256GB using a microSD card. The OnePlus Nord N200 also features a 13MP triple-camera system, a fingerprint recognition system at the side, and the Qualcomm Snapdragon 480 processor.
OnePlus Nord N30 5G Unlocked — $270, was $300 Joe Maring/Digital Trends / Digital Trends In his OnePlus Nord N30 review , Joe Maring says it’s “one of the best $300 smartphones” of the year. It feels great in the hand and offers a headphone jack — which is rare these days — plus expandable storage options. The 120Hz display looks smooth and pairs nicely with the exceptional performance. Plus, it comes with a 50-watt charger in the box. This is at a time when most brands are removing peripherals and charging adapters — even some of the newest phones don’t come with a charger anymore. But basically, if you have $300 to spend, and want a stunner of a device for that price range, here you go.
Samsung Galaxy A54 5G A Series — $350, was $450 Andy Boxall/Digital Trends / Digital Trends The Samsung Galaxy A53 is another affordable 5G smartphone that’s made by one of the most popular brands in the market. It’s got a 6.5-inch Full HD Super AMOLED screen that’s bright and gorgeous, a long-lasting battery, and powerful performance with the Samsung Exynos 1280 processor and 6GB of RAM. The smartphone offers built-in storage of 128GB that you can expand nu up to 1TB using a microSD card, and it features an intelligent camera system with a 64MP main camera at the back and a 32MP front camera.
Google Pixel 7 — $498, was $599 Andy Boxall / Digital Trends The Google Pixel 7 is one of the best phones around right now, and if you want to understand the difference, our Google Pixel 7 versus Google Pixel 7a gives you a direct comparison between the two models available. The Pixel 7 has a superb camera in the form of a 50MP main camera that offers optical image stabilization and laser autofocus. There’s also a 12MP wide-angle camera with a 114-degree field-of-view, and video can be filmed at 4K resolutions at up to 60 frames per second. Its 6.3-inch AMOLED screen has a 90Hz refresh rate, so everything looks great with its stereo speakers enabling you to watch streaming content in style. Additional features like a fingerprint sensor under the display, the ever-useful Magic Eraser tool, and many more details make this a phone powerhouse for the price.
OnePlus 11 5G Unlocked — $600, was $700 OnePlus / OnePlus The OnePlus 11 is a “real OnePlus phone” and a “true return to form,” as put forth in Digital Trends’ OnePlus 11 review.
 In other words, OnePlus has really outdone itself here thanks to its eye-catching design, two-day battery life, and excellent software update commitment — you’ll be getting software updates long into the future if you get one of these. It will quietly fit into your life with no extra fuss, meaning you’ll have a seamless daily experience with reliable performance, excellent software, and lots of features — like the characterful camera.
Motorola Edge+ Unlocked (2023) — $700, was $800 Joe Maring/Digital Trends / Digital Trends You wouldn’t know it at first glance, but the 2023 Motorola Edge+ certainly has the potential to be a Pixel 7 Pro and Galaxy S23 killer. You can read more about it in our Motorola Edge+ review , but there’s a lot to love here. Let’s list out the benefits, shall we? You get a premium, comfortable design, an absolutely gorgeous OLED display, two days of battery life on a single charge, a 68-watt wired charger included in the box, Motorola’s fantastic Android interface, a great update policy for future software upgrades, and a very, very competitive price, especially with this current deal. Do we really need to say more? Samsung Galaxy S23 Unlocked — $700, was $800 Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends The Samsung Galaxy S23 was just released earlier this year, so don’t miss this chance to buy it for a cheaper price. You’ll be getting a smartphone with a 6.1-inch Dynamic AMOLED 2X display featuring Full HD+ resolution and a 120Hz adaptive refresh rate, extremely fast performance with the Qualcomm Snapdragon 8 Gen 2, and a triple-lens camera system headlined by a 50MP main camera with optical image stabilization. The base model of Samsung’s flagship smartphone won’t let you down.
Samsung Galaxy Z Flip 5 Unlocked — $900, was $1,000 Tushar Mehta / Digital Trends Remember the old flip phones of yore? Remember how satisfying it was to snap them closed when you were done? One thing they didn’t feature was extra usability when they were closed — they didn’t have an external display like the Galaxy Z Flip 5 does. If you want to know how that functionality fares in the real world, have a look at our Galaxy Z Flip 5 review.
 Here’s a spoiler: It’s really good.
Sony Xperia PRO-I Unlocked — $1,000, was $1,800 Sony Sony’s Xperia PRO-I employs an older, almost retro-inspired design that espouses chonky, candy bar-style devices when they first came to market, but that’s not a bad thing here. It still manages to be quite slim with some absolutely feature-rich camera specifications. For starters, it uses a 1-inch image sensor and phase detection autofocus, with reduced noise in low-light settings and reduced camera reflections during shots. The F2.0 and F4.0 dual aperture allow for a lot of experimentation, plus the triple camera and 3D iToF sensor calculate the correct distance between the camera and the subject of a shot. An anti-distortion shutter keeps things clear and in focus while suppressing the rolling-shutter effect, you sometimes see with comparable devices. But here’s what you need to know above all: The Xperia PRO-I camera is quality.
Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra Unlocked — $1,085, was $1,199 Andy Boxall / Digital Trends We described the Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra as the best, most complete Android phone yet, as it’s powered by the incredibly powerful Qualcomm Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 For Galaxy with 12GB of RAM and 512GB of storage, and it’s equipped with a 6.8-inch Super Dynamic AMOLED screen that offers a 120Hz adaptive refresh rate. Its camera system features a 200MP lens at the back — the highest camera resolution on a smartphone — and it also comes with the S Pen stylus as an additional input option for the massive touchscreen.
Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 5 Unlocked — $1,800, was $1,920 Prakhar Khanna / Digital Trends In his Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 5 review , Andy Boxall showers it with endless praise, calling it “the best foldable of its kind” with a thinner, lighter design than ever. He also praised its silent yet reliable hinge quality, the use of strong multitasking tools, a fun, social-media friendly camera, and IPX8 resistance rating with durable chassis. But other than the primary features, he loved his experience with the phone, and these days, the software is everything. It’s no secret that Samsung’s phones have improved considerably in recent years, but the Galaxy Z Fold 5 is one of its best launches yet. And wouldn’t you know it? You can get it for a nice discount right now.
Editors' Recommendations 75 best Amazon Black Friday deals on laptops, TVs, Apple, and more Google Pixel Black Friday deals: Pixel 8, Pixel Watch, Pixel Buds and more Black Friday Apple Watch deals: Save on Series 9, Ultra, and more Best prepaid SIM Black Friday deals: Boost Mobile, Mint Mobile, and more Best Black Friday tablet deals on iPads, Fire Tablets, Samsung, and more Deals Android Apple Cheapest Prices Google Mobile If you're planning to buy from Black Friday tablet deals, one brand that you should definitely consider is Samsung. With the Samsung Galaxy Tab line ranging from affordable to premium, you'll definitely find a model that suits your needs, and with the discounts from Black Friday deals, you've got the chance to enjoy massive savings with your purchase. These tablets compete with the best iPad Black Friday deals. You're going to have to hurry though, because we're not sure how long stocks will last and when the offers will expire. To help you make a quick decision, we've highlighted our favorite bargain, as well as some of the top Samsung Black Friday deals on tablets that are still available right now.
Our favorite Samsung tablet Black Friday deal The specifications of the Samsung Galaxy Tab A8 is far from what you'll find in the best tablets, as it's only equipped with an octa-core Unisoc processor and 3GB of RAM. However, for most people who only want to buy a tablet for basic functions like browsing the internet, checking social media, and watching streaming content, this device will prove to be more than enough. The Android tablet's 10.5-inch touchscreen features 1920 x 1200 resolution, which makes it large and sharp for a budget device, and while internal storage is limited at 32GB, you can add more space for your photos and videos through an up to 1TB microSD card. Already affordable at its original price of $199, the Samsung Galaxy Tab A8 is currently even cheaper at $149 following a $50 discount from Walmart for Black Friday.
Mobile You already know the drill. If you want the best Apple products, you'll have to pay premium prices. That's just how the game works, right? If you're paying attention to the season, however, you'll see that Black Friday deals are already here. These deals can knock even the priciest Apple products down to a level where most of us can afford them. But, if you want to take those savings to the next level, the absolute best way is to look for refurbished products, which will lower the price even more. Quality refurbished products from trusted companies like Backmarket and Amazon, which pass rigid quality controls and come with excellent guarantees, are a great way to find low prices on Apple goodies. Furthermore, by using these services, we reduce the amount of plastics that need to be manufactured from the Earth's precious resources.
Here are the best refurbished Apple Black Friday deals that we've found across a variety of product styles.
Best refurbished iPad Black Friday deals Mobile Black Friday deals mean plenty of chances to save big on new gadgets you might want such as a new Fitbit. Fitbits are one of the best ways to track all your steps, calories burned, and all kinds of other things so you can work towards becoming the best you that you can be. Throughout the year, there are plenty of Fitbit deals around but things get extra special during the holidays season. We've picked out some of the best Fitbit Black Friday deals around below, some that rival the best Black Friday Apple Watch deals and Garmin Watch Black Friday deals. Further down, we've also looked at what you need to know about them so you choose the right one for you this Black Friday.
Best Fitbit Black Friday deals Fitbit Ace 3 -- Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
