Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Upcoming PS5 Games PlayStation Plus Best PS5 Games Connect PS5 Controller to PC Best PS5 Headsets How to Turn Off PS5 Free PS5 Games Xbox Series X vs PS5 PS5 Voice Commands Home Gaming Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best video game consoles for 2023 By Sam Hill and Joseph Yaden Close It's a fantastic time to be a gamer — when it comes to platform choice, there have never been more options available.
You could grab a PlayStation 5 and enjoy its killer lineup of exclusives or dive into the Xbox Series X's deep game library (not to mention the fantastic deal that is Game Pass ). Fandoms aside, the race between the two major consoles is closer than you'd think.
Or, if portability is a priority, you might be considering the time-tested Nintendo Switch or even giving the more experimental Steam Deck a shot.
We've spent a considerable amount of time with all these systems and can safely say that whichever one you pick is a solid choice. From impressive visuals to smooth performance and the ability to take your gaming experiences on the go, these devices have something for everyone.
Whatever your gaming needs are, we'll help find the right video game console for you. These are the best video game consoles to buy in 2023.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
More More More More More Martin Katler / Unsplash Playstation 5 The best gaming console Speedy hardware Excellent game load times Solid storage Lots of must-own exclusives New controller with enhanced haptics Awkward design, even on new model Why you should buy this: It’s the latest iteration of one of the most popular consoles of all time and has the best exclusive lineup of any console to date.
Who it's for: Everyone.
Why we picked the PlayStation 5: With lightning-fast load speeds, a new controller, and a phenomenal lineup of titles (including fan favorites and new exclusives), the PS5 is the best plug-and-play gaming platform available.
First of all, the PS5 currently has the upper hand when it comes to games. PlayStation gamers have been enjoying Sony exclusives like God of War: Ragnarok , Horizon Forbidden West , and Spider-Man: Miles Morales.
 Xbox fans, on the other hand, have been subject to a slimmer list of top-tier exclusive. Sony also has finally brought backward compatibility into the fold, too, and the PS5 will be able to play most PS4 games, so you won't miss out on late-gen titles like The Last of Us Part II and Ghosts of Tsushima.
 The PS5 simply has the best game library out there right now.
The PS5's solid launch lineup is only part of the equation, however. Slightly larger than the DualShock 4, the new DualSense controller refines haptic feedback, incorporating a precise sense of touch into the gaming experience that force feedback never achieved. If you're draining your stamina bar to pull back a bowstring or attempting to bust down a locked door, for example, the hand triggers can convey that tension. Of course, if you need a little more from your controller, you can always shell out for Sony's improved DualSense Edge controller.
Speaking of peripherals and hardware, both iterations of the console use AMD chips across the board, including an eight-core CPU running on a modified version of the Ryzen line. The PS5’s GPU also is from AMD and provides 10.28 teraflops of power, while supporting resource-intensive processes like ray tracing , which allows for more advanced lighting in games. It also comes with a 4K Blu-ray player, putting it in line with the Xbox One S and Xbox One X. In layman's terms, the PS5 is technically less powerful than the Xbox Series X, but still packs a punch and represents a massive upgrade from last-gen consoles.
On top of all that, the PS5 will soon have its own designated virtual reality headset in the PlayStation VR2 -- we haven't gotten a chance to give it a test run just yet, but the list of launch titles is very impressive.
If discs aren't your thing — or you simply want to save some cash — look no further than the PS5 Digital Edition.
 It retails for $100 less than the standard PS5 but is identical in terms of specs. The only difference between the two is that the Digital Edition has no disc drive, meaning Ultra HD Blu-rays are out of the equation, and you'll need to rely on digital downloads. Everything else, including the launch lineup, remains the same.
More Hanif Jackson / Digital Trends Xbox Series X The best Microsoft gaming console Gobs of potential More storage than PS5 Accessible library through Game Pass Good value Lacking big exclusives Difficult to fit in most A/V cabinets Next-gen potential is untapped Why you should buy this: It's the most powerful Xbox available right now, and Game Pass is an attractive value.
Who it's for: Players who want to play as many new games as possible with the best visual fidelity.
Why we picked the Xbox One X : The Xbox Series X is a tech powerhouse. The console features 12 TFLOPS of power and up to eight times more graphical performance than Xbox One, not to mention twice as much as the Xbox One X. The Xbox Series X also has 16GB of GDDR6 RAM and supports variable refresh rate, Variable Rate Shading technology, and a low-latency mode that allows for better responses out of your games. The power in this next-gen console is sure to wow gamers — that is when there are true next-gen games available for it.
The Series X launch lineup was a little lackluster for a while — Halo Infinite was the big launch title and has since petered out — but 2023 looks like it's going to be a big year for the console with exclusive titles like Redfall and Starfield on the way, along with plenty of other launches throughout the year.
In the meantime, Xbox Series X owners have no shortage of games to play. Xbox Series X will support every previous generation of Xbox games , similar to how Xbox One did. This means you’ll be able to play select Xbox, Xbox 360, Xbox One, and Xbox Series X games all on the new machine — a huge win for game preservation. The Xbox also is home to Game Pass, the best deal in gaming. With more than 100 heavy-hitting games on the roster and promises of Project xCloud integration , gamers can explore and test out new titles for a low monthly fee. The library isn't made up of last-gen throwaways, either; there are plenty of newer first-party titles that'd cost you a premium if you were to go out and buy them right now. Given Game Pass is available on PC as well , the Series X also allows for more cross-platform opportunities than Sony's offerings.
While the Xbox Series X is a powerful machine, it's also a surprisingly quiet one. The console's cooling architecture is incredibly efficient, so much so you might wonder if the console is even on at times. The Xbox One, by comparison, is as loud as can be.
Nintendo Nintendo Switch The best portable game console Game at home or on the go Sharp display Unique multi-mode controller Excellent game library Great battery life Limited internal storage Some controller options are uncomfortable Why you should buy this: You want a console gaming experience — but on the go with unmatched first-party support.
Who it's for: Everyone.
Why we picked the Nintendo Switch: Nintendo sidestepped the current console arms race by changing not how you use your console, but where. The Switch is a hybrid device that plugs into a TV, like the PS5 and Xbox Series X, but also works as a handheld.
While it doesn't quite have the oomph to play the latest 4K, 120 fps releases slated for next-gen consoles, the Switch can play Doom at a smooth 30 FPS anywhere you want, and that's more than enough for a lot of gamers. In addition to contemporary titles like Control, the Switch is a fantastic venue for reviving modern classics , such as The Witcher 3 , L.A. Noire , and Dark Souls Remastered.
More than just a clearance house for lightly-aged AAA titles, the Switch also offers an ever-growing catalog of fantastic first-party games like Super Mario Odyssey , The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild , and Animal Crossing: New Horizons , as well as excellent indies such as Stardew Valley , Celeste , and Ori and the Will of the Wisps.
 Add in some old-school Nintendo nostalgia with a growing list of NES and SNES games through Nintendo Switch Online, and the Switch is a well-rounded console.
The Nintendo Switch is also a great companion console for anyone who already owns a PlayStation or Xbox console. It can do things the competition can't, and offers a host of great titles that will likely never appear on a Sony or Microsoft system.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Steam Deck The best premium portable console A massive library of Steam games Best specs of any handheld system Customizable controls Terrible battery life Why you should buy this: It features a massive library of high-quality Steam games that look and run admirably.
Who it's for: Players looking for console-like performance and selection on the go.
Why we picked Steam Deck: The Nintendo Switch made us hungry for high-quality games on the go, but sadly, the system was never powerful enough to run fan-favorite third-party titles you'd find on PlayStation, Xbox, or PC. The Steam Deck makes that dream a reality, giving you access to a huge chunk of games available on Valve's platform without sacrificing too much quality. Sure, the games don't look and run as great as they would on a powerful PC, but the Steam Deck does a surprisingly good job of showcasing graphically intensive games in a way Nintendo Switch never could.
Aside from featuring a robust lineup of games (that are shared across your Steam account), the Steam Deck offers plenty of control customization, a clean UI, and a reasonable price. We also can't overstate how nice it is to jump into the system and see all the games available that you've purchased over the years through Steam. Sure, not every game is compatible with the device, but practically every new release works on Steam Deck, making it well worth the purchase.
Sadly, the Steam Deck is still hard to find, just as many new consoles are. You can visit Valve's site to pre-order one, but don't expect to get your hands on it for several months.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Nintendo Switch OLED The best premium Nintendo console Improved screen Improved onboard audio Much better kickstand Cleaner dock design No upgrades for TV Storage is still small Why you should buy this: The Nintendo Switch OLED is a mid-generation upgrade that boasts a bigger, better screen and a flurry of bells and whistles to warrant the price of entry at $350. It's ideal for those who are jumping into the Switch family for the first time, especially if you plan on primarily playing in handheld mode.
Who it's for: Players who want a better-looking screen in handheld mode or who play online while docked. It's great for users who plan on upgrading or who have never owned a Switch system before.
Why we picked the Nintendo Switch OLED: We picked up the OLED to take advantage of the bigger, more vibrant screen. It's fascinating just how much better the new OLED screen looks compared to the LCD display on the original model.
 And the larger 7.0-inch screen on the new OLED model is a major improvement, giving you a bit more mileage out of the device without increasing the size of the machine overall.
The Switch OLED is an excellent choice because it uses all the accessories from the previous model including Joy-Con controllers , dock, microSD memory cards, and, of course, games. This means users who are upgrading can use all of their old accessories on the new OLED model.
While the Switch OLED does play all the same games as the original Switch, games simply look better on the new machine — at least in handheld mode. When placing both systems side by side, it's easy to see the difference between the two screens.
 Since the OLED has a built-in LAN port in the dock, you'll be able to plug in an Ethernet cable to enjoy online gaming without some of the headaches that come with using Wi-Fi.
Users who like to play in tabletop mode will be pleased with the Switch OLED's new kickstand, which covers the entire backside of the system. This is a huge improvement over the thin, flimsy kickstand on the original model. Overall, the original Switch still gets the job done, but the OLED model is a significant improvement in more ways than one. Like the original Switch, the OLED won't run games at a higher fidelity but is perfect for those who love high-quality Nintendo games or ports of older beloved classics — especially in handheld mode.
Julian Chokkattu/Digital Trends PlayStation 4 Pro The best budget game console 4K gaming for less than $500 Improves visuals on select PlayStation VR titles Makes all games run slightly better than standard PS4 Looks good even on 1080p TVs Supports all PS4 games HDR can be difficult to set up Very few titles offer 4K support at launch No 4K Blu-ray Player Why you should buy this: This last-gen console has a healthy catalog of top-tier games and the price tag has dropped since the release of the PS5.
Who it's for: Anyone who wants to game without breaking the bank.
Why we picked the PlayStation 4 Pro: While plenty of gamers are making the jump to the PlayStation 5, there's still a lot of life left in last-gen consoles. The PlayStation 4 Pro is still a serious gaming machine with a vast library of games , and the console's price tag (and the cost of games, accessories, etc.) only is going to continue to drop. The PS4 Pro is also slightly easier to find than the PS5, though, most modern consoles have suffered from low availability following the recent chip shortage. The PS4 Pro delivers an impressive playing experience for 4K television owners because of the enhanced graphics and sharper images for 4k-enabled titles.
We're not going to pretend that the PS4 Pro is close to matching the superior PS5 , but it's still a worthwhile gaming experience. Aside from a handful of titles exclusive to the PS5, you're going to have access to most major titles out now and all the most popular free-to-play titles.
Price is a major factor when deciding whether to upgrade to a new system — there's no shame in snagging a last-gen console to play with until the PS5 becomes less expensive and more widely available.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Nintendo Switch Lite The best budget portable game console Comfortable design Sharp and vibrant display Solid battery life Brings back the iconic D-pad Affordable Slightly smaller game library No TV mode support No motion controls Why you should buy this: The Nintendo Switch Lite is the best handheld game console out right now, giving you access to all the latest and greatest Nintendo titles without the price tag of its hybrid counterpart.
Who it's for: Everyone Why we picked the Nintendo Switch Lite: If you plan on only using your Nintendo Switch in handheld mode, the Nintendo Switch Lite makes for a great option at a slightly lower price point.
 It lacks the television docking support of the standard system but features a smaller size and a slightly better battery life than the updated Switch console that launched last year. It's compatible out of the box with nearly every Nintendo Switch game, as well, and is perfect for games like Pokémon Sword and Shield.
Ditching the Joy-Cons, the Switch Lite comes with an all-in-one design. It’s almost an inch shorter in width, making it more compact than the original. Coming in at 9.7 ounces, it’s lighter, but not so much that it feels flimsy. Being smaller than its predecessor, the button layout had to be altered slightly, but the console is still incredibly comfortable and easy to navigate.
There aren’t any obvious differences in gaming performance on the smaller console, either. Revving up the field in Rocket League or building your defenses in a tense Fortnite match will feel just as smooth on the Switch Lite display versus the original Switch’s screen.
 With no dock, HDMI support, or Joy-Cons, the Switch Lite doesn’t have TV support or motion controls, which slightly impacts your gaming options, but most of the Switch library is available.
More Les Shu/Digital Trends SNES Classic Edition The best retro game console Games all work exactly as they should Rewind feature works very well Great game library Star Fox 2 released, for the first time ever Beautiful miniature replica design You need to hit the console’s reset button to change games Slimmer game selection than NES Classic Why you should buy this: It has 20 of the best games ever made for only $80 (retail price).
Who it's for: Nintendo fans old and new, and those who grew up with video games.
Why we picked the SNES Classic Edition: The 16-bit era saw Nintendo at the peak of its creativity, releasing popular, acclaimed games like The Legend of Zelda: A Link to the Past *and *Super Metroid alongside cult hits like Earthbound.
 Third-party companies didn't take a backseat, with Square Enix's Final Fantasy VI and Konami's Super Castlevania IV among the best games of all time.
With the plug-and-play SNES Classic Edition, you can experience all over your favorite classic Super Nintendo games as you remembered them through retro gaming. There's even a CRT filter option mimicking the look of your old television.
With the addition of a save-state feature, playing old Nintendo games on the SNES Classic is significantly less frustrating than it was 25 years ago, and when you're ready to sit down and game with a buddy, classics like Super Mario Kart and Street Fighter II Turbo: Hyper Fighting give you a chance to compete for bragging rights.
The SNES Classic Edition also is the only way to play Star Fox 2, outside of the Nintendo Switch Online service, a game Nintendo canceled just before its original release date. To unlock it, you just need to beat the first level of the original Star Fox , but it will be very tough to pull yourself away once you start playing.
More Image used with permission by copyright holder Sega Genesis Mini The best alternative retro game console Authentic design Huge library of games Clean, convenient menu system No rewind feature Why you should buy this : The Genesis Mini is Sega’s retro console offering, renewing the classic Nintend0-Sega rivalry in a new era.
Who it's for: Those who preferred Sonic’s blazing speed to Mario’s block-breaking ways.
Why we picked the Sega Genesis Mini: While the SNES Classic was our top retro pick, there are some golden age classics that only can be found on the Sega Genesis. From groundbreaking platformers Sonic the Hedgehog 2 (arguably when the company's speedy mascot was in his prime) and Earthworm Jim to iconic fighter kings Streets of Rage 2 and Mortal Kombat II , you have to admit that Sega has just as many stellar, nostalgic titles as its Nintendo counterpart console.
The Sega Genesis Mini features 42 games — 40 of which are Sega classics — while the once Genesis-bound Tetris and arcade shoot ’em up Darius sweeten the pot. The package includes a sleek, miniaturized version of the Sega Genesis console and two classic controllers. The console is ready to plug and play and includes a power adapter and an HDMI cable.
The games are presented almost exactly as they were, but the console does include a save-anywhere function, which is quite a time-saver. Overall, your preference for retro console will largely be driven by whether you prefer Sega’s lineup or Nintendo’s. There are certainly no wrong choices, and this is exemplified by the fact that these consoles still generate hype decades later.
More Sony PlayStation VR The best console add-on Good game library at launch Great headset security Achieves that “full VR” sensation PlayStation Network filters out broken games More affordable than Rift or Vive Makes a mess Not as powerful as Rift or Vive Why you should buy this: Sony’s PlayStation VR headset is the most affordable way to give virtual reality gaming a try.
Who it's for: PS4 gamers (or anyone) who want to play virtual reality games.
Why we picked PlayStation VR: Okay — we know that PlayStation VR isn't technically a standalone gaming console, but it might as well be with the way it completely transforms gaming on the PS4. A new PlayStation 4 and a headset bundle comes in a lot less expensive than a gaming PC and either an Oculus Rift or HTC Vive headset, making it the most affordable virtual reality gaming option by a long shot.
It should come as no surprise that the PlayStation VR headset does not have the technical capabilities of its full VR counterparts. The headset sports a pair of 960xRGBx1080 RGB displays — one for each eye — and runs off the PS4’s AMD Radeon GPU, which is far less powerful than the minimum required specs for a Vive- or Rift-compatible PC. It also has a 100-degree field of view, which is slightly smaller than the Rift and Vive. That being said, PlayStation VR achieves that feeling of complete immersion that comes from a “full VR” device, as opposed to mobile-powered options like Google Cardboard.
There are so many fantastic games available on the platform, ranging from action and shooter to platformer, puzzle, and a slew of others. Good luck trying to figure out which are the best to play (or which you can handle being fully immersed in).
If you haven’t used VR much, the PlayStation VR will blow you away. If you've tried more advanced VR tech, you might be a little let down — but this is the most consumer-friendly way to play VR games in the comfort of your own home.
We're still waiting to see how well Sony's PSVR 2 performs, but based on what we know about it so far, it seems to be a huge leap ahead of its predecessor.
More 4K, HDR, and buying game consoles The PS5 and the Xbox Series X support high-resolution gaming that can take advantage of emerging display standards, 4K, and High Dynamic Range (HDR). Some people don't have a 4K TV, and fewer still have quality HDR support, which is broken down into its own sub-categories.
While there was just a small selection of games for last-gen consoles that took full advantage of these features, the newest slate of consoles will better leverage these technologies moving forward, essentially standardizing them. Keep in mind, however, that no console requires you to own a 4K or HDR-compatible TV, meaning you can buy a new console and hold off on buying a more capable TV until you’ve done more research, found games you feel are worth upgrading for, or are otherwise ready to commit.
If you do decide to purchase a new TV for the sake of a video game console, you should look for a 4K TV that runs at 60Hz and supports HDR 10, as opposed to HDR “Premium.” Editors' Recommendations The brand new PS5 ‘Slim’ is already discounted Nintendo Switch Black Friday deals: Consoles, games, and more The best PS5 controllers for 2023 The best PS5 games for 2023 The best Switch games for 2023 Best Products Microsoft Nintendo Nintendo Switch Sony Sony PlayStation Sony PlayStation 5 Xbox Gaming PlayStation Plus has gone through several iterations and changes since it was first introduced. Originally, the service wasn't required for online play at all and rewarded subscribers with extra discounts and free monthly games. Once the PlayStation 4 generation began, it was required for online play, but still offered those same benefits.
Now, PS Plus is divided into three different tiers of subscriptions. The basic tier, PS Plus Essential, still gets three games per month added, while the Extra and Premium tiers will have a varying number of games added to their catalogs. With hundreds of games already and more coming and going all the time, even the most dedicated gamer won't be able to play everything on offer. To help you get the most bang for your buck, and so that no hidden gems fly under your radar, here are all the best games to play on PS Plus Essential, Extra, and Premium right now.
Best PS Plus Essential games As is usually the case, everyone with the lowest tier of PS Plus gets three games this month, two with PlayStation 5 versions and one with a PS4 version. Here's what you can play this month: Gaming The PlayStation 5 has been out for some time now, and its reception has been mostly positive. It includes lots of quality-of-life improvements over its predecessor, the PlayStation 4, such as faster load times, a solid-state drive (SSD) instead of a regular hard disk drive (HDD), and an improved controller in the form of the new DualSense. However, a console is only as good as the games available on it, and thankfully, the PS5 has you covered on that front as well.
While the machine already has a worthy library of great PS5 games, there are even more to look forward to, with some releasing as soon as this month, while others are still years away. In the video game world, it's not uncommon to be aware of games that are still several years out from release. It's also normal for a new game to be revealed and launched within just a couple of months. In this comprehensive list, we'll go through the major PS5 releases scheduled for 2023 and speculate on future games.
Gaming For one of the best Xbox Series X and Series S deals around, look no further than Walmart. Today, you can buy the Xbox Series X Forza Horizon 5 bundle for just $490 so you save $70 off the regular price of $560. If you're looking to start your holiday gift purchasing or you simply want a new console for yourself, this is a great deal. Check it out now by tapping the buy button below or keep reading while we tell you more about it.
Why you should buy the Xbox Series X Forza Horizon 5 bundle The Xbox Series X is a seriously powerful games console. While it might have a fairly divisive design being a very large black box, inside is some fantastic power. It has 12 teraflops of processing power and is capable of running games at 120 frames per second in 4K. It runs quietly too thanks to a great cooling design. Under the hood is 1TB of hard drive space which translates to 802GB of available space once you rule out the needs of the operating system. Tag on one of the best Xbox Series X accessories like the Seagate Storage Expansion Card and you're all set to embrace the best Xbox Game Pass titles.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
