Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Early Black Friday Deals Best USB-C Accessories for iPhone 15 All the ‘Best’ T-Shirts Put to the Test What to Do If You Get Emails for the Wrong Person Get Our Deals Newsletter Gadget Lab Newsletter Julian Chokkattu Gear Apple Stuffs the iPad Pro With a New Display and Its Mac M1 Chip Photograph: Apple Save this story Save Save this story Save Apple showed off a new iPad Pro alongside a flurry of other hardware and software announcements at its virtual event on Tuesday. The successor to the 2020 iPad Pro adds Apple's M1 chip—the same as the one inside the most recent MacBook Air —along with Mini-LED display technology.
The tablet comes in 11- or 12.9-inch sizes and was announced alongside a new iMac, AirTags, Apple TV 4K, and more, which you can read about here.
Photograph: Apple Apple's biggest news of 2020 was its shift away from using Intel processors inside its Macs in favor of the company's own silicon, based on ARM architecture. Now, the same processor that debuted inside last year's MacBook Air, Pro, and Mac Mini — the M1 —is powering the iPad Pro.
What does it mean for you? Apple says to expect up to 50 percent faster CPU performance and up to 40 percent faster graphics than the previous iPad Pro.
The other big update is to the display, specifically for the 12.9-inch model. It's now using what Apple calls Liquid Retina XDR, the same name as the display technology in its $5,000 Pro Display XDR.
 Except the underlying technology isn't the same. The 12.9-inch iPad Pro's LCD display uses Mini-LED backlighting technology, which has been cropping up in a few TVs of late.
Mini-LED technology, as the name suggests, uses thousands of tiny LEDs to create light for an LCD display. Rather than a single linked panel (or a panel with several zones) lighting up a screen, this much more targeted approach allows for improved contrast ratios, better blacks, and higher brightness (1,000 nits, up to 1,600 peak brightness). Apple says the iPad Pro has more than 10,000 LEDs, a stunning jump from last year's model, which had 72.
Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft This tech enables the iPad Pro's screen to have 2,596 local dimming zones, allowing the screen to more precisely adjust brightness wherever needed. You also won't run into as much backlight bleeding, a common problem on traditional LCD-backlit displays where light bleeds through the edges of the screen. WIRED's Lauren Goode noticed this issue on last year's iPad Air.
 The 11-inch iPad Pro's Liquid Retina display doesn't use Mini-LED technology.
Apple has been using LCD displays for its iPads since the very first model, and that's not changing. Mini-LED is just an evolution of existing LCD backlighting technology. You might wonder why it didn't opt for OLED, the display technology employed in the latest iPhones. The answer isn't clear-cut. It may be an issue of price or availability, but OLED is also more likely to suffer from screen burn-in, where the display's content leaves a ghost image on the panel if left idle for too long. It also cannot get as bright.
Photograph: Apple There are a few other updates that make the new iPad Pro more enticing. There's now a 5G version if you don't want to rely on Wi-Fi. It supports all versions of 5G, including millimeter wave , which Apple says can deliver up to 4 gigabits per second in ideal conditions. Keep in mind that 5G access is still limited across the US, so those ideal conditions are relegated to very specific areas in certain cities.
Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft The Pro also supports Thunderbolt 4, meaning the USB-C port on the tablet can now transfer data at much faster speeds and can connect to multiple external displays. With a compatible Thunderbolt dock or hub, you can do this and also power the system with a single cable connected to the iPad.
Finally, the TrueDepth camera system on the front of the iPad Pro, which enables Face ID, uses a new 12-megapixel camera with a wider field of view. This may be handy during video calls, where a new feature called Center Stage will keep the camera aimed at you as you move, helping you remain in the frame during a video call. It's a feature you'll find in Facebook's Portal smart displays and Amazon's latest Echo Show.
Photograph: Apple The rest of the iPad Pro is similar to its predecessor.
 ProMotion is still here, delivering a 120-Hz screen refresh rate for more responsive interactions; there are four speakers on each corner (with Dolby Atmos support); and the lidar camera on the back offers more precision to augmented reality apps.
Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft The new iPad Pro is available for preorder starting April 30 , and it goes on sale in the second half of May. The 11-inch model starts at the standard $799, but the 12.9-inch version gets a price jump. It's now $1,099.
You can also now buy a model with 2 terabytes of storage. If you do, maybe Apple will finally stop pestering you about iCloud storage.
If you buy something using links in our stories, we may earn a commission. This helps support our journalism.
Learn more.
📩 The latest on tech, science, and more: Get our newsletters ! Here's how to survive a killer asteroid Independent video game stores are here to stay I use motion smoothing on my TV.
Maybe you should too YouTube has a disturbingly creepy Minecraft problem The Roaring-’20s post-pandemic summer terrifies me 👁️ Explore AI like never before with our new database 🎮 WIRED Games: Get the latest tips, reviews, and more ✨ Optimize your home life with our Gear team’s best picks, from robot vacuums to affordable mattresses to smart speakers Reviews Editor X Topics Shopping apple iPad tablets gear Eric Ravenscraft Simon Hill Jaina Grey Brenda Stolyar Jaina Grey Julian Chokkattu Adrienne So Simon Hill WIRED COUPONS TurboTax Service Code TurboTax coupon: Up to an extra $15 off all tax services h&r block coupon H&R Block tax software: Save 20% - no coupon needed Instacart promo code Instacart promo code: $25 Off your 1st order + free delivery Doordash Promo Code 50% Off DoorDash Promo Code + Free Delivery Finish Line Coupon Take $10 off Your Order - Finish Line Coupon Code Groupon Promo Code Groupon promo code: Extra 30% off any amount Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
