Open Navigation Menu To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert To revisit this article, select My Account, then View saved stories Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Early Black Friday Deals Best USB-C Accessories for iPhone 15 All the ‘Best’ T-Shirts Put to the Test What to Do If You Get Emails for the Wrong Person Get Our Deals Newsletter Gadget Lab Newsletter Simon Hill Adrienne So Gear The Best Video Doorbell Cameras Facebook X Email Save Story Facebook X Email Save Story If you buy something using links in our stories, we may earn a commission. This helps support our journalism.
Learn more.
 Please also consider subscribing to WIRED The Best Smart Doorbell $180 at Nest The Runner-Up $150 at Amazon Best Budget Video Doorbell $94 at Wyze Best for iPhone Owners $200 at Amazon As people who receive a lot of packages, we in the Gadget Lab have a foolproof way of making sure an important delivery shows up: Just step into the shower. If you’re sitting at your desk with your shoes on, waiting and ready, I guarantee that every knock or ring will be from someone trying to convert you to an obscure and weirdly expensive religion.
Even if you’re working in your backyard or hungover in bed, a smart video doorbell can help you tell which knocks are worth lunging for and which ones can wait until next time. My colleague Simon Hill and I have tested these doorbells for months, peering at Instacart deliveries and stray raccoons from the safety and comfort of our couches. These are the best picks for you.
Don’t see anything you need here? Check out our other guides, including the Best Indoor and Outdoor Security Cameras and the Best Personal Safety Devices and Alarms.
Updated September 2023: We changed our top pick, added doorbells from Aqara, Reolink, Blink, and TP-Link, added a performance section at the end, updated our Eufy section, and updated prices and other details to reflect changes.
Special offer for Gear readers: Get a 1-year subscription to WIRED for $5 ($25 off).
 This includes unlimited access to WIRED.
com and our print magazine (if you'd like). Subscriptions help fund the work we do every day.
Photograph: Google The Best Smart Doorbell Nest Doorbell (Battery) The Nest Doorbell claims top spot thanks to reliable performance. I (Simon) tested it alongside several competitors and it consistently outperformed them. Alerts are swift, and notifications include animated previews that make it easy to decide whether you need to act. While the resolution isn't the sharpest, Google compensates with HDR video at up to 30 frames-per-second.
You can use the Nest Doorbell without a subscription, but you are limited to three hours of recordings and miss out on the features that really elevate this doorbell: the accurate face and package detection. Nest Aware is expensive at $8 a month ($80/year) but covers all your Nest cameras, which can work out cheaper than some alternatives if you have more than one. If you want 24/7 recording, you need Nest Aware Plus at $15 a month.
I (Adrienne) have tested the battery version for months, and I find it very easy to mount, take off, and charge. Each charge lasted more than a month. (I also suggest keeping Google’s branded chargers since the off-brand USB-C chargers increased charging time from 5 hours to 15.) If you have Nest devices in the home, they can announce people at the door. You can also connect the Nest Doorbell to your existing doorbell wiring and have it trigger the regular chime.
The field of view is smaller than the Arlo’s, but it’s still expansive enough to see packages left on our porch, and night vision picks up Instacart and DoorDash deliveries. Google’s smart notifications are on point when it comes to identifying faces and packages. And it’s hard to put a price on the ease of incorporating your Google-enabled cameras, streaming, thermostat, and devices all under one app. If your wallet can stand the sting, it’s worth it.
$180 at Nest $180 at Best Buy Photograph: Arlo The Runner-Up Arlo Essential Wired Video Doorbell While this doorbell performed reliably over months of testing, it has slipped into second place for two reasons: Firstly, Arlo has raised its subscription prices to $5 a month for a single camera (if you have multiple Arlo cameras, you must pay at least $13 a month). Secondly, we have started to notice lag on the live feed. Instead of seeing events in real-time, there is a two to three second delay (we have spoken with Arlo technical support and have not found a solution yet). That lag might not be a big deal with a security camera, but for a doorbell it can be a problem.
That said, the Arlo offers an expansive 180-degree square view of your front porch, swift alerts with clear notifications, and detailed video during the day and night. False positives are rare, and it never misses the action. The companion app is very straightforward and is relatively quick to load a live view or recorded videos compared to other smart doorbell apps.
I also appreciate that someone pressing the doorbell triggers a call on my phone. These calls come through more reliably and quickly than alerts from other doorbells—particularly away from home. The notification system is also superior to most competitors, with a box highlighting the subject and animated previews that often save you from opening the app.
You can get the wired model for $150 or pay an extra $50 for the battery-powered version, but you need an Arlo Secure plan ($5 a month) to get the most from either. Without a subscription, the Arlo doorbell is limited to live streaming and motion notifications. Arlo Secure adds useful features, including 30 days of cloud video history, animated previews, interactive notifications, activity zones, and detection smarts that enable it to categorize by person, package, animal, and vehicle. The ability to dictate zones that trigger motion alerts and filter for notifications about people is essential if you don’t want to get pinged every time the neighbor's cat crosses your porch.
$150 at Amazon $150 at Target $150 at Best Buy Gear 13 Best Deals at Target’s Black Friday Sale Medea Giordano Buying Guides The Best Binoculars to Zoom In on Real Life Scott Gilbertson Gear Just Got a Meta Quest Headset? These Are Our Favorite Games Eric Ravenscraft Gear The Top New Features in Apple’s iOS 17 and iPadOS 17 Julian Chokkattu Photograph: Wyze Best Budget Video Doorbell Wyze Video Doorbell Pro The Wyze Video Doorbell Pro ( 7/10, WIRED Recommends ) is the first video doorbell I’ve tested under $100 that doesn’t fail to alert or record some visits or completely lack smart features. It's our budget recommendation, but with caveats. The Cam Plus subscription is an extra $2 per month (currently offered at $15 for the year if you pay upfront). Even factoring that in, this is a relatively affordable option, and you don’t have to sacrifice smart alerts or AI detection for people, vehicles, pets, and packages.
It provides a 1440p, square, 150-degree view of your front porch. There’s a pronounced fish-eye effect and some pixelation (especially if you zoom in), but video quality is generally solid. Perhaps more importantly, this doorbell did not miss a visitor or motion event in my two weeks of testing, and the AI detection was surprisingly accurate. The Wyze app is straightforward, quick to load videos stored in the cloud with a timeline that marks events clearly, and you can tweak sensitivity and set a detection zone.
Without the subscription, there’s a 5-minute cooldown between recordings and a 12-second limit on video, so it's a must. Battery life is also a concern. Most folks will have to charge every couple of months. There is sometimes a delay on alerts and lag on the two-way audio, especially if you are away from home, but nothing egregious. Wyze has also been called out for security issues in the past, though it promises improvements.
$94 at Wyze Photograph: Logitech Best for iPhone Owners Logitech Circle View Doorbell This is as close as you can get to an Apple video doorbell. It’s compact and boasts a 160-degree field of view with a 3:4 portrait aspect ratio that takes in your whole porch and captures visitors head to toe. Video is crisp and clear, in bright or low light, and the live feed is impressively quick to load. The notification system can tell the difference between animals, people, and vehicles, and will start to recognize familiar faces over time.
The Logitech Circle View Doorbell works directly through the Apple Home app with HomeKit Secure Video.
 Ten days of encrypted videos are stored in your iCloud account (if you have a 50-gigabyte subscription or higher). Alerts come via Apple devices, but your regular chime will also sound when this doorbell is pressed. I love that live video pops up on the Apple Watch or Apple TV when someone rings the doorbell. You will likely need an electrician to install the Logitech Circle View. While it may be the ideal option for Apple households, you need a subscription for recorded video (starting from $1 per month for a single camera) and a HomePod or Apple TV set up as a home hub.
The complete lack of support for Android or Alexa will turn some people off. There’s a built-in night vision light, which ensures high-quality color video when it’s dark, but it’s on all the time by default, and it’s bright. You can turn it off permanently, but I wish it was motion-activated. I also have one more warning: The Logitech Circle View worked well for the first few months, but this doorbell has stopped working on several occasions, and I had to cut the power at the fusebox to reset it. Worryingly, there’s no warning when this happens. It simply stops recording events and can’t connect through the Home app. Since I switched to an Apple TV as the home hub, problems have been less frequent.
$200 at Amazon $200 at Apple Gear 13 Best Deals at Target’s Black Friday Sale Medea Giordano Buying Guides The Best Binoculars to Zoom In on Real Life Scott Gilbertson Gear Just Got a Meta Quest Headset? These Are Our Favorite Games Eric Ravenscraft Gear The Top New Features in Apple’s iOS 17 and iPadOS 17 Julian Chokkattu Photograph: Aqara Best Battery HomeKit Doorbell Aqara Video Doorbell G4 Apple households seeking a battery-powered doorbell that doesn’t need to connect to existing wiring might be interested in Aqara’s G4. (It can be wired too.) Video is limited to 1080p, and the camera has a horizontal 16:9 aspect ratio and 162-degree field of view that is plenty wide but can’t see the porch floor where packages are likely to be. The lack of HDR is a problem if your visitor is backlit by bright sun. While it works with the Aqara app and Google Home or Amazon Alexa, it offers more when paired with Apple’s HomeKit Secure Video (and this will preclude the others). I tried it both ways, but let's look at HSV first.
HSV requires a HomePod or an Apple TV set up as a home hub and at least the 50-GB iCloud plan at $1 a month for a single camera. (The 200-GB plan supports five cameras for $3 a month.) You get unlimited recordings, alerts for people, packages, vehicles, and animals, motion zones, and even face recognition. It’s great when it works, with doorbell alerts instantly streaming live video on your iPhone, Apple Watch, or Apple TV, but it isn’t reliable. Occasionally, it inexplicably missed motion events that other doorbells caught.
Aqara’s G4 is one of the chunkiest doorbells I have ever tested, partly because the body needs room for a whopping six AA batteries. Sadly, it ships with disposable batteries that fell well short of Aqara’s suggested four months (more like one), but I’ve since swapped them out for Panasonic’s rechargeable Eneloop , and they seem set to last a bit longer. Testing it without HSV, it performed more reliably, with the indoor hub recording video to a microSD card and doubling as a loud chime and Wi-Fi repeater.
The depth of features in the Aqara app is impressive, with options to configure loitering alerts and fine-tune detection zones. It’s also worth mentioning that you can record 24/7 video if you hard-wire this doorbell. But as the only battery-powered option that currently supports HSV, that is its unique selling point.
$120 at Amazon Photograph: Reolink Wired and Subscription-Free Reolink Video Doorbell Anyone who has fussed over the batteries in their smart doorbell will understand the appeal of a wired device that runs forever. The Reolink is as fuss-free as they come. It costs around $100, but watch out for frequent discounts. Reolink offers a simple and steady app that will display clear (if not quite crisp) 2K video playback, and this doorbell records to a microSD card, so you're not bound to a monthly service fee. They even include a plug-in chime in the box instead of trying to upsell you like many competitors. The Reolink doorbell has usable but choppy night vision (the frame rate maxes out at 20). Built-in speakers and a microphone allow you to plead with the FedEx driver to linger for 10 seconds before disappearing into the ether.
This doorbell is not battery-powered and will require a wired connection. You have three options: connect to your existing doorbell wires, plug into a power outlet, or connect via an Ethernet cable.
 Reviewer Martin Cizmar tried the first two during his months of testing, connecting it to a power outlet on the back of his house before moving it to the doorbell wires up front.
The two main downsides for Cizmar were the lack of HomeKit integration and the fact the rather basic detection mode could not reliably exclude alerts about a blowing flag or tree branch. Compared to Arlo security camera apps he's used, the Reolink's smart sensing is a bit behind. But if you're replacing a traditional wired doorbell with a video doorbell, this is a solid choice that avoids fees or dead batteries.
$100 at Amazon Gear 13 Best Deals at Target’s Black Friday Sale Medea Giordano Buying Guides The Best Binoculars to Zoom In on Real Life Scott Gilbertson Gear Just Got a Meta Quest Headset? These Are Our Favorite Games Eric Ravenscraft Gear The Top New Features in Apple’s iOS 17 and iPadOS 17 Julian Chokkattu Photograph: 360 Honorable Mentions Other Video Doorbells We have tested several other video doorbells. These are the ones that narrowly missed out on a place above.
Amazon Blink Video Doorbell for $60 : Amazon-owned Blink offers one of the cheapest doorbells actually worth considering. (Wait for one of Amazon’s frequent discounts to save even more.) But you will need a subscription unless you buy with the Sync 2 module ($95).
 The Blink Basic subscription is $3 a month or $30 a year. Video quality is 1080p with a limited field of view, and the lack of HDR shows in bright light. Notifications lack images or video and were a bit slower than some of the competition, but they always came through. It only needs two AA batteries, but it works far better if you can connect doorbell wiring. We like that you can stick a USB flash drive into the Sync to record video locally, and Echo devices can double as chimes. Sadly, there’s no support for Google Home or Apple HomeKit, and it lacks features like package detection and facial recognition.
TP-Link Tapo (D230S1) Smart Battery Video Doorbell for £150 : For folks in the UK seeking a local storage option that doesn’t require a subscription, this Tapo doorbell is worth a look. (The US release is expected before the end of the year.) Notifications come through swiftly and include a still image, video quality is excellent, even at night, and the indoor hub takes a microSD card and doubles as a chime. On the downside, it is chunky, and the onboard AI (which is supposed to recognize people, pets, vehicles, and packages) is flaky.
Toucan Wireless Video Doorbell for $130 : This is a familiar-looking wireless video doorbell with a battery-powered chime. It looks identical to the SwannBuddy below, but Toucan’s app is quicker to load, and the performance is more reliable (though it did not catch every visit). Video quality is limited to 1080p, and the camera doesn’t deal too well with mixed lighting. You get 24 hours of free cloud storage and can subscribe for more, starting at $3 per month. There’s no smart detection, but you can set custom zones.
Photograph: Swann Tough to Recommend Video Doorbells You Might Want to Avoid We didn't like every video doorbell we tested. These are the ones we don't recommend.
Swann SwannBuddy Video Doorbell : This doorbell comes with a wireless battery-powered chime and the option of local storage, but the positives end there. The video quality is poor, the app is painfully slow to load and glitchy, and the doorbell frequently fails to register motion. I found the battery life disappointing. I must also question the decision to provide local storage via a MicroSD card inserted in the doorbell (the chime would make more sense and be more secure).
Ezviz DB2 Video Doorbell : An affordable video doorbell that comes with a plug-in chime, the Ezviz DB2 works quite well, but it is very chunky and kinda ugly. Video footage is detailed, but I had issues with blown-out bright areas when the sun was shining. The app is solid and quick to load, doorbell presses trigger a call to your phone, and you can record locally by inserting a MicroSD card in the chime. Sadly, it only offers a very limited option to define motion zones--a big problem if you live on a busy street. I also found the battery life below average, and it's tricky to remove.
Ring Video Doorbell 3 Plus : I tested the Ring Doorbell 3 Plus, which boasts a laundry list of features, including pre-roll footage (providing four seconds of black and white video before bell presses), seamless Alexa integration, and quick replies. Video and sound quality are solid. But the app is bloated, and performance was very inconsistent, with delayed notifications and long loading times. We also have a few more thoughts on Ring's program with law enforcement below.
Gear 13 Best Deals at Target’s Black Friday Sale Medea Giordano Buying Guides The Best Binoculars to Zoom In on Real Life Scott Gilbertson Gear Just Got a Meta Quest Headset? These Are Our Favorite Games Eric Ravenscraft Gear The Top New Features in Apple’s iOS 17 and iPadOS 17 Julian Chokkattu Photograph: Eufy What About Eufy Security? Why We Don't Recommend Eufy Security We recommended several Eufy Security cameras in the past, but it emerged that camera systems sold with the promise of local data storage were, in fact, uploading images to the cloud, as demonstrated by security researcher Paul Moore.
 Further, it proved possible to stream video from a Eufy camera without encryption through the cloud, as reported by The Verge.
 Considering this, on top of the software bug in May 2021 that exposed Eufy users' camera feeds to other users, even giving them full control of the pan and zoom functions, we decided to stop recommending Eufy cameras.
Eufy's parent company, Anker, has responded to our queries , admitting that most of the allegations are true. It claims to have fixed these issues, changing the language around its push notifications (which send images to the cloud for alerts), ensuring end-to-end encryption through the web portal (as well as the mobile app), and removing the need to upload a user’s face photo for setup. The company insists that video streams are, and always have been, encrypted with a dynamic key. Anker is promising a full risk assessment with penetration testing, an independent review of its current security and privacy systems and practices, and a new security bounty program to encourage researchers to find vulnerabilities. It has also officially engaged PWC and TrustARC to conduct a comprehensive security assessment.
These are all positive steps, but we are still concerned about the company’s initial denials. We will continue to monitor the situation and await the results of independent audits before we start recommending Eufy cameras again.
Photograph: Justin Sullivan/Getty Images A Word on Surveillance Or, Why We Hesitate to Recommend Ring In the past, we've covered Ring quite critically. The company's ubiquitous cameras have turned the suburbs into a surveillance state and been subject to high-profile hacks.
 However, its long-standing relationship with law enforcement is the primary reason why we hesitate to recommend Ring cameras. To use a Ring camera, you need to download the Neighbors app. The app incorporates Ring's Public Safety Service (NPSS) , which allows law enforcement to post information and request photos and videos directly from Ring customers.
Late last year, Ring underwent an independent audit with NYU's Policing Project, which resulted in important changes—such as making police requests public, and allowing Neighbors to ban people who frequently post racist content. You can also disable the Neighbors service in the app (although you're still automatically enrolled when you install a Ring camera.) However, Ring's relationship with law enforcement is still unique; even Nextdoor removed its Forward to Police feature in 2020. If this relationship makes you uncomfortable, we think you have other good options available.
Gear 13 Best Deals at Target’s Black Friday Sale Medea Giordano Buying Guides The Best Binoculars to Zoom In on Real Life Scott Gilbertson Gear Just Got a Meta Quest Headset? These Are Our Favorite Games Eric Ravenscraft Gear The Top New Features in Apple’s iOS 17 and iPadOS 17 Julian Chokkattu Photograph: Wyze What to Consider Shopping for Video Doorbells Performance : All smart doorbells need a strong Wi-Fi signal to perform well. Some come with hubs that double as Wi-Fi repeaters for a better connection. Remember that performance away from home when you access the doorbell on your phone will be heavily impacted by the quality of your phone’s internet connection. Every video doorbell we have tested has a slight lag, but you should be able to see the live feed in close to real time and carry on a two-way conversation. While feeds should load within two to three seconds, occasional delays in loading the live feed are common, and we have yet to find a flawless doorbell. Video doorbells tend to load fastest in their native app.
Wired vs. Battery Powered: Smart doorbells require more power than traditional doorbells. You may need a new transformer, and you will likely want to hire an electrician for safe installation. The main advantages of wired doorbells are that you shouldn’t need to touch them again after installation, and they will ring your existing doorbell chime. Wired doorbells are usually a bit cheaper and slimmer than models with batteries, too.
Battery-powered smart doorbells are easy to install yourself and can be mounted wherever you like. The main downside is that you must remove and charge the battery every few months, which means some downtime unless you buy a spare battery to switch in. Remember also that your regular doorbell chime won’t work with a battery-powered smart doorbell, so you will probably need to buy a wireless chime device to plug in somewhere in your home, though you can also configure smart speakers to act as doorbell chimes.
Most battery-powered video doorbells can also be wired, which may be the best solution if you have concerns about power outages. Wired doorbells are generally faster to alert and more reliable than battery-powered doorbells.
Resolution and HDR: The higher the resolution, the clearer the picture you get, but consider that higher-resolution video also requires more bandwidth to stream and takes up more storage space. If your front porch is in direct sunlight or strong shade, we strongly recommend opting for a video doorbell with HDR support, as it helps to prevent bright areas from appearing blown out or shadowy areas from being too dark to see.
Field of View and Aspect Ratio: If you want a head-to-toe view of the person at your front door, then think about the field of view and aspect ratio offered by your prospective pick. A wider field of view will take more in but can cause a fish-eye effect. Rather than a traditional landscape aspect ratio, you may prefer a square or portrait view to ensure you can see a visitor’s face and any packages that might be on your porch.
Local or Cloud Storage: If you don’t want to sign up for a subscription service and upload video clips to the cloud, ensure your chosen doorbell offers local storage. Some video doorbells have microSD card slots, while others record video to a hub device inside your home. You can expect to pay somewhere around $3 to $8 per month for 30 days of storage for a video doorbell.
Advanced Features: Many video doorbells offer features like package detection and person recognition. These features can be handy for filtering alerts, so you only get useful notifications. Bear in mind that you may need a subscription to gain access to advanced features.
Choosing a Brand: If you already have a security camera system or plan on getting one, it makes a lot of sense to stick with the same brand for your doorbell. That way, you can access everything in the same app and get a single subscription if required. If you have a smart home setup, check that the doorbell is compatible with your preferred ecosystem and voice assistant.
Security: A couple of things we recommend looking for are two-factor authentication (2FA) to ensure that someone with your username and password cannot log into your doorbell, and encryption to ensure that anyone accessing the manufacturer’s servers cannot see your Wi-Fi login details or watch uploaded videos.
Contributor X Senior Associate Reviews Editor X Topics buying guides smart home security camera Shopping security surveillance Scott Gilbertson Scott Gilbertson Reece Rogers Carlton Reid Boone Ashworth Virginia Heffernan Medea Giordano Scott Gilbertson WIRED COUPONS TurboTax Service Code TurboTax coupon: Up to an extra $15 off all tax services h&r block coupon H&R Block tax software: Save 20% - no coupon needed Instacart promo code Instacart promo code: $25 Off your 1st order + free delivery Dyson promo code Extra 20% off sitewide - Dyson promo code GoPro Promo Code GoPro Promo Code: save 15% on your next order Samsung Promo Code Samsung coupon Code for up to 40% Off the store Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
