Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Jennifer Ouellette, Ars Technica Business DeepMind’s New AI Helps Restore Damaged Ancient Texts Testing revealed that Ithaca on its own is able to achieve 62 percent accuracy in the restoration of damaged text, compared to 25 percent accuracy for human historians.
Photograph: ihsan Gercelman/Getty Images Save this story Save Save this story Save Google DeepMind has collaborated with classical scholars to create a new AI tool that uses deep neural networks to help historians decipher the text of damaged inscriptions from ancient Greece. The new system, dubbed Ithaca, builds on an earlier text restoration system called Pythia.
This story originally appeared on Ars Technica , a trusted source for technology news, tech policy analysis, reviews, and more. Ars is owned by WIRED's parent company, Condé Nast.
Ithaca doesn't just assist historians in restoring text—it can also identify a text's location of origin and the date of creation, according to a new paper the research team published in the journal Nature.
 In fact, Ithaca has already been used to help resolve an ongoing debate among historians about the correct dates for a group of ancient Athenian decrees. An interactive version of Ithaca is freely available , and the team is making its code open source.
Many ancient sources—whether they be written on scrolls, papyri, stone, metal, or pottery—are so damaged that large chunks of text are often illegible. Determining where the texts originated can also be a challenge, since they have likely been moved multiple times. As for accurately determining when they were produced, radiocarbon dating and similar methods can't be used since they can damage the priceless artifacts. So the daunting and time-consuming task of interpreting these incomplete texts falls to so-called epigraphists who specialize in those skills.
As the folks at DeepMind wrote in 2019 : One of the issues with discerning meaning from incomplete fragments of text is that there are often multiple possible solutions. In many word games and puzzles, players guess letters to complete a word or phrase—the more letters that are specified, the more constrained the possible solutions become. But unlike these games, where players have to guess a phrase in isolation, historians restoring a text can estimate the likelihood of different possible solutions based on other context clues in the inscription—such as grammatical and linguistic considerations, layout and shape, textual parallels, and historical context.
To help speed up the process, DeepMind 's Yannis Assael, Thea Sommerschield, and Jonathan Prag collaborated with researchers at the University of Oxford to develop Pythia, an ancient-text restoration system named after the high priestess who served as the Oracle of Delphi, delivering the pronouncements of the god Apollo.
The researchers' first step was converting the Packard Humanities Institute (PHI) database—the largest digital collection of ancient Greek inscriptions—into machine-actionable text they called PHI-ML. That amounted to about 35,000 inscriptions and more than 3 million words from the 7th century BC through the 5th century AD. Next, the researchers trained Pythia (with both words and the individual characters as inputs) to predict the missing letters of words in those inscriptions. Pythia was trained to use the pattern-recognition capabilities of deep neural networks.
Culture Taylor Swift and Beyoncé Are Resurrecting the American Movie Theater Angela Watercutter Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Business Sweden’s Tesla Blockade Is Spreading Morgan Meaker When faced with an incomplete inscription, Pythia produced as many as 20 different possible letters or words that might fill in the gaps, as well as the confidence level for each possibility. It was up to the historians (the "domain experts") to sift through those possibilities and make a final determination based on their subject matter expertise.
The team tested the system by comparing Pythia's results on completing 2,949 inscriptions with those of Oxford graduate students in epigraphy. Pythia's output had a 30.1 percent error rate, compared to a 57.3 percent error rate for the students. Pythia was also able to complete the task much more quickly, requiring just a few seconds to decipher 50 inscriptions, compared to two hours for the students.
And now Assael and his cohorts are back with Ithaca. In addition to the text restoration capability, Ithaca makes predictions about the geographical attribution of incomplete inscriptions. The probability distribution over all possible predictions is helpfully visualized on a map, "to shed light on possible underlying geographical connections across the ancient world," the team wrote in an accompanying blog post.
 For chronological attribution, Ithaca produces a distribution of its predicted dates between 800 BC and 800 AD.
Testing revealed that Ithaca on its own is able to achieve 62 percent accuracy in the restoration of damaged text, compared to 25 percent accuracy for human historians. But the combination of man and machine boosts the overall accuracy to 72 percent, which Assael et al. believe demonstrates "the potential for human-machine cooperation" in the field. As for attributing inscriptions to their original location, Ithaca can do so with 71 percent accuracy and date the inscriptions to within 30 years.
Ithaca has already had the chance to demonstrate its usefulness to historians in a test case involving a set of Athenian decrees that have been at the center of a dating controversy.
 Historians had previously pegged the dates of the decrees to no later than 446 BC. That assessment was based on certain letterforms (known as the Attic three-bar sigma) that the Athenian bureaucracy used during this period. After 446 BC, the Athenians switched to an Ionic four-bar sigma for its decrees.
This was the standard dating methodology for Athenian inscriptions until other historians began to question its assumptions, particularly since several decrees dated this way seemed to conflict with the historical accounts of Thucydides. These historians uncovered evidence that the Attic letterform was still used in official documents long after 446 BC. They concluded that the dates of many of these decrees should be earlier—around 420 BC. Ithaca predicted a date of 421 BC, very much in keeping with that conclusion.
Culture Taylor Swift and Beyoncé Are Resurrecting the American Movie Theater Angela Watercutter Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Business Sweden’s Tesla Blockade Is Spreading Morgan Meaker "Although it might seem like a small difference, this date shift has significant implications for our understanding of the political history of Classical Athens," Sommerschield said in a statement. The next step is to develop additional versions of Ithaca that can restore text in other ancient languages, including Akkadian, Demotic, Hebrew, and Mayan.
“This paper represents a very important development in the collaborative use of AI to enhance the restoration, dating, and attribution of inscriptions written in Greek from the ancient world over a period of several centuries,” said Alison Cooley, president of the International Digital Epigraphy Association at the University of Warwick, who is not affiliated with the project. “The innovative design of Ithaca promises to transform the potential contribution of inscribed evidence to our understanding of key moments in world history.” Roger Bagnall, emeritus professor at New York University (also not affiliated with the project), is enthusiastic about what he terms an extraordinary advance in performance since Pythia, particularly because Ithaca can be extended to other languages. “I can hardly wait to see it applied to the documentary papyri where we have far more precise dating but far more unprovenanced texts, because of the operations of the antiquities market,” he said in a statement. “It should be possible with Ithaca's help to reconstruct the workings of that market and the original historical context of many more of the thousands of papyrus documents.” This story originally appeared on Ars Technica.
📩 The latest on tech, science, and more: Get our newsletters ! How Telegram became the anti-Facebook Wind turbines could mess with ships' radar signals The governor of Colorado is high on blockchain The age of everything culture is here An internet troll targets nonalcoholic spirits startups 👁️ Explore AI like never before with our new database 📱 Torn between the latest phones? Never fear—check out our iPhone buying guide and favorite Android phones Topics Ars Technica archaeology DeepMind Google Alphabet Morgan Meaker Matt Reynolds Amy Martyn Aarian Marshall Amanda Hoover Paresh Dave Gregory Barber Niamh Rowe Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
