Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Robert McMillan Business How Skype Used AI to Build Its Amazing New Language Translator Save this story Save Save this story Save Very soon now, a select group of Skype beta testers will have a new Microsoft technology that seems borrowed from the world of Star Trek.
 It's called the Skype Translator---a Skype add-on that listens to the English words you speak into Microsoft's internet phone-calling software and translates them into Spanish , or vice versa.
As you can see from demos like the one below, it's an amazing technology, and it's based on work that's been going on quietly inside Microsoft's research and development labs for more than a decade. Microsoft is already using some of the text translation technology underpinning Skype Translate to power its Bing Translate search engine translation service, and to jump start the foreign language translation of its products, manuals, and hundreds of thousands of support documents. "One of the largest, published, untouched machine translation repositories on the internet is the Microsoft customer support Knowledge Base," says Vikram Dendi, strategy director with Microsoft Research.
The translation machine intelligence is only part of the story, though. Skype Translate takes the words you speak, converts them into text, translates that text, and then synthesizes them into spoken words in the language of the person on the other end of the call. And that voice recognition component---recognizing your speech and converting it into text---has long been the trickiest part of the equation.
But voice recognition has come a long way in the past few years, thanks in large part to a burgeoning field of artificial intelligence research known as deep neural networks. Neural networks have been around since the 1980s, but they're experiencing a renaissance. They hit the mainstream in 2012 when Google announced that it had used deep neural nets to recognize cat videos on YouTube. That work led directly to a big boost in Android's voice recognition software, but behind the scenes, Microsoft was quietly laying the groundwork for Skype translate.
>We published those results, then the world changed Microsoft was tinkering with neural networks nearly a decade before Google's cat videos, to improve the handwriting recognition on tablet PCs, Microsoft researcher John Platt recently told WIRED.
But the work that led to Skype Translate's most startling breakthrough---the ability to reliably recognize almost anybody's speech---began just before Christmas 2009, when Microsoft sponsored a mini-symposium on the technology in Whistler, British Columbia. The invited speaker, University of Toronto's Geoff Hinton, had developed a machine learning model that mimicked neurons in the human brain, gradually building a deeper and deeper understanding of things such as English speech.
Microsoft soon ponied up the funds so that Hinton's ideas could be tested out with the latest graphical processor units. The results were "stunning," a 25 percent boost in speech recognition accuracy, Microsoft Research head Peter Lee told us earlier this year.
 "We published those results, then the world changed," he said.
Now Microsoft is ready to change the world in earnest, offering people from completely different languages and cultures a kind of immediate, face-to-face, method of communication that has previously been the stuff of science fiction.
Vikram Dendi said that about 50,000 people had signed up for pre-beta access to Skype Translate before Monday, when the company announced that it was set to go into beta by year's end. A day later the waiting list has approximately doubled. "Because people are so excited about what this means to communications, it's exploding," he says.
Culture Taylor Swift and Beyoncé Are Resurrecting the American Movie Theater Angela Watercutter Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Business Sweden’s Tesla Blockade Is Spreading Morgan Meaker Senior Writer X Topics Enterprise Microsoft Paresh Dave Paresh Dave Steven Levy Will Knight Niamh Rowe Reece Rogers Steven Levy Will Knight Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
