Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Mark Robinson Business Sebastian Thrun on AI, Flying Cars, and Sam Altman Sebastian Thrun in his Flyer Michelle Groskopf Save this story Save Save this story Save Company Open AI Sector Automotive Sebastian Thrun , winner of the Darpa Grand Challenge in 2005 Sam Altman , president of Y Combinator and cofounder of OpenAI At 51, Sebastian Thrun has already had enough careers for three lifetimes. The computer scientist and Stanford professor did pioneering work in artificial intelligence and helped invent self-driving cars. (His Stanford team was the first to win the Darpa autonomous vehicle challenge , and he went on to create Google’s self-­driving initiative.) He then cofounded a distance-­education company. In 2010 he launched Kitty Hawk, a startup that is testing two personal airborne vehicles. Yes, essentially flying cars.
 The future, from his perspective, is all blue sky.
October 2018.
Subscribe to WIRED.
Plunkett + Kuhr Designers On Flying Vehicles : About 100 years ago we went from horse-drawn carriages to cars. When these new things emerge they’re clunky, they’re noisy, they break. But eventually they dominate. I think this will happen for transportation again, specifically for daily, short-range, urban transportation. We’ve built and released two vehicles. Cora is the bigger one and is a totally self-driving plane. The Flyer is a hybrid. The controls are so easy that I can teach you to fly it in five minutes. You have a joystick for forward, backward, left, and right, and for your other hand you have a lever that lets you go up and down. You let go of the controls and you stay where you are.
Michelle Groskopf Culture Taylor Swift and Beyoncé Are Resurrecting the American Movie Theater Angela Watercutter Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Business Sweden’s Tesla Blockade Is Spreading Morgan Meaker On Artificial Intelligence : I don’t want to downplay the theoretical concern that we might make systems that make bad decisions. But I always look at technology as a way to make current people into superhumans. You can take off from California and be in Europe in 10 hours. That’s a superhuman capability. With AI , we could turn people into instant experts. There’s a system for salespeople that can distill how to behave from the highest performers and then present that best behavior to the lower-performing salespeople, who become top agents in, like, a day. So you don’t have to spend 10,000 hours learning something. That can be a super exciting vision. Just imagine you could become a world-class doctor in one day.
First mobile phone : Danger Hiptop — Preferred mode of transit : Bicycle — Fun fact : Human saliva boils at 63,000 feet On Optimism : Maybe only 1 percent of interesting stuff has been invented yet. That’s something I think people often don’t digest. We take technological progress and new inventions for granted. They come along, we love them, we want them, we can’t imagine living without them. But somehow people think that progress is going to stop there. Or it’s going to be bad or threatening. Yes, there’s a danger of abuse, no question. Almost any technology has a danger of abuse. You can abuse a kitchen knife and kill somebody. But we always find a way to make things useful in some kind of positive way.
On Sam Altman : Sam is impressive in all dimensions—in his thoughtfulness, in his sheer intellect, in his drive, in his ability to make magic happen. His present work focuses on artificial intelligence. And while most of us in AI say let’s do one thing—like build self-driving cars—Sam wants to solve all of intelligence at ­ OpenAI , where he has dozens of researchers and engineers working on a safe autonomous future. So he has a box that could be good at playing Go or chess, could drive a self-driving car, could help dermatologists find skin cancer. I think that step toward general artificial intelligence is enormously important. If he succeeds, then this will transform society at a bigger scale than the steam engine or penicillin. You cannot get any grander than that. And even if he has only a 5 percent chance of success, it’s worth trying.
This article appears in the October issue.
Subscribe now.
MORE FROM WIRED@25 : 2003-2008 Editor's Letter: Tech has turned the world upside down. Who will shake up the next 25 years ? Opening essay by Adam Rogers: On the front lines as the digital revolution conquered all Jony Ive and Evan Sharp : Creating order out of chaos Anne Wojcicki and Keller Rinaudo : Blood from a drone Alexis Ohanian and Jewel Burks : Visualizing diversity Mark Zuckerberg and Dreamers : Writing the next chapter Join us for a four-day celebration of our anniversary in San Francisco, October 12–15. From a robot petting zoo to provocative onstage conversations, you won't want to miss it. More information at www.Wired.com/25.
Features Editor X Topics magazine-26.10 WIRED25 artificial intelligence Y Combinator OpenAI Will Knight Joel Khalili Joel Khalili Joel Khalili Joel Khalili Steven Levy Jacopo Prisco Will Knight Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
