Open Navigation Menu To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revisit this article, select My Account, then View saved stories Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Why Some Cities Are Banning Facial Recognition Technology About Released on 08/06/2019 Have you noticed that facial recognition is everywhere at the moment? It's how we unlock our phones, tag people on Facebook, and at some US airports, it's being used to speed up the process of boarding an aircraft.
But there are also concerns about this technology as well from lawmakers and civil rights groups.
I'm here with Gretchen Greene, a computer vision expert and lawyer, who's going to help us understand this technology, thank you for joining us Gretchen.
Hi Tom, great to be here.
The uses that are really driving the public debate right now, are around the government uses, and so we've seen that the city of San Francisco where we are now recently banned use of facial recognition by it's agencies, Oakland across the bay, did so too, and so did some of lower Massachusetts.
It's very unusual for a government at any level to completely ban a technology, what's driving this? Right, so one of the uses, or maybe the primary use that I think drives that is law enforcement's use, and so besides it borders, it's also local government.
You've seen it on TV episodes, where on crime shows, they just sort of search, and it's like, oh that's who that is, one of the issues is how that intersects with overall surveillance possibilities.
The thing which is unprecedented right now is the number of surveillance cameras, both private and public.
If you were to connect those into a network where it was easy to get that data in a continuous way, and then you combine it with tools like facial recognition that could allow the automated processing of the data.
You could track everyone, potentially, all of the time, backwards to as far as you had surveillance data.
Now we're not there, but if you've got a camera there's still the question of can the police get a search warrant, or can they just ask you for it.
Tell us a little bit about this technology, so how does it work and how are these systems being made? [Gretchen] Ultimately, what it does is it's finding patterns.
And there's multiple layers that are finding different kinds of patterns, but you can imagine with your eyes that if you really simplified it, so you zoomed way out and you had this blurry image, there's kind of a dark band right here.
So that's in one of the layers, one of the patterns that the model is picking up, and then you have to give it examples of pictures that you've labeled, either it can be a yes no, there's a face in the picture, there's not, or it can be where the face is, or it can be who the face is, and it might be millions of examples that you need to give it for it to figure out what are the patterns that it should be looking for.
Where does that data come from? Well it depends actually on who's using it.
Where does government get images, so I would say government databases, departments of motor vehicle, state department records, those kinds of records are starting to be assembled into databases that the FBI for instance has access to, Not all states but some.
Where does, big tech get images from as a primary source? Well people post them all the time.
I said what you would need is a picture of someone and a label that said who is this.
So if you put up a picture or you see a picture and you say oh, well this is my friend Jack, and this is my friend Sue, now you've provided them that labeled training data that they can use for their facial recognition algorithms.
It's also got much more accessible, so not only the big tech companies, with deep pockets and a lot of scientists can do this sort of thing, so it's been proliferating, absolutely.
They're showing up in a lot of different places, commercial, all kinds of uses.
How are they being used? Private security, so it's being used at large events, there was a report in China about someone who had an outstanding warrant or the equivalent going to a big concert and being identified by facial recognition.
It's being used for advertisements, a closely related technology is a motion recognition, which can be done in a lot of ways, but one of them is through looking at the face.
So if you can see how someone reacts to an electronic billboard outside a store, you can change the electronic billboard to try to make it more enticing to them.
It's also being used in education with robot human interactions, having a robot that has a nice personality, but trying to interact, and so it has to understand when someone is looking at it.
Yeah, so a really broad span, and lots of them seem fairly innocuous, some of them I guess may seem a bit unusual, we don't expect billboards to scan our faces or look at us, and why does the government want this technology, so in law enforcement for example what benefits do they see from having the ability to search faces in a database? Law enforcement is interested in tools to help them do their job better.
If you've got a database full of pictures and their identities, and then you have a picture of somebody from the 7/11 that got robbed.
Right now you would take that picture and pass it around to the officers who do work in that area, you'd maybe go around the neighborhood, say does anybody know who this is.
Well one, that'll take longer, but the other thing is, maybe nobody knows.
And maybe that picture is somewhere in this database, but your database has 10,000 pictures in it.
It'll take a very long time to go one by one.
It'll matter probably less in the case of a 7/11 that you find them quickly, but the longer that it takes to solve a case, the less likely that it is to be solved, and there are other kinds of crimes, kidnappings, where it's very important to solve it quickly.
Raises a question that a lot of civil liberties groups ask, which is about, what if the facial recognition software is wrong, what if it misidentifies someone, and I've heard concerns that there'll be different error rates for different demographics and different communities.
Right, so there's two kinds of concerns to have.
What if it's right, should we be using something in a certain way at all, and then what if it's wrong, even if it's only wrong sometimes, what are the effects of it being wrong.
It changes how the police officer will react, which could be good or bad.
We want the officer to be safe, but they will be more likely to take more extreme action, and to think that they're in danger, when maybe they're actually not.
So for instance if it's a misidentification, there is research out of MIT, where dark skin is not as likely to be correctly identified as light, particularly women with dark skin, not as likely to be correctly identified.
There are also general concerns about the effects on anyone from any community of just knowing that the government may be tracking your face, may be watching you.
Even if I trust the government, I do care, I would rather live in a world where I feel like I have some privacy, even in public spaces, that not all is known, because if people know where you are, you might not go there, you might not do those things, even though they're things that are bedrock of what we think people in this country should be able to do.
For instance, coming out as gay is less problematic professionally now than it was in the US, but still potentially problematic, and so if an individual wants to make the choice when to publicly disclose that, then they don't want facial recognition technology identifying that they are walking down the street to the LGBTQ center, so there are kinds of membership issues of certain groups in society where we're not as a government trying to stop or as a society really trying to stop certain kinds of actions, we're not trying to stop people from going to church, we're not trying to stop them from going to community centers.
But we will if they are afraid of what will the implications be in an environment that is hostile to, for instance, a certain ethnicity, or a certain religion.
So really it's very difficult to opt out of either government facial recgonition or commercial, it sounds like.
It is very difficult, and that's one reason that it is more controversial than some other things like fingerprints would be, because it can be done at a distance when you don't know it's being done, and in a way that it's very difficult to opt out.
And some people might think that, well, there would be some kind of privacy laws, or something that might restrict ideas like that, I mean, is there any regulation at the federal or state level that specifically regulates facial recognition? We're seeing more happening on the local levels, state or city, right now, than at the federal, the federal government has not said, we are regulating this and therefore local governments cannot, and then because of that we're seeing a patchwork of states and cities thinking about doing something.
I wonder what do you think the future looks like? Are we in a period that we will look back on and say, wow, this technology was really unfettered back then, but now we have some protections? Is that where things are going, or is it too late and this is just how it's gonna be? There aren't that many companies where facial recognition is their quo business, and it's not deeply embedded in what the government is doing and how we're functioning, even if it were, I don't think it would be necessarily too late to say as a society, what are the implications and the effect that government use of technologies that can be used for surveillance, like facial recognition, can have on other rights.
So freedom of speech, expression, religion, do we want this or not, this is a choice that we're making.
And there are a number of ways to say that we don't wanna make that choice, or that we do, we should decide as a society.
Thank you for joining us Gretchen, it'll be interesting to see how all this plays out.
Good to be here Tom.
[electronic music] How the Disco Clam Uses Light to Fight Super-Strong Predators Architect Explains How Homes Could be 3D Printed on Mars and Earth Scientist Explains How Rare Genetics Allow Some to Sleep Only 4 Hours a Night Scientist Explains Unsinkable Metal That Could Prevent Disasters at Sea Is Invisibility Possible? An Inventor and a Physicist Explain Scientist Explains Why Her Lab Taught Rats to Drive Tiny Cars Mycologist Explains How a Slime Mold Can Solve Mazes How the Two-Hour Marathon Limit Was Broken Research Suggests Cats Like Their Owners as Much as Dogs Researcher Explains Deepfake Videos Scientist Explains How to Study the Metabolism of Ultra High Flying Geese Hurricane Hunter Explains How They Track and Predict Hurricanes Scientist Explains Viral Fish Cannon Video A Biohacker Explains Why He Turned His Leg Into a Hotspot Scientist Explains What Water Pooling in Kilauea's Volcanic Crater Means Bill Nye Explains the Science Behind Solar Sailing Vision Scientist Explains Why These Praying Mantises Are Wearing 3D Glasses Why Some Cities Are Banning Facial Recognition Technology Scientist's Map Explains Climate Change Scientist Explains How Moon Mining Would Work Scientist Explains How She Captured Rare Footage of a Giant Squid Doctor Explains How Sunscreen Affects Your Body Stranger Things is Getting a New Mall! But Today Malls Are Dying. What Happened? The Limits of Human Endurance Might Be Our Guts Meet the First College Students to Launch a Rocket Into Space Scientist Explains Why Dogs Can Smell Better Than Robots A Harvard Professor Explains What the Avengers Can Teach Us About Philosophy NASA Twin Study: How Space Changes Our Bodies What the Black Hole Picture Means for Researchers Scientist Explains How to Levitate Objects With Sound Why Scientists and Artists Want The Blackest Substances on Earth Biologist Explains How Drones Catching Whale "Snot" Helps Research Researcher Explains Why Humans Can't Spot Real-Life Deepfake Masks Doctor Explains What You Need to Know About The Coronavirus VFX Artist Breaks Down This Year's Best Visual Effects Nominees How Doctors on Earth Treated a Blood Clot in Space Scientist Explains Why Some Cats Eat Human Corpses Voting Expert Explains How Voting Technology Will Impact the 2020 Election Doctor Explains What You Need to Know About Pandemics ER Doctor Explains How They're Handling Covid-19 Why This Taste Map Is Wrong Q&A: What's Next for the Coronavirus Pandemic? Why Captive Tigers Can’t Be Reintroduced to the Wild How Covid-19 Immunity Compares to Other Diseases 5 Mistakes to Avoid as We Try to Stop Covid-19 How This Emergency Ventilator Could Keep Covid-19 Patients Alive Why NASA Made a Helicopter for Mars Theoretical Physicist Breaks Down the Marvel Multiverse Former NASA Astronaut Explains Jeff Bezos's Space Flight Physics Student Breaks Down Gymnastics Physics What Do Cities Look Like Under a Microscope? Inside the Largest Bitcoin Mine in The U.S.
How Caffeine Has Fueled History How Mushroom Time-Lapses Are Filmed Why You’ll Fail the Milk Crate Challenge Why Vegan Cheese Doesn't Melt How 250 Cameras Filmed Neill Blomkamp's Demonic How Meme Detectives Stop NFT Fraud How Disney Designed a Robotic Spider-Man How Online Conspiracy Groups Compare to Cults Dune Costume Designers Break Down Dune’s Stillsuits Korean Phrases You Missed in 'Squid Game' Why Scientists Are Stress Testing Tardigrades Every Prototype that Led to a Realistic Prosthetic Arm Why the Toilet Needs an Upgrade How Animals Are Evolving Because of Climate Change How Stop-Motion Movies Are Animated at Aardman Astronomer Explains How NASA Detects Asteroids Are We Living In A Simulation? Inside the Journey of a Shipping Container (And Why the Supply Chain Is So Backed Up) The Science of Slow Aging How Nose Swabs Detect New Covid-19 Strains Samsung S22 Ultra Explained in 3 Minutes The Science Behind Elon Musk’s Neuralink Brain Chip Every Prototype to Make a Humanoid Robot Chemist Breaks Down How At-Home Covid Tests Work A Timeline of Russian Cyberattacks on Ukraine VFX Artist Breaks Down Oscar-Nominated CGI Why Smartphone Night Photos Are So Good Now We Invented the Perfect WIRED Autocomplete Glue How Everything Everywhere All at Once's Visual Effects Were Made How Dogs Coevolved with Humans How an Architect Redesigns NYC Streets Viking Expert Breaks Down The Northman Weapons J. Kenji López-Alt Breaks Down the Science of Stir-Fry How A.I. Is Changing Hollywood How Trash Goes From Garbage Cans to Landfills Veterinarian Explains How to Prevent Pet Separation Anxiety The Science Behind Genetically Modified Mosquitoes How Scientists & Filmmakers Brought Prehistoric Planet's Dinosaurs to Life All the Ways Google Gets Street View Images How Public Cameras Recognize and Track You How the Nuro Robotic Delivery Car Was Built Biologist Explains the Unexpected Origins of Feathers in Fashion Surgeons Break Down Separating Conjoined Twins Former Air Force Pilot Breaks Down UFO Footage Bug Expert Explains Why Cicadas Are So Loud The Best of CES 2021 Health Expert Explains What You Need to Know About Quarantines Scientist Explains How People Might Hibernate Like Bears Could a Chernobyl Level Nuclear Disaster Happen in the US? Neuroscientist Explains ASMR's Effects on the Brain & The Body Why Top Scientists Are Pretending an Asteroid is Headed for Earth Epidemiologist Answers Common Monkeypox Questions Bill Nye Breaks Down Webb Telescope Space Images How This Humanoid Robot Diver Was Designed Every Trick a Pro GeoGuessr Player Uses to Win How NASA Biologists Plan to Grow Plants on the Moon How FIFA Graphics & Gameplay Are Evolving (1993 - 2023) How a Vet Performs Dangerous Surgeries on Wild Animals This Heart is Not Human How Entomologists Use Insects to Solve Crimes Former NASA Astronaut Breaks Down a Rocket Launch Chess Pro Explains How to Spot Cheaters Why Billionaires Are Actually Ruining the Economy How to Keep Your New Year’s Resolutions for More Than a Week The Biology Behind The Last of Us English Teacher Grades Homework By ChatGPT All the Ways a Cold Plunge Affects the Body Spy Historian Debunks Chinese Spy Balloon Theories A.I. Tries 20 Jobs | WIRED Mathematician Breaks Down the Best Ways to Win the Lottery Why Music Festivals Sound Better Than Ever Pro Interpreters vs. AI Challenge: Who Translates Faster and Better? Why The Average Human Couldn't Drive An F1 Car Atomic Expert Explains "Oppenheimer" Bomb Scenes Every 'Useless' Body Part Explained From Head to Toe How Pilots and Scientists Are Thinking About the Future of Air Travel How To Max Out At Every Fantasy Football Position (Ft. Matthew Berry) All The Ways Mt. Everest Can Kill You How Fat Bears Bulk Up To Hibernate (And Why We Love To See It) Why Vintage Tech Is So Valuable To Collectors 8 Photos That Tell The History of Humans In Space How Every Organ in Your Body Ages From Head to Toe Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
