Open Navigation Menu To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revisit this article, select My Account, then View saved stories Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons What the AI Behind AlphaGo Teaches Us About Humanity About Released on 05/17/2016 [Narrator] Game one surprised Go Master Lee Sedol.
Game two left him speechless, and in game three he felt powerless.
Sedol came back to win in game four but the final game ended with Google's AlphaGo defeating the Go master again.
A computer had beaten the best Go player in the world, four to one.
The weight of this defeat stirred a certain sadness in many people around the world because unlike chess, Go is a complex game that requires human intuition and creativity or so it was thought.
AlphaGo's system uses deep neuro-networks which approximate the web of neurons in the human brain.
These networks learn to perform tasks by analyzing large amounts of digital data.
The AlphaGo team took it a step farther.
Using reinforcement learning, they set up countless matches in which different versions of AlphaGo played each other.
So AlphaGo learns from human moves, and then it develops its own strategy.
It understands how humans play, but it can also look beyond that to play an entirely different level of the game.
This may seem frightening, but the reality is that the technologies at the heart of AlphaGo are the future.
They're poised to reinvent everything from robotics to scientific research.
In the years to come as we humans work with these machines our genius will only grow in tandem with our creations.
Well, hopefully.
So don't view it as human versus machine, but rather human and machine.
WIRED25: Google CEO Sundar Pichai on Doing Business in China, Working with the Military, and More President Barack Obama on the Future of AI Google Home Is The Assistant That Will Never Leave You Alone Game of Clouds: Dropbox Declares Independence From Amazon LG's Hub Bots Are Seriously Cute AI Assistants Google Maps Is Upgrading Street View and You Can Help Here's Everything New From Google Google's Daydream View Is a VR Eye Pillow Google's New VR Headset Is Like Cardboard—Except Comfortable (and Cozy) How to Control What Alexa and Google Assistant Do With Your Voice Data Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
