Open Navigation Menu To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revisit this article, select My Account, then View saved stories Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons President Barack Obama on How Artificial Intelligence Will Affect Jobs About Credits Released on 10/12/2016 How we think about the interface between human and machines I think is something that I know Joi's thought a lot about.
This is where the idea of extended intelligence makes a lot of sense.
It also is probably the better way of thinking about it for our economy and jobs because people worry that well, are we gonna get into a situation where the machine's just doing everything? And one of the promising aspects of AI is it turns out that, for example, even in playing chess, a computer with a human oftentimes can Do better.
Do better than just the computer.
Well, think about that application broadly to a lot of disciplines.
What we wanna be able to do is develop systems that are open enough, transparent enough, that human judgement, human imagination, creativity are still intruding, are still active, but a lot of the routine stuff is happening day to day.
And in some ways, that's just analogous to how we use calculators, right? It's an extension of our intelligence, but it's a simple enough one that it doesn't feel as threatening as it does, partly because we understand exactly what's going on, and with a lot of these systems, you start losing track of what are they doing? And I know that's a problem you've been thinking about a lot.
For us to be successful in these areas, we really have to think through the economic implications because most people aren't spending a lot of time right now worried about singularity.
They are worrying about, wow, is my job gonna be replaced by a machine.
And I tend to be on the optimistic side, that historically, we've absorbed new technologies, and people find that new jobs are created, and they migrate, and our standards of living generally go up.
I do think that we may be in a slightly different period now simply because of the pervasive applicability of AI and other technologies, where high-skill folks do very well in these systems.
They can leverage their talents, they can interface with machines to extend their reach, their sales, their products, their services.
Low-wage, low-skill individuals become more and more redundant, and their jobs may not be replaced, but wages are suppressed.
And if we are going to successfully manage this transition, we are going to have to have a societal conversation about how do we manage that? How are we training and ensuring the economy's inclusive? If, in fact, we're producing more than ever, but more and more of it's going to a small group at the top, how do we make sure folks have a living income? What does it means in terms of us supporting things like the arts or culture or making sure our veterans are getting cared for? So the social compact has to accommodate these new technologies, and our economic models have to accommodate them.
The good news is that's not going to happen overnight.
Let's say that's a 20, 30 year process.
If we're making good decisions now, then we can build the runways, so that by the time AI is fully incorporated into our economic life, people welcome it as opposed to reject it, but we can't assume that.
And if we continue on current trends, you're gonna continue to see these populist movements, both on the left and on the right, that believe that technology, globalization, AI, the guys who are off on their own staring at a computer screen trying to figure this stuff out, that all of that is threatening to the day to day lives of ordinary people and the values that they cherish and notions of community.
And we have to guard against that.
That starts with making sure that the economic implications are worked out.
It's actually, though, non-intuitive which jobs get displaced because I would bet that if you had a computer that understood the medical system and was very good at diagnostics, [Barack] The nurse is the one.
The resident nurse, or the pharmacist.
[Barack] Is the least likely to be replaced because of the human touch.
And maybe the amount of school they have to go is just a community college instead of medical school.
My rule of thumb is if a person looks like they're doing work that a robot or an AI could do, they're gonna be more likely displaced, and there's actually a very high level jobs, maybe some categories of lawyers or auditors that might disappear, whereas a lot of the service businesses, the arts, I think that things that involve things that computers just aren't well suited for, and I think to President Obama's point, I think that we have some time, and I don't know what you think about universal basic income, but as we start to see people getting displaced, there's also this idea of work provides the structure for people, it provides the purpose.
And so, can we look at other models, like academia or the arts, where people have purpose, or people who take care of kids at home, and can we somehow, 'cause we don't calculate moms into GDP, it's crazy, right? So I think one of the problems is, there's this general notion on Wall Street how can you be so smart, you don't have any money.
And now, going into academia, I realize, well, there are a lot of smart people with no money.
And so I think that also this ties into the values of society because as we start to see other work that may actually be viable work, it just isn't viewed as work.
You're exactly right, and that's what I mean about redesigning the social compact.
Now, whether a universal income is the right model, is that going to be accepted by a broad base of people, that's a debate that we'll be having over the next 10 years, next 20 years.
And you're also right, that the jobs that are gonna be displaced by AI are not just low skill service jobs, they might be high skill jobs, but ones that are repeatable and computers can do.
What is indisputable, though, is that as AI gets further incorporated and this society potentially gets wealthier, that the link between production and distribution, how much you work and how much you make gets further and further attenuated because the computers are doing a lot of the work.
And as a consequence, we, then, have to make some tougher decisions.
We already have this problem, it's just it's not as hypercharged as it's going to be.
We underpay teachers despite the fact that that's a really hard job that's really hard for a computer to do well, to replace a really good teacher.
But we don't value teachers because it used to be primarily women's work or because, there are a whole host of reasons why we don't.
For us to reexamine what we value, what we collectively are willing to pay for, whether it's teachers, nurses, caregivers, moms, dads who stay at home, artists, all the things that are incredibly valuable to us, but right now don't rank high on the totem pole, that's a conversation that we need to begin to have, and Joi's identified, I think, the ways in which this could be solved, but it's gonna require, I think, a new way of thinking, and that's not gonna happen right away.
Starring: President Barack Obama, Editor in Chief Scott Dadich, MIT Media Lab Director Joi Ito President Barack Obama Guest-Edits WIRED's November Issue President Barack Obama on the Future of AI President Barack Obama on the True Meaning of Star Trek President Barack Obama on How Artificial Intelligence Will Affect Jobs President Barack Obama on What AI Means for National Security President Barack Obama on Fixing Government With Technology President Barack Obama on How We'll Embrace Self-Driving Cars President Barack Obama on Bureaucracy VS. Moonshots Huggable Robot Befriends Girl in Hospital How Tech Companies Avoid Taxes Explained with Magic Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
