Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Aarian Marshall Business Amazon Shakes Up the Race for Self-Driving—and Ride-Hailing Zoox is testing its self-driving software on Toyota Highlanders in San Francisco.
Photograph: Michael Short/Bloomberg /Getty Images Save this story Save Save this story Save Application Hardware Human-computer interaction Safety Company Amazon End User Consumer Big company Sector Manufacturing Consumer services Source Data Sensors Technology Machine learning Machine vision Robotics Uber CEO Dara Khosrowshahi says his company wants to be the “Amazon for transportation.” Friday, Amazon made clear that it intends to be the Amazon for transportation.
The ecommerce giant said it had agreed to acquire Bay Area–based autonomous vehicle company Zoox, a deal reportedly worth more than $1 billion. (Amazon did not respond to WIRED's queries.) Since its founding in 2014, Zoox has been known for its technical chops , its secretiveness, and its sky-high ambition. While Alphabet's Waymo is focusing on self-driving tech and leaving the car building to places like Detroit, Zoox has stuck to its plan to design a robotaxi from the ground up—and operate a ride-hail service. In 2018, it showed off its first prototype vehicles, which look like sensor-laden golf carts on steroids.
 The company has also been testing its software on more conventional-looking Toyota Highlanders in San Francisco, where it is learning to handle chaotic city streets.
In a press release, Amazon signaled that it will not stray from Zoox’s formidable self-driving goals. “We’re acquiring Zoox to help bring their vision of autonomous ride hailing to reality,” it wrote in the headline. Jeff Wilke, Amazon CEO of global consumer, said in a statement that “Zoox is working to imagine, invent, and design a world-class autonomous ride-hailing experience.” Which means the autonomous-taxi race just got more interesting. Amazon’s entrance to the space “is an existential threat to Uber and Lyft ,” says Asad Hussain, a mobility tech analyst at the market analytics company Pitchbook.
In theory, autonomous vehicles and ride-hail services go hand in hand. As Uber and Lyft struggle to iron out the economics of trips, both continue to spend millions each year recruiting and retaining drivers. Moves by states including New York and California to require those drivers to be considered employees further threaten their business models. A self-driving car wouldn't need a driver.
But lately, robotaxis have seemed to hit a rut, as the tech has proved more challenging than tech and auto executives once promised. In the last two years, well-funded competitors like Uber, Lyft, Waymo, Cruise (a subsidiary of General Motors), and ArgoAI (which is owned in part by Ford and Volkswagen) have delayed their timelines for deploying self-driving vehicles. Amazon acquired Zoox for well below its 2018 valuation of $3.2 billion.
Culture Taylor Swift and Beyoncé Are Resurrecting the American Movie Theater Angela Watercutter Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Business Sweden’s Tesla Blockade Is Spreading Morgan Meaker Today, only Waymo is running an commercial, autonomous ride-hail service , only in the Phoenix metro area, and only occasionally without someone in the driver's seat monitoring the nascent tech. In 2015, Chris Urmson, a former Google self-driving head who later cofounded self-driving startup Aurora , suggested his 11-year-old son might never need a driver’s license; the son has started learning to drive.
 Just this week, Aurora signaled it would shift its focus away from self-driving taxis and toward self-driving trucks. “If you want to get to market with a safe system quickly, you can do no better than to start in trucking,” Aurora cofounder Sterling Anderson said at an event hosted by The Information.
By Alex Davies and Aarian Marshall If Amazon pushes ahead with its own ride-hail network using Zoox vehicles, the company may have some built-in advantages. In a note published a month ago, after The Wall Street Journal first reported that the Zoox deal was in the works, Morgan Stanley analyst Brian Nowak wrote that the company could offer discounts to its 100-million-plus Prime members, as it does at Whole Foods. He also theorized that Amazon could jump ahead of automakers, whose ability to pay for moon-shot tech like autonomous vehicles has waned during the Covid-19 \–induced recession. “In a post-Covid world, we believe fewer and more powerful players will be in position to deploy capital and talent to solving autonomy with a ‘play to win’ mindset,” Nowak wrote.
Both Uber and Lyft have invested in self-driving tech. But despite a $1 billion infusion last year from Toyota, automotive supplier Denso, and the Softbank Vision Fund, Uber is still seen as being behind on the technology; it recently said it will close an artificial intelligence lab.
 Uber is now testing self-driving cars in fewer places than it was before a fatal 2018 collision between one of its autonomous vehicles and an Arizona woman. An executive told CNBC this year that self-driving tech has to move through development, piloting, and commercialization stages—and that Uber is still at development.
Lyft, meanwhile, has its own self-driving center in Palo Alto and said this week that it's making use of data from sensors mounted on a small group of its ride-hail drivers’ cars to train its robotaxi software. But the company also has partnered with Aptiv and Waymo to put their self-driving cars on its network. Hussain says the ride-hail incumbents should seriously consider making more of those sorts of deals. “As this ecosystem develops, it makes sense to partner,” he says.
Culture Taylor Swift and Beyoncé Are Resurrecting the American Movie Theater Angela Watercutter Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Business Sweden’s Tesla Blockade Is Spreading Morgan Meaker Amazon has made other weighty investments in transportation. It invested in Aurora a year ago as part of the company’s $530 million Series B round and has reportedly hauled goods on self-driving trucks with the robotruck startup Embark.
 Amazon also led a $700 million investment round into the electric-truck startup Rivian and last fall announced it would buy 100,000 electric delivery vans from the company by 2030. The company has sunk money into a secretive ( and delayed ) drone project and is expanding its aircraft fleet.
While Amazon’s statements on Friday emphasized self-driving, observers say they wouldn’t be surprised if the autonomous technology acquired as part of the Zoox deal shows up in trucks, delivery vans, or warehouse equipment. After all, Amazon seems to want to be the Amazon for everything.
We can protect the economy from pandemics.
Why didn't we ? Retro hackers are building a better Nintendo Game Boy The country is reopening.
I’m still on lockdown How to clean up your old social media posts Walmart employees are out to show its anti-theft AI doesn't work 👁 Is the brain a useful model for AI ? Plus: Get the latest AI news 🏃🏽‍♀️ Want the best tools to get healthy? Check out our Gear team’s picks for the best fitness trackers , running gear (including shoes and socks ), and best headphones Staff Writer X Topics Self-Driving Cars Autonomous Vehicles Uber Lyft Amazon artificial intelligence Khari Johnson Will Knight Kari McMahon Amit Katwala Amit Katwala Andy Greenberg David Gilbert Joel Khalili Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
