Featured Topics Newsletters Events Podcasts Featured Topics Newsletters Events Podcasts Magazine View previous issues MIT News Magazine The Education issue How AI is transforming the classroom. Surveilling students. Teaching the biliterate brain to read. What we’ve learned from “learning to code.” Plus keyboard obsessions, wildfire resilience, and shroom speak.
Letter from the editor View previous issue View next issue Features Categorized in Humans and technology Teachers in Denmark are using apps to audit their students’ moods Companies say the software can help improve well-being, but some experts worry it could have the opposite effect.
Categorized in Artificial intelligence How AI is helping historians better understand our past The historians of tomorrow are using computer science to analyze how people lived centuries ago.
Categorized in Artificial intelligence ChatGPT is going to change education, not destroy it The narrative around cheating students doesn’t tell the whole story. Meet the teachers who think generative AI could actually make learning better.
Categorized in Computing Learning to code isn’t enough Historically, learn-to-code efforts have provided opportunities for the few, but new efforts are aiming to be inclusive.
Categorized in Humans and technology How to teach kids who flip between book and screen Technology is changing how we read—and that means we need to rethink how we teach.
Categorized in Climate change and energy The quest to build wildfire-resistant homes With climate change making more communities vulnerable to fire across the world, adaptation may require more social change than materials engineering.
Also in this issue How do fungi communicate? Each fungus may “speak” with many other species— and it turns out they have a lot to say.
Categorized in Biotechnology and health This Nigerian EV entrepreneur hopes to go head to head with Tesla Mustapha Gajibo started with electric retrofits of community vehicles like motorized tricycles and now aims to bring electrification to communal buses.
Categorized in Profile Banning ChatGPT will do more harm than good A high school senior argues that ChatGPT can help reshape education for the better.
Categorized in Op-Ed Bringing the lofty ideas of pure math down to earth There is no shortage of popular books and lectures on math—but they can only teach us so much.
Categorized in Humans and technology Despite its charms, AI is little more than an excellent liar You can be both seduced by and skeptical of AI.
Categorized in Artificial intelligence Inmates are using VR to learn real-world skills Corrections systems are using simulators to provide incarcerated individuals with more lifelike instruction. But is it working? Categorized in Humans and technology The air-cleaning qualities of plants get a genetically modified boost Indoor plants aren’t as good for air quality as you might think. Neoplants, a startup, aims to fix that.
Categorized in Biotechnology and health Shift happens: Writing about the history of keyboards After discovering that a history of keyboards— from typewriters to iPhones—had yet to be written, designer and typographer Marcin Wichary got to work.
Categorized in Field notes Past issues Updated The latest iteration of a legacy Advertise with MIT Technology Review © 2023 MIT Technology Review About About us Careers Custom content Advertise with us International Editions Republishing MIT News Help Help & FAQ My subscription Editorial guidelines Privacy policy Terms of Service Write for us Contact us twitterlink opens in a new window facebooklink opens in a new window instagramlink opens in a new window rsslink opens in a new window linkedinlink opens in a new window
