The Verge homepage The Verge homepage The Verge The Verge logo.
/ Tech / Reviews / Science / Entertainment / More Menu Expand Menu Tech / Artificial Intelligence / Google Google Translate supports new languages for the first time in four years, including Uyghur Google Translate supports new languages for the first time in four years, including Uyghur / Five new languages for a total of 108 By Nick Statt , is a Senior Producer on Decoder. Previously, he wrote about technology and gaming for Naavik, Protocol, and The Verge.
| Share this story Google Translate is adding support for five new languages today, bringing its total to 108 languages. The move marks the first addition of new languages to Google’s artificial intelligence-powered translation product in four years, the company says. Among the new languages added are Kinyarwanda, Odia, Tatar, Turkmen, and Uyghur, and Google says the collective speaking population of all five combined is about 75 million people around the globe.
Part of the issue with supporting these languages in the past was finding an ample amount of online text with which to train its machine learning models. Another issue is sourcing enough human community members who can help Google refine the models so that they’re at the level of more widely spoken languages. But the company says it has seen progress in the last few years on both fronts.
The collective population speaking these new languages is about 75 million “Google Translate learns from existing translations found on the web, and when languages don’t have an abundance of web content, it’s been difficult for our system to support them effectively,” a company spokesperson said in a statement. “However, due to recent advances in our machine learning technology, and active involvement from our Google Translate Community members, we’ve been able to add support for these languages.” The update will start rolling out to 1 percent of Google Translate users starting today, the company says, with a steady ramping up to the full Translate user base across Android and iOS in the coming days. Translate will support both text translation and website translation for the five new languages and virtual keyboard input for three of them — Kinyarwanda, Tatar, and Uyghur.
Of particular geopolitical significance is Google’s support of the Uyghur language, which is spoken by 12 million people who predominantly live in the autonomous Xinjiang region of northwest China. Over the last few years, the Chinese government has waged a campaign against the Turkic Muslim minority group living there , involving mass surveillance, work and travel restrictions, and detention in Communist Party “re-education camps” under the guise of national security, causing international alarm over potential human rights abuses.
Sam Altman fired as CEO of OpenAI Windows is now an app for iPhones, iPads, Macs, and PCs Apple says iPhones will support RCS in 2024 A hefty stable Steam Deck update gives the Dock a brand-new feature Google’s new Titan security keys are ready for a world without passwords Verge Deals / Sign up for Verge Deals to get deals on products we've tested sent to your inbox daily.
From our sponsor Advertiser Content From More from Tech Amazon, Microsoft, and India crack down on tech support scams Amazon eliminated plastic packaging at one of its warehouses Amazon has renewed Gen V for a sophomore season Universal Music sues AI company Anthropic for distributing song lyrics Advertiser Content From Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do Not Sell Or Share My Personal Info Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status How We Rate and Review Products Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement The Verge is a vox media network Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2023 Vox Media , LLC. All Rights Reserved
