Featured Topics Newsletters Events Podcasts Featured Topics Newsletters Events Podcasts David Emmes, SM ’76 Olympia, Washington By MIT News Staff archive page M Scott Brauer David Emmes studied mathematics as an MIT graduate student but has long been interested in how the brain enables faculties such as learning, memory, planning, decision making, insight, and creativity. This interest became more focused as three extended family members succumbed to Alzheimer’s disease, a condition that impairs these capabilities in more than 6 million Americans. When he learned about the neuroscience research happening at MIT, he was inspired to direct his philanthropy toward the Picower Institute for Learning and Memory and the McGovern Institute for Brain Research.
Tackling the big picture. “I am impressed by MIT’s approach to Alzheimer’s and other dementias, looking at the brain as a system and trying to understand how these diseases progress and affect individual functions of the brain,” says Emmes. The study of “systems” comes naturally to him: during a 29-year career at IBM, he designed and developed enhancements to its operating system created for large enterprise computer workloads, and he became co-inventor on 15 US patents. “MIT researchers are intense, focused, and dedicated,” he says. “Their perseverance makes any investment both productive and worthwhile.” Fueling research today and tomorrow. Emmes shares the MIT research community’s excitement at the prospect of creating specialized treatments for Alzheimer’s disease. In addition to the gifts he’s already made, he has made a bequest in his estate plans to support neuroscience research at MIT. “These research initiatives are multi-decade efforts that I value and wish to support beyond my lifetime,” he says.
Help MIT build a better world. For more information, contact Amy Goldman: 617.253.4082; goldmana@mit.edu. Or visit giving.mit.edu/planned-giving.
hide by MIT News Staff Share linkedinlink opens in a new window twitterlink opens in a new window facebooklink opens in a new window emaillink opens in a new window This story was part of our November/December 2023 issue.
Popular This new data poisoning tool lets artists fight back against generative AI Melissa Heikkilä Everything you need to know about artificial wombs Cassandra Willyard Deepfakes of Chinese influencers are livestreaming 24/7 Zeyi Yang How to fix the internet Katie Notopoulos Keep Reading Most Popular This new data poisoning tool lets artists fight back against generative AI The tool, called Nightshade, messes up training data in ways that could cause serious damage to image-generating AI models.
By Melissa Heikkilä archive page Everything you need to know about artificial wombs Artificial wombs are nearing human trials. But the goal is to save the littlest preemies, not replace the uterus.
By Cassandra Willyard archive page Deepfakes of Chinese influencers are livestreaming 24/7 With just a few minutes of sample video and $1,000, brands never have to stop selling their products.
By Zeyi Yang archive page How to fix the internet If we want online discourse to improve, we need to move beyond the big platforms.
By Katie Notopoulos archive page Stay connected Illustration by Rose Wong Get the latest updates from MIT Technology Review Discover special offers, top stories, upcoming events, and more.
Enter your email Thank you for submitting your email! It looks like something went wrong.
We’re having trouble saving your preferences. Try refreshing this page and updating them one more time. If you continue to get this message, reach out to us at customer-service@technologyreview.com with a list of newsletters you’d like to receive.
The latest iteration of a legacy Advertise with MIT Technology Review © 2023 MIT Technology Review About About us Careers Custom content Advertise with us International Editions Republishing MIT News Help Help & FAQ My subscription Editorial guidelines Privacy policy Terms of Service Write for us Contact us twitterlink opens in a new window facebooklink opens in a new window instagramlink opens in a new window rsslink opens in a new window linkedinlink opens in a new window
