Open Navigation Menu To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revisit this article, select My Account, then View saved stories Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Lauren Goode Senior Writer Lauren Goode is a senior writer at WIRED covering consumer tech issues. She focuses on the intersection of new technologies and humanity, often through experiential or investigative personal essays. Her coverage areas include communications apps, trends in commerce, AR and VR, subscription services, data and device ownership, and how Silicon Valley culture shapes the products we use. Prior to WIRED she worked at The Verge, Recode, and The Wall Street Journal.
 She lives in San Francisco.
X Business Elon Musk May Have Just Signed X’s Death Warrant Gear Your ‘Dear Algorithm’ Post on Threads Doesn’t Work Gear Inside Mirai, the Hack that Broke the Internet Gear How Humane’s Ai Pin Works Gear A Buzzy VR Startup Pivots Again—This Time to Games Gear Twitter Reckons With Its 1-Year Muskiversary Gear What to Do When Hackers Crash Your Gene Pool Party Gear Google Image Search Will Now Show a Photo’s History. Can It Spot Fakes? Gear Misinformation Is Soaring Online. Don’t Fall for It Business How to Digitize an Entire Government Gear Artificial Intelligence Is Seeping Into All of Your Gadgets Business Where Does Crypto Go From Here? Gear New Pixels, New Assistant, but the Same Old Google Business Google Assistant Finally Gets a Generative AI Glow-Up Business How to Be Extremely Online and Influence People Gear I Guess We’re All Talking to Our Glasses Now Gear Meta’s Smart Glasses and VR Headset Now Serve Up a Bigger Dose of Reality Business Getty Images Plunges Into the Generative AI Pool Business ChatGPT Can Now Talk to You—and Look Into Your Life Gear Alexa Just Got an AI Makeover More Stories Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
