Open Navigation Menu To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revisit this article, select My Account, then View saved stories Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons 'Critical Role' Cast Answers The Web's Most Searched Questions About Released on 08/28/2023 Hi, everybody! Whoa.
We're the cast of Critical Role.
[All] Hi.
And this is the Wired Autocomplete Interview.
[dramatic music] Me first? Yeah Laura, you're first.
[dramatic music] Rip away.
All right, here we go.
Who does Laura Bailey voice in Naruto? Oh. That's a good question.
[all laughing] [Sam] We're off to the races.
I know, wait, I know I voice his mom.
Maaam.
That's how she sounds. Naruto.
Sam and I, Sam and I have both written and directed for that show and I don't know the answer either.
Good.
Where does Laura Bailey get her dice? I get my dice from all over. Conventions, gifting, Etsy.
Critical Role.
I get my dice from the Critical Role store.
Obviously. Thanks, Sam.
Good. Go ahead.
How did Laura Bailey, Travis Willingham meet? When we were extras, right? We were background.
Extras.
We were background extras on this like random internet show.
I don't even know what it was.
1999.
Oh my gosh.
We had to sit at a table for like 12 hours and we weren't allowed to actually talk.
We just stared at each other and fake talked.
Just love at first watermelon, watermelon, watermelon.
I can see him being charming if he never had to like actually say anything. Oh.
Did Laura Bailey sing Daughter of the Sea? I did Sing Daughter of the Sea.
That was for World of Warcraft.
[Sam Scats] That's the one. Is Laura Bailey left-handed? Am I the only left handies in the cast? I think so.
I think so.
Wow.
Yeah, and all of, a lot of my characters in video games, I make them left-handed as well.
Oh really? Mmhm.
Yep, there we are.
Alright.
I only get four.
Who does Travis Willingham voice? Myself, heroes, villains, animals that talk with white gloves.
Oh, I voiced Thor Odinson for about 10 plus years for Marvel.
What does Travis Willingham's tattoo mean? Ooh. Right.
This is Elder Futhark, like Viking runes.
I always said that if I was lucky enough to play Thor for 10 years, I would get a Thor tattoo and instead of getting like a hammer or a winged helmet or something worthy is a big thing in Thor's cannon.
So I got something that represents worthy and now everybody that watches this, some scholar's gonna be like, that's not what that says. You dumb shit.
That says pepperoni pizza.
And our son Ronan will be thrilled.
Why is Travis Willingham CEO? Actually that's a question for the group.
Why? Why am I in that position? Because you're so smart.
He's pretty smart.
You're, yeah, you're our fearless leader.
Someone said we need to open a bank account.
[Marisha] Yeah.
And Travis was like, I'll go do it.
[Liam] Yeah. How tall is Travis Willingham? [Sam] Barefoot, naked? [Liam] In feet.
Okay.
I wouldn't know the meters one.
Three stone.
I'm, I'm six foot four inches tall.
Whoa. Wow.
In bare feet. In shoes, much higher depending on the designer. Send me your stuff.
Chuck that boat.
Ah.
That was good.
That'll do it.
[Matt] Who does Matthew Mercer voice in Vox Machina? Oddly myself a couple times.
I also voice Silas Briarwood in season one, Umbrasyl, the Hope Devourer, in season two, and Orthax, the shatter demon, in season one as well. Yeah.
And Trinket.
And Craven Edge.
I'm, it's all over. What makes Matt Mercer...
[Sam] Tick? [Matt] A good GM? A good GM.
A good GM.
Oh.
Knowing the rules is fine, but that can be flexible.
Doing enough preparation where you're comfortable, but also being willing to let it go based on what the players are feeling and just listening to them.
If you're not listening to your players, you're not really collaborating and creating something special.
[snores] [Matt] I'll say that. Travis! God.
Alright. The first- It's the hair. It's the hair.
You gotta have amazing hair to be a good GM.
10 Years of this.
Where does Matt Mercer get his minis? Miniature Market's a great website that you can go to.
There's Troll & Toad, which is fantastic.
You do like the train mini place too? Like the little hobby minis.
Oh yeah.
I get a lot of cool like miniature train stuff.
Train stores are great.
How does Matt Mercer deal with these people? Come up, come up with names. Um.
[Cast Laughs] He just chooses a body part and changes one letter.
[Cast Laughs] Enus Mangina.
There you have it folks.
Say them out loud multiple times before you say it to your players 'cause they'll make you suffer for years to come if you don't.
Matthew Mercer...
Vest! Vest.
That's it.
I have a few. They flow nice.
I call them my, my modern mage look 'cause it just has kind of a little bit of a weird different glare and you can get them, you get them online pretty, pretty cheap.
Anyway.
Oh, I instantly got sweaty.
Oh yeah.
God am I nervous? How did Marisha Ray and Matt Mercer meet? [Cast aws] A sketch comedy show that was supposed to be a nerdy Saturday Night Live.
For the internet.
For the internet.
And we had one writer's room meeting and then that's where that show ended.
[Matt] Yeah.
Nothing came of that as many shows in Los Angeles.
Now one thing came from that.
The only thing that came from that is me and him.
How did Matt Mercer propose to Marisha Ray? [Sam] Oh boy.
I love all your, all your questions...
Are about Matt, yeah. This is, oh boy.
This is, I'm just failing, failing the Bechdel test.
He built a whole ass escape room that was very like Lovecraftian Call of Cthulhu-y themed and there were a bunch of cultists in robes.
And Travis Willingham was a tentacle monster that I had to stab in the heart with a glowing dagger.
And no one died. But it was close.
It was close.
It was close.
There was supposed to be a blade switch that happened from a real sharp pointy thing to one that was not so much.
[Marisha] Yeah.
And somebody ended up shouting with like...
Wrong knife.
Wrong knife.
I was in a silicon like mask and I heard wrong knife.
And I was like, what? What is Marisha Ray's...
[Sam] Think of Matt Mercer.
What is Marisha Ray's new character? I'm assuming they mean in campaign three sorcerer-warlock multi-class named Laudna.
Just a little joyful undead kind of manic pixie dream girl.
Is Marisha Ray vegan? That's a top search.
Do I give off vegan vibes? Well, you do have red hair.
No, she's been publicly talking about Taco Bell for the entire time I've known her.
Taco Bell's vegan.
Uh, no, I am not vegan.
And yes, I will be reevaluating what vibe I put out that, that that is a top asked question.
Marisha Ray Creator Clash.
Oh, oh yeah.
I fought in Creator Clash this year 2023, which is like a big internet creator boxing event for charity.
I fought Haley Sharpe and lost, but I went all five rounds, so it was great.
Boxing's awesome.
Don't throw it over there.
Hey, that was a good throw.
Who does Sam Riegel...
[Travis] Work for.
Who does Sam Riegel voice? You grew up watching me play Donatello in the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles 20 years ago.
Shhh. Oh no. You don't ever say the time.
[Crosstalk] Why did you say that? I also play Phoenix Wright from time to time.
That's his name, right? Yeah.
Yes.
I had a panic that it was some something else.
No, uh, Phoenix Wright Ace Attorney from time to time. I've done other stuff too.
I've played Spider-Man, Scanlon Shorthalt on the legend Vox Machina.
Teddie.
Oh yeah, Teddie in Persona.
That's a cute one.
What did Sam Riegel win an Emmy for? Oh. Well, I'm very talented, so.
[Travis] Oh god.
So it could have been for a lot of things.
Yeah, the writing, the acting, the directing.
But what was it for? Just to torment us with.
I won for a great show for Prime video called Danger & Eggs.
I was the voice director of a show and I won for best directing.
Where does Sam Riegel get his shirts? Oh.
Speaking of shirts.
I make these shirts.
I typically order them from really cheap places and they're really, really bad.
They fall apart.
And they smell like vinegar usually.
They peel.
How often do you get a rash from them? Daily.
Are Sam Riegel and Liam O'Brien dating? [Cast aws] For many, many years and we've never been happier.
No. We are both married to women currently.
If we were both single, you know, who knows.
Who knows.
But for now...
Different pathway.
We are just in love as friends.
Why did Sam Riegel wear that damn shirt...
Leave Critical Role? What? What? I have sent announcement.
Is this how you tell us? [Cast Laughs] I got cast on Abott Elementary and I'm out. Sorry guys.
One of my characters left the group during campaign one, but I would never leave Critical Role until forced out, which might happen any day.
Taliesin Jaffe, how to pronounce Taliesin Jaffe.
Oh shit I just blew the answer.
[Cast Laughs] What are some of the good mispronunciations? [Sam] Yeah, that's.
Oh, Taliesin has been fun.
Taliesin although that is actually like the Welsh pronunciation.
I believe it, it means like radiant brow, which is also shiny forehead which is why I have to constantly.
Radiant brow.
Yes.
I'm gonna get corrected on that.
[Marisha] The Welsh are speaking some truth.
[Sam] What happened to Taliesin Jaffe? How long do you have? That's an evergreen question.
How much tape we got? I've asked my parents several times what happened? Uh, yeah, uh, God. Boarding school, bad clothing decisions, very iffy hair dye.
I mean, a lot of things.
This question has so many layers.
Like, yeah.
Where is Taliesin Jaffe, I'm assuming from.
Born and raised in Los Angeles.
Venice Beach, moved all the way to Santa Monica, Van Nuys.
I think I've lived in almost every neighborhood in LA.
We kind of moved around and yeah, that's...
Have you lived out of state? A couple times. A little over a year in Tokyo, which was great.
I did a couple years in Colorado and then I did a year in Texas where I met the two of you.
Was like wow, there are talented voice actors in Texas.
[Sam] Taliesin Jaffe Critical Role characters.
Well, there's Percy de Rolo who you can watch in the Legend of Vox Machina.
Then you get all the, all the deets there.
Mollymauk Tealeaf who makes people cry.
There's Caduceus who is just aw.
Who makes people smile.
Yeah, he's just lovely.
And also vegan. So we have that, yeah.
Makes dead people tea.
And now we have Ashton Greymoore who's just randomly, he's angry about everything and has a very big hammer.
Chucking.
Chucking's gotten weaker. I'm just saying.
How...
[Marisha] Moist? Tall is Liam O'Brien Critical Role.
Hi, I'm Liam O'Brien, Critical Role, and I'm five foot 11 and a half.
I'm just under you.
It helps when I wanna look up into his eyes.
[Cast aws] Aw, that's so sweet.
How did Sam Riegel...
[Cast Laughs] Bechdel test! And Liam O'Brien meet? Oh boy. Well, sat down at a, on a panel for a convention.
Five minutes into it we were making each other laugh and I said, and he told me he was coming to LA.
I had moved to LA a year prior and I just said, Hey, we should be best friends.
[Travis] Are Liam O'Brien.
[Taliesin] Sam Riegel married? [Travis] And Laura Bailey related? Twinsies.
Yes, for sure.
Yeah.
Oh, that's it.
We're fam. We're all family.
Yeah.
Y'all got big sibling energy.
Does Liam O'Brien speak German? [Speaks foreign language] No, I don't.
I remember bits and pieces from studying German in high school.
I did German exchange program when I was in high school.
Oh, nice.
I'm gonna give you the world's largest paper cut.
Oh God.
Does Laura Booley have a kid? I do have a kid.
Yay kid.
You, you all know the kid.
His name's Ronan. He is the best kid.
Laura Bailey smells like farts, right? Awards.
List them.
I won the BAFTA. That was for Last of Us Part Two.
And then I won a Video Game Award for Last of Us Part Two as well.
Laura Bailey dice bag of holding.
We talked about this before. I like dice.
What's your favorite? Do you have a favorite die, dice? Do I have a favorite dice? Oh, I have a set of gudetama dice that I am...
Those are so cute.
Pretty cute. Oh my God.
Okay. Okay.
[Laura] Star pod dice. They're so great.
Oh, Laura Bailey Liam O'Brien tattoo.
We need a matching tattoo.
I was just thinking about this.
I wanna get a feather tattoo with you.
All right, let's get a tattoo. We have tattoos.
We got tattoos like as a group.
Laura, Matt and I have identical.
Oh, and Marisha.
And Marisha.
We all got the square one that accidentally looks like a Gmail symbol.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Travis and I made but made better decisions there.
We did. Sam too, Sam got the circle.
The literal first thing someone said when we walked out with the tattoo. Oh, you like Gmail? God dammit.
The entire crew is laughing.
Is Laura Bailey in The Last of Us? Yes. I am in The Last of Us.
What about the show? I am.
So I did like a little easter egg in the actual series.
Neil asked if I would go and be one of the nurses in the scene in the final scene because I played one of the nurses in the game along with Liam O'Brien.
[Crosstalk] Laura Bailey eyebrow wiggle.
It's how she got me folks.
Beautiful.
Oh no.
I'm sorry.
We're gonna ruin your whole set.
Did Travis Willingham play football? I did. I played in high school for a few years.
I walked on at TCU, got hit by people that were finally my size and I was like, I don't like this very much. I'm gonna go act instead.
Is Travis Willingham allergic to cats? You guys, I'm so allergic to cats.
If you showed me a picture on your phone, I'd start having a reaction.
I can walk into a house and if there are cats present but not visible, I will know within half a minute. No problem.
Does Travis Willingham do woodworking? [Cast Laughs] I was in the, the, Webelos like the Boy Scouts.
[Liam] Sure, sure.
For I don't know, one year.
And in the back of the catalog, they always had like the cool like go-kart kit or the hovercraft and they had like a Swiss army knife and I was like, I wanna take up whittling.
And so I got a piece of wood and I cut myself on the first time.
I was like, I'm done whittling.
That was my woodworking.
Did Travis Willingham make the airship? I did! It's like little balsa wood with laser cutouts and stuff.
And it takes a minute.
It took a long time.
It didn't take as much as your stupid horse.
That totally works.
Yeah. I made the little ship and Robbie totally left it at the set. Yeah.
No he did not.
No, he kept it.
He gave it away to a kid in game though.
He did.
Yeah, and it was so cute.
It was super sweet.
Does Travis Willingham speak Japanese? Hai. No, basic stuff. Yes. No. I'm sorry.
[Speaks Foreign Language] Another beer, please.
If you dub enough anime, you absorb some of it a little bit.
Or drink in Japan.
Yeah.
How does Matthew Mercer...
Organize his notes? Microsoft Word and printouts, like people, people swear by the laptop and that's probably a much smarter way. But I'm, I'm a very tactile person.
I need to have printed sheets so I can look like a complete imbecile trying to figure out where I put the right thing in the order.
You find the, the like character so quickly though.
If we ask you questions about something, you're like, oh.
And then, you know.
I lay 'em out in the back there. So I have like, I have like city information over here.
I have like regional information. I have like, you know, all my notes for the actual session in the back of the, the screen.
And then I have other ancillary things nearby and then my phone if I absolutely need something that I don't have. So that's how I organize.
Is Matthew Mercer in Zelda? Oh boy.
I am, I am.
I'm very honored to voice Ganondorf in the Tears of the Kingdom that just came out.
Does Matthew Mercer write his own campaigns? I do. It would be so much easier if I didn't.
It's, it's the thing I love.
It's the thing I've always loved since high school.
And so I make this for my friends.
I make this for us to enjoy together. And it's, it's, it's my hobby time. I get to sit and, and create stories and then have them destroy them in wonderfully complicated ways.
When did Matt Mercer start playing TTRPGs? It would've been 96 or 97. It was, it was my, my, my very beginning of my high school. I found out later on my grandma played it on my dad's side.
Really? Yeah.
That's so cool.
My granny, she played them for a bit back, back when they first came out.
Is Matthew Mercer leaving Critical Role? No.
Are you insane? This is the part in the documentary where it switches to black and white.
Are you guys switching out together? Yeah. We both booked rolls on Abbott Elementary.
[Cast Laughs] Is Marisha Ray sing? Can Marisha Ray sing? Can Marisha Ray sing? This is not my forte.
Objection. You're good. You just don't have confidence.
I don't have confidence in my singing.
I have to have like at least two cocktails before we sing at karaoke.
And when she does, she does a mean rendition of Crazy Little Thing Called Love.
Coming for you, Freddy Mercury.
Marisha Ray anime voices.
Oh boy.
Oh shit, Laura Arseid in... I don't know.
What's the name of that thing? 8 pointed object.
She's gone away. She's gone somewhere else.
I'm in some, I'm in some animes.
Awesome.
I'm in some anime.
Marisha Ray tattoo meaning.
On, hang on.
I can blast through this really quick.
Hang on. Okay.
Okay. Okay.
This was my first tattoo. Kind of a Burning man tattoo.
It means the line is long, but it is not infinite.
This is also a kind of a Burning man tattoo.
This was our camp art car called Sensitron.
This is a D&D tattoo.
These are the death saving throw dots.
Meaningful and practical.
This is 'cause I love Gmail.
This is a Hollywood Boulevard star because for three years I was a street character on Hollywood Boulevard to make ends meet when I first moved to Los Angeles.
And then this is my lemonade stand that I had growing up.
And then my most recent one, I just got this is the [Laura] Oh my gosh.
Yeah. The Ahsari symbol.
[Laura] I haven't seen that yet.
It looks beautiful.
Well, thank you guys.
Marisha Ray flex.
[Cast Says Bam] And finally, Marish Ray dog.
Easy.
Matt and I have a wonderful Corgi named Omar.
He's the best.
I love him so much.
Yay.
Was Sam Riegel on Broadway? Oh. Boy. I love this show.
I just get to talk about myself. I was on Broadway.
Yes. I did the national tour of Les Miserables and then I did the Broadway production of the Sound of Music and I was very good.
That was right before, that was right before the Junior Rodeo.
Yes.
Yes. Before the Junior rodeo.
I also did some off-Broadway productions.
I was in I Can Get It For You Wholesale.
Oh boy.
It didn't ask about Off-Broadway.
I know, but I want to go down my whole resume.
I did some dinner theater.
Does Sam Riegel sing? I do sing more than these folks probably prefer.
I was in an acapella group.
Even before the acapella group in college, in high school I was in a do-op group.
I sang fifties and sixties.
Wow.
Wasn't there a boys band? I was also in a boy band called City Boyz.
City Boyz With a Z.
Oh no, I didn't know that.
Is there an album? I think we recorded an EP or a single, Is that on cassette tape? It probably is.
Are you guys like posted up in front of a brick wall? For sure. We wore a Z. Cavariccis.
We had earrings because we were bad.
Hey girl.
Oh my God.
And we danced and we sang at Paramus Park Shopping Mall in New Jersey.
Oh, I did not know this.
Yeah. Sam Riegel ASMR.
No.
Hi.
Hi, Wired. It's me, Sam Riegel.
I'm doing some ASMR for you. Oh yeah.
[Mouth noises] Sam Riegel... Burt Reynolds.
It's true.
We have never seen them both in the same room before.
To clarify, in campaign one, my character Scanlon Shorthalt, would go in disguise frequently.
And I think the first time this happened in our home game, I was like, I am, my name is Burt Reynolds.
And you, you held your finger up as a mustache.
But I had such a high persuasion stat that that worked.
Yep.
Sam Riegel Dungeons and Dragons movie.
Ooh.
There's some speculation that the D&D movie references my character Fresh Cut Grass because they say those words three or four times during the movie.
I, not confirmed or denied. I'm gonna say that yes it's...
[Cast Laughs] Is Taliesin Jaffe his real name? Yes. As far as I know. Yes.
It is my real name.
Beelzebub.
[Cast Laughs] As much as I can.
Asmodeus.
I guess the real one then like I lose my power on that.
Yeah, I've tried to to summon you using Taliesin and it didn't work.
[Travis Does Demon Noise] That was really good, Travis.
[Sam] Taliesin Jaffe goth.
[Travis] Goth. Yes.
Yes, Jim Henson died and I wore black to school and kind of never stopped.
Oh wow.
So that was kind of...
That's great.
Yeah. That was more or less kind of the beginning of that.
And then eventually I discovered eyeliner and music.
It was pretty good.
[Sam] Next one, Taliesin Jaffe immortal joke.
Well. It's not a joke.
It's not a joke.
It's not a joke.
Someone noticed they couldn't find a birth certificate on, on record and one thing led to another.
They found some ancient tablets at a pretty good likeness.
They just assume I've been everywhere now it's like 70% true.
Survivor of Pompei.
Could've been better Taliesin Jaffe... graduated.
[Laura] Grandfather.
Grandfather. Oh, thank you.
Are you a grandfather? That's a lot of questions I don't know if I can answer.
As far as I know, no.
My grandfather was a screenwriter and a playwright.
A lot of my family has worked in the industry for actually like four generations.
[Sam] It looks like you're kissing yourself.
Yeah, right there I really, I'm just gonna keep moving myself.
But yeah, he, he wrote the film adaptation of Bus Stop.
He wrote The Seven Year Itch.
He wrote a whole bunch of films.
He did the adaptation of the Manchurian Candidate, which is a lot of fun.
And a movie that called Lord Love a Duck.
Which no one's seen, but you should.
It's a lot of fun.
[Sam] Taliesin Jaffe... Hair.
I do have hair.
Why? I've been dyeing my hair since high school and it's not always been this. It's been, I've done like the long hair.
I've the Bowie.
It used to take bleach blonde.
It was bleach blonde. It was jet black.
I've done kind of everything and I, I've kind of settled into the Mohawk for the last few years.
It's kind of nice.
[Laura] I like it.
Liam O'Brien eyebrows.
[Cast Laughs And Crosstalk] They're painted on.
I pencil them in every day.
There's a lot of people on the internet.
Maybe it's, it's how much I furrow my, maybe.
[All] Carmen San Diego.
I am Carmen San Diego. No, I play Professor Maelstrom in the recent reboot of the Carmen San Diego animated series is really good.
[Travis] Liam O'Brien... Bane Oh. Does anyone have a coffee cup for me to speak into? Let's read the next question.
Liam O'Brien, you were born in blah blah blah.
Gollum! Pull out all the tricks! The last three are characters that you're not.
This really, that does not work.
It's still three characters and eyebrows.
When did Critical Role...
Eyebrows.
Eyebrows.
[Cast Laughs] When did Critical Role start? Technically, the home game was 10 years ago.
Technically, was it 10? Wow.
Yeah.
Or was it 11? 2000... 12? Pin this down to a single moment so many times and fail.
'cause it's so many. I think.
I think it's December of 2012 when we started.
Right.
Whoa.
Why is Critical Role so popular? I think it's our looks. I think it's.
I think it's our eyebrows.
Yeah. We're just so handsome.
How much of Critical Role...
[Marisha] Is scripted? I thought that was gonna happen.
Knew it.
Zero One hundo.
None of it.
Well, everything, everything before the actual episode starts, some of that's like planned.
Like we have advertisers, sponsorship leads.
Sure.
But after that, after the, the intro starts, it's just Matt making it up as he goes.
I have no idea what you guys are gonna do.
That's, that's the joy of it is like keeping it secret and letting you guys experience it in the moment.
How do Critical Role know each other? We were all acquaintances.
Yeah.
Some of us were closer than others.
Like I think I met Marisha for the second time at that very first game.
I didn't know Ash.
The first time I met Ashley was when she came over to play.
Same actually.
And I think a lot of us had just kinda met through voiceover stuff.
Actually, go back to to previous question.
I think that's why it is popular 'cause we're just like doing us.
Like we weren't cast or put together. We're just friends.
And I think when you watch, you can see us enjoying it, but also fucking it up the entire time as well.
And there's just like a certain draw to that.
So I think people get to feel like they're hanging with us.
Will Critical Roll Campaign Two be animated? Oh shit! The answer's actually yes.
It will! Yeah.
Mighty Nein is coming to...
It's been green lit for Prime Video.
What what! It is baking in the oven right now.
What is Critical Role about? Well, we should have done it started with that one.
[Cast Laughs] Critical Role is about a bunch of nerdy ass voice actors that became really good friends by rolling dice and making things up and making sure they laugh and cry.
Killed it.
Nailed it.
Who sings Critical Role Intro? Which one? Oh yeah, there's several.
The current one is everybody. Everybody.
Everybody sings in the current intro.
The last one was Laura and Ashley.
That was with some backups from the boys.
Yeah and the one before that was just music.
Who owns critical role? [All] We do.
Creator owned, y'all.
They bought me out.
That's why he's leaving.
Is Critical Role making their own system.
We've announced we are the Illuminated World system.
Yeah. Yeah.
And we announced Daggerheart.
We're making two, making two of our own systems.
We have a game publishing wing called Darrington Press.
We made a game called Till the Last Gasp, which is like a roleplaying dueling game.
And Queen by Midnight.
Queen by Midnight is coming out All of these, by the way, are available at our Critical Role show store shop dot crit roll.com.
What Critical Role cast member are you? Who's the bad boy? I think it's Marisha Ray.
Yeah. That's probably true.
Am I the silly one? You're the prom queen.
The prom queen.
[Laura] What? Not the class clown.
Class clown.
It depends on the day.
You're in the makeup chair longer than most of us.
That's true. That's true. It's valid.
Taliesin's goth kid.
Yeah. Yeah.
Travis is the jock.
Liam's the theater kid.
Theater kid, sure.
I'm the nerd.
There's no argument there.
Matt's the nerd.
I'm the nerd.
Ashley's the art kid.
And you're the pretty one.
[Producer] Is this what you expected? Not the eyebrows.
Eyebrows, yeah.
Eyebrows gonna haunt me.
Many of them are gonna be gifts that will continue to give from years to come.
So thank you Google.
Definitely some expected ones.
Definitely ones that will send us into an existential crisis on a later day.
What happened to Taliesin Jaffe? I'll be thinking about that all night.
Melissa McCarthy & Kristen Bell Answer The Web’s Most Searched Questions NASA Astronauts Answer The Web’s Most Searched Questions Common Answers The Web’s Most Searched Questions Ice Cube Answers The Web’s Most Searched Questions Eve Answers The Web’s Most Searched Questions Seth Rogen & Rose Byrne Answer The Web’s Most Searched Questions The Cast of Warcraft Answer The Web's Most Searched Questions Slow Mo Guys, MatPat, AsapSCIENCE, and Burnie Burns Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Dana Carvey Answers the Web’s Most Searched Questions Mr. Robot's Carly Chaikin Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Cara Delevingne Answers the Web’s Most Searched Questions Chelsea Handler Answers the Web’s Most Searched Questions Blindspot's Jaimie Alexander Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Jennifer Aniston & Jason Bateman Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Kate McKinnon & Vanessa Bayer Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions The Cast of "Rogue One" Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Tracy Morgan Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions The Cast of 'Sesame Street' Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Samuel L. Jackson Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Jennifer Lawrence & Chris Pratt Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Reggie Watts Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Ryan Reynolds & Jake Gyllenhaal Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Chris Evans Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Morgan Freeman, Michael Caine, and Alan Arkin Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Anne Hathaway & Jason Sudeikis Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Salma Hayek & Eugenio Derbez Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Amy Schumer & Goldie Hawn Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Steve Carell & Kristen Wiig Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Will Ferrell & Amy Poehler Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Al Gore Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions on Climate Change Matthew McConaughey & Idris Elba Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Dave Franco, Kumail Nanjiani and Fred Armisen Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Tom Cruise & Doug Liman Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Josh Brolin & Taylor Kitsch Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Matt Damon & Julianne Moore Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Nick Jonas Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Gaten Matarazzo and Joe Keery Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions The Last Jedi Cast Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions John Cena Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Owen Wilson & Ed Helms Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Will Smith & Joel Edgerton Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Black Panther Cast Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Google Search Team Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Bruce Willis Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Charlize Theron & David Oyelowo Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions This Is Us Cast Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Alicia Vikander Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Jennifer Garner Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Charlie Day Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Jeff Goldblum Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Taraji P. Henson & Tyler Perry Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions John Krasinski Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Ansel Elgort & Suki Waterhouse Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Terry Crews Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Shawn Mendes Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Solo Cast Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Jodie Foster Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Best of Autocomplete: The Cast of Black Panther, Stranger Things and More Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Robert Pattinson & Mia Wasikowska Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Alison Brie & Marc Maron Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions 'Sorry to Bother You' Cast Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions 'Ant-Man and the Wasp' Cast Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Will Arnett Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Mila Kunis & Justin Theroux Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Ewan McGregor & Hayley Atwell Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Liza Koshy Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions 'Dog Days' Cast Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Ken Jeong Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Mark Wahlberg, Ronda Rousey and Lauren Cohan Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions John Cho Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Rami Malek & Charlie Hunnam Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Anna Kendrick & Blake Lively Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Paul McCartney Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Keegan-Michael Key & Olivia Munn Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Elizabeth Olsen Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Kevin Hart & Tiffany Haddish Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Rhett & Link Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Riverdale Cast Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Bella Thorne Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions John Mulaney & Nick Kroll Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Aubrey Plaza & Craig Robinson Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions The Try Guys Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Keira Knightley & Mackenzie Foy Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Julia Roberts & Dermot Mulroney Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Emily Ratajkowski & Aaron Paul Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Sarah Silverman & John C. Reilly Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Margot Robbie & Saoirse Ronan Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Natalie Portman & Jude Law Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Lin-Manuel Miranda Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Best WIRED Autocomplete Moments of 2018 Feat. Liza Koshy, David Dobrik, The Try Guys & More Ninja Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Zedd Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Bryce Dallas Howard Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions James McAvoy & Sarah Paulson Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Jane Fonda & Lily Tomlin Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Daniel Radcliffe Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Priyanka Chopra, Rebel Wilson & Adam Devine Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions David Dobrik Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Brie Larson Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Freddie Highmore Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Oscar Isaac & Pedro Pascal Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Markiplier Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Colin Farrell & Danny DeVito Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Queer Eye Cast Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Nikolaj Coster-Waldau Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Gina Rodriguez Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Sean Bean Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Anthony Mackie Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Lily Collins & Nicholas Hoult Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Wu-Tang Clan Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Wanda Sykes Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Charles Melton Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Jessica Alba & Gabrielle Union Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Jon Hamm & David Tennant Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Thomas Middleditch & O'Shea Jackson Jr. Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Sophie Turner & Jessica Chastain Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Mindy Kaling & Emma Thompson Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Smosh Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Tom Holland, Zendaya & Jacob Batalon Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Millie Bobby Brown, Finn Wolfhard & Noah Schnapp Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Winona Ryder & David Harbour Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Eric Andre Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Machine Gun Kelly Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Charlie Puth Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Novak Djokovic Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Anderson Cooper Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Jim Gaffigan Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Liam Payne Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Lilly Singh Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Gwen Stefani Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Dove Cameron Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Kevin Smith Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Niall Horan Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Lele Pons Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Hailee Steinfeld Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Louis Tomlinson Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Kiernan Shipka & Isabela Merced Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Kristen Stewart, Naomi Scott, and Ella Balinska Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Jack Black & Awkwafina Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions KJ Apa Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions The Best of Autocomplete 2019: Funniest Moments from Stranger Things, Spider-Man and More Billy Eichner & Cobie Smulders Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Frozen 2 Cast Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Jada Pinkett Smith Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Zach Galifianakis & Zoe Saldana Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Elijah Wood Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Noah Centineo & Lana Condor Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Lucy Hale Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Patrick Stewart Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Norman Reedus Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Astronaut Chris Hadfield Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Nick Offerman Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Binging with Babish Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Jamie Dornan & Shailene Woodley Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Ellie Kemper Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Joe Biden Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Ricky Gervais Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Alicia Keys Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Tony Hawk Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Russell Crowe Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Kevin Bacon Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Joey King & Joel Courtney Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Kermit & Miss Piggy Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Alessia Cara Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Jamie Foxx & Joseph Gordon-Levitt Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Mayim Bialik Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Desus & Mero Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Dolly Parton Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Ruby Rose Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Sonequa Martin-Green Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Chelsea Handler Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions John C. Reilly & Tim Heidecker Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Joel McHale Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Questlove Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Dua Lipa Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Zara Larsson Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Bob Odenkirk and RZA Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions SpongeBob's Tom Kenny & Bill Fagerbakke Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Jackson Wang Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Eric Andre Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions...Again LILHUDDY Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Polo G Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Hank Azaria Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Zack Snyder Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions TWICE Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions MONSTA X Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Siri, Alexa and Google Home Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Rich Brian and NIKI Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions B.I Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Never Have I Ever Cast Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions M. Night Shyamalan Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Henry Golding Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions BTS Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Emily Blunt & Dwayne Johnson Answer The Web's Most Searched Questions Jennifer Hudson Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Outer Banks Cast Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Rita Ora Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Dove Cameron Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions...Again Daniel Radcliffe Answers MORE of the Web's Most Searched Questions Ben Platt & Amandla Stenberg Answer The Web's Most Searched Questions Tom Hardy & Andy Serkis Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions On My Block Cast Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Daniel Craig & Lashana Lynch Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions William Shatner Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Madison Beer Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Marshmello Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Amanda Seyfried & Finn Wittrock Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Nina Dobrev Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Kit Harington Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Kristen Bell & Kirby Howell-Baptiste Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Dominic Monaghan & Billy Boyd Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Cowboy Bebop Cast Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions YouTube Search Team Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Jack Whitehall Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Andrew Garfield Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Sabrina Carpenter Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Simu Liu Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Tom Holland, Zendaya & Jacob Batalon Answer MORE of the Web's Most Searched Questions Eric Nam Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Ben Affleck & Lily Rabe Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions ATEEZ Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Seth Rogen Answers The Web’s Most Searched Questions Owen Wilson Answers The Web’s Most Searched Questions David Byrne Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Johnny Knoxville Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Channing Tatum & Sandra Bullock Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Karen Gillan Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Leslie Mann & Judd Apatow Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Cole Sprouse Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Nicolas Cage Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions TommyInnit Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Drew Gooden Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Seth MacFarlane Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Sadie Sink, Noah Schnapp & Gaten Matarazzo Answer the Web’s Most Searched Questions Taika Waititi Answers the Web’s Most Searched Questions Maisie Williams Answers the Web’s Most Searched Questions Jacksepticeye Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Chris Hemsworth Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Guinness World Records Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions The Russo Brothers Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Keke Palmer Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Marques Brownlee Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Neil Patrick Harris Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Jennifer Lopez & Leah Remini Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Dakota Johnson & Jeff Bridges Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions High School Musical: The Musical: The Series Cast Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Kevin Hart & Mark Wahlberg Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Danny DeVito Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Lili Reinhart Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions John Boyega Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Sofía Vergara & Simon Cowell Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Steve-O Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Stray Kids Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Charli & Dixie D'Amelio Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions NCT 127 Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Hasan Minhaj Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Cobra Kai's Ralph Macchio Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Mrwhosetheboss Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Chloë Grace Moretz Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Millie Bobby Brown Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Jenna Ortega Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Veritasium's Derek Muller Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Jason Momoa Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions LaurDIY Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Nigel Ng & Uncle Roger Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Finn Wolfhard & Guillermo del Toro Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Ludwig Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions John Krasinski & Michael Kelly Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions ITZY Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Danny Gonzalez Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Ashton Kutcher Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Paul Rudd & Jonathan Majors Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Outer Banks Cast Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Again Kelly Slater Answers Surfing Questions From Twitter KAROL G Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Penn Badgley Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Chris Pine, Hugh Grant & Michelle Rodriguez Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Willem Dafoe Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions KSI Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Bob Odenkirk Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Jisoo Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Ali Wong & Steven Yeun Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Chris Evans & Ana de Armas Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Airrack Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions ChatGPT Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions James & Sean Gunn Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Mark Hamill Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Shameik Moore, Issa Rae & Hailee Steinfeld Answer The Web's Most Searched Questions Tom Segura Answers The Web's Most Searched Questions Robert Downey Jr. & Christopher Nolan Answer The Web's Most Searched Questions Bear Grylls Answers The Web's Most Searched Questions Smosh Answer The Web's Most Searched Questions Ice Cube Answers The Web's Most Searched Questions Stephen Curry Answers The Web's Most Searched Questions 'Heart of Stone' Cast Answers The Web's Most Searched Questions 'Critical Role' Cast Answers The Web's Most Searched Questions Harry Mack Freestyles The Web's Most Searched Questions Olivia Rodrigo Answers The Web's Most Searched Questions Pokimane Answers The Web's Most Searched Questions MoistCr1TiKaL Answers The Web's Most Searched Questions Dream Answers The Web's Most Searched Questions Fanum Answers The Web's Most Searched Questions Casey Neistat Answers The Web's Most Searched Questions | WIRED Måneskin Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
