Open Navigation Menu To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revisit this article, select My Account, then View saved stories Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Robert Downey Jr. & Christopher Nolan Answer The Web's Most Searched Questions About Released on 07/20/2023 Hi, I'm Robert Downey Jr.
And I'm Christopher Nolan, and this is the Wired Autocomplete Interview.
[Robert clicking his tongue] [epic music] I probably should have taken my blood pressure medication.
[Christopher laughing] [epic music] Does Robert Downey Jr have tattoos? I have six.
That's the sixth one, and that was the Avengers cast tattoo.
That happened the evening of the premiere for Infinity War.
Scarlet got it first, then Chris Evans got it, then I got it, then Jeremy Renner got it, then Chris Hemsworth got it, even though he was a little tentative about it and seemed to overreact to the pain, and then Mark Ruffalo said, I'm not getting that tattoo.
I don't wanna be part of your Hollywood Inside game, [Christopher scoffing] to which I applauded him.
Fuck you, Mark.
Does Robert Downey Jr [sticker peeling] do his own stunts? In a year where the level and magnitude of stunts may be at an all time high, I am committing to do less stunts every year for the rest of my career, [Christopher scoffing] but yes.
Does Robert Downey Jr [sticker peeling] like ACDC? Come on! Of course! Back in Black from the first Iron Man.
[Christopher] Oh.
♪ Thunder ♪ [Robert making comical guitar strumming noises] There's your sound bite buddy.
[Christopher] Does Robert Downey Jr like [sticker peeling] Gwyneth Paltrow? I do not like Gwyneth Paltrow.
[Christopher laughing] I absolutely adore her like a sister, like a sister that you may have made out with a few times [Christopher laughing] while still liking her.
[Christopher laughing] That's for you.
Okay, I'd like to actually try this inverted just to make this even more impossible.
There we go! This is gonna work like a fuckin' treat! Why, Christopher Nolan? Now, that in and of itself is just a question if you think about it.
Why Christopher Nolan doesn't use CGI.
I find CGI, however versatile it is, but it always tends to feel a little safe to me.
I think if you want something to have a bit of bite, you've got the imagery to a better threat, even if it's a miniature, even if it's something very fake, but something real on camera, I think it gives you a better result.
[Robert] Why does Christopher Nolan- [Christopher] We're in the why's.
[Robert] Shoot on film? I shoot on film because it's the highest quality imaging format ever devised, particularly IMAX film, large-format film, but film shows you the world kind of the way your eye sees it.
Is it ridiculous for me to give a serious answer while you are doing that? But that's why I shoot film. Give the people, give the people what they want.
Where does Christopher Nolan, oh, this one's important.
I better sit up.
[Christopher laughing] [Robert grunting] Where does Christopher Nolan get his ideas? All over the place.
Different on every film.
Oppenheimer, somebody had been interested in a long time, didn't know that much about the specifics of his story, then came to the book American Prometheus and that absolutely got me hooked.
So in the case of Oppenheimer, the idea, I mean, gosh, I trace it right back to, like, you know, as a kid in the eighties and we all thought we were gonna die in nuclear Armageddon.
Absolutely. Me too.
You remember Sting had that song, Russians? Russians.
Oppenheimer's Deadly Toys.
Yes, How can I save my little boy- Little boy.
From Oppenheimer's deadly toy? There is no monopoly of common sense- [Both] On either side of the political fence.
We share the same- Biology, regardless of of ideology.
What might just save us, me and you, is if- Russians.
Where is Christopher Nolan [both laughing] from? Where am I from? Born in London, but I'm half American, half English.
My mother's American.
I've grown up kind of both sides of the Atlantic, but originally from England.
How come your brother doesn't have your accent? He has his own accent.
Eventually- Yeah, I know that's right.
I know that he speaks the way he speaks, but he sounds like he's from America and you don't.
Yes, but that's the American thing where you say, How come you have an accent and he doesn't, to which you say, Well, he does have an accent.
It's an American accent.
You're right.
Just 'cause of when my parents were living in different countries, so he went to school in America, I went to school in England, and so you can't get fixed with that accent.
[cardboard shuffling] Sorry.
No crew members were harmed- Thank you.
In the execution of this dalliance.
How did Robert Downey Jr [sticker peeling] become Iron Man? It was God's will.
That's it? Really? Well, I had a pretty good screen test, but I'll really tell you what happened is, the same weekend I did a movie called Kiss Kiss Bang Bang.
[Christopher] Uh-huh.
John Favreau did a movie called Zathura.
They both tanked, and we were both really hungry to try to do something that would make an impact, and when Iron Man came out, everyone that knew me and loved me said, This will do until 'The Dark Knight' comes out, [Christopher laughing] and here we are now.
[Christopher] What are Robert Downey Jr hobbies? I have one hobby in that I take classic cars and I do eco restomods on them, thus take old cars and then make them more energy efficient and climate-friendly.
Any follow-up questions to that? No, 'cause it's getting dangerously close to a plug for your TV show- Alright, you're right.
And we're here doing Oppenheimer.
Am I limited to three or four shameless plugs? Yeah. [Christopher laughing] Who does Robert Downey Jr play in Oppenheimer.
Lewis Lichtenstein Strauss, he was the head of the Atomic Energy Commission.
He was a very conservative, patriotic American.
He and Oppenheimer were verging on Nemesis.
No spoilers. No spoilers.
None at all.
Yeah, complicated man.
He was a complicated guy.
Unlike me, as you can see. Exactly.
It takes one to play one.
[Robert laughing] What year was Robert Downey Jr on SNL? 1985, oft considered the worst season [Christopher laughing] in the history of SNL.
I got that going for me.
[Crew Member] What's one skit that sticks out? Suitcase Boy.
[Christopher laughing] No? [Crew Member] Could you tell me what that is? I don't remember that one.
Well, no, that never made it to air, [Christopher laughing] and that's the one that sticks out.
Can Robert Downey Jr play piano? Only well enough to compose at a medium to high level.
[Christopher laughing] [sticker peeling] What if Christopher Nolan directed The Avengers? Whoa. That is the Multiverse conundrum.
Having worked with you on Oppenheimer, there'd probably be a lot too much Tony Stark.
You'd be running away with the movie a little bit.
Like I didn't.
Indeed, and more, and not like in UCG, would you be prepared to get on one of those jet packs, the ones they make for real that do the- Yeah.
If Christopher Nolan had directed The Avengers, we would still be shooting it.
[both laughing] What is Christopher Nolan's best movie? The one I'm promoting.
I mean, that's how that works, right? I'm telling you, and I've seen every single film you've ever done.
Oppenheimer is the culmination of your life's work, and it is a frickin' masterpiece, brother.
Thank you.
And that is the God's honest truth.
Thank you.
And now, back to my faux sincerity, which works better.
[Christopher laughing] What makes Christopher Nolan tick? Unique.
He's supposed to answer this?! Yeah, I was gonna say. I told you, he's- I'm leaving that to you.
He already told you he's British, so you're never gonna get that answer out of him.
[Christopher laughing] There's such a mystique around you that I think sometimes people feel intimidated, and then when you actually get in proximity to you, and particularly shooting a film, it's arguably the least judgmental, most nurturing environment I could have ever imagined being in.
He's kind of like the Wizard of Oz, except I think he dresses cooler.
[Christopher laughing] That's gonna travel.
[both laughing] Moving on.
Just remember, this was someone's idea to pair us up here.
What is Christopher Nolan's California driver's license number, I'm sorry, first movie? My first movie is a film that Emma and I produced together called Following.
We shot it on black and white, 16mm film.
We were working full time.
We were a group of friends and we would shoot one day a week for about a year, and we put it together that way.
You would never know.
It seems even your first film felt so complete.
What degree does Christopher Nolan- [sticker peeling] Have? I have an English degree from UCL in London.
My gosh! Are these edible? [Crew Member] No? Okay. They're not.
Sorry.
[hands patting] Is Robert Downey Jr Tom Holland's godfather? If by godfather you mean I do light yard work for him on Thursdays and detail his car every other Saturday, then yes.
[Christopher] Is Robert Downey Jr related to Charlie Chaplin? Not that I'm aware of.
Only in spirit.
Yep.
Speaking of great directors, Attenborough, I got a complete education on cinema and enthusiasm and trust and love.
How old were you when you did that? I was 26, and you know what? He's like you, he just cries a lot more.
[Christopher laughing] Very sensitive man.
Is Robert Downey Jr going to ask Chris Nolan to cry on cue for him?! You're god darn right I am! Go in tight. This is his screen test.
[Christopher] Is Robert Downey Jr a vegan? No, I'm a vegetarian, occasional pescatarian.
If I start feeling lightheaded, I might have some shrimp, or maybe a steelhead trout.
[Christopher laughing] No scallops.
Just for the halibut, I might occasionally.
I like a bit of soul.
I don't know why that means soul.
I guess it's what goes beneath the surface.
I don't want this to end.
I mean, we're used to a bit of joviality, but this is.
This is another level.
That's for you. [Robert sighing] [Robert] How Christopher Nolan became a director.
I started making films when I was a little kid.
Borrowed my dad's super eight camera.
I was about seven years old, started making films, and I've kind of never stopped.
Seven? Seven.
Who is Christopher Nolan's cinematographer? Well, you can answer this one.
Hoyte van Hoytema.
Great Dutch director of photography and not afraid to pick up an IMAX camera and hold it on his shoulder.
[Robert] How did Christopher Nolan recreate a nuclear [sticker peeling] explosion? Explosion.
Well, we don't want to give away the tricks too much.
Didn't you CG.
Tried to come up with methods from the visual effects and special effects department that were very small, microscopic things that look huge, but then also some giant big bangs out in the desert that were pretty spectacular to live through.
And that is how you give an answer without giving an answer! Is Christopher Nolan [sticker peeling] a physicist? No, I am not a physicist.
I've always been interested in physics and I've done a lot of films that involve looking into ideas of physics.
Purely an amateur.
Don't know if I buy that.
Do you want another take? No, I'm good.
Okay.
[Robert panting] What was Robert Downey Jr's first job? My first job was working at the Indian Walk Shoe Store on Broadway and 83rd Street.
I made it about 10 shifts before I was fired for my sticky fingers.
Okay. What music does Robert Downey Jr listen to? Everything from Prokofiev to, I'm into Sleaford Mods lately, and also Indio Downey, my firstborn, got an album coming out.
Fantastic.
[Christopher] What is Robert Downey Jr personality type? You wanna take this one? No, I'm really interested to know what you're gonna say.
I usually play Type A personalities.
No, no, no. Come on, come on, come on.
You're not getting away with Type A. That's too technical.
I'm curious.
Curious.
I'm loyal. I'm easily bored.
I thought you were gonna go with easy for a minute there and I was gonna shake my head no ♪ Yeah, because I'm easy. ♪ What glasses does Robert Downey Jr [sticker peeling] wear? That was a high degree of difficulty tape pull, by the way.
Do you see how he's mastered it already? All kinds of glasses, I love all glasses, and shameless plug, I'm probably gonna start my own glasses company.
Do you wanna just go in tight on this? [Christopher laughing] Downey Design Exchange.
They'll be out in probably 6, 9, 12, 16, 18 months, depending on my personality type.
[cardboard thudding] Does Christopher Nolan storyboard? Only select sequences.
I don't storyboard much, but if there's something that people really need to take a look at, you know, use 'em as a jumping off point for departments.
I did not know that.
Does Christopher Nolan have social media? I do not.
That is a pointless question if you know anything about him, because you would think it was 1847 the way he communicates, [Christopher laughing] and this one just says Christopher Nolan.
Christopher Nolan influences.
Influences. Always like to talk about Ridley Scott.
Huge fan of his.
Stanley Kubrick, Terrance Malick, Nicholas Roeg.
I mean, there are just so many greats, too many influences to name them all.
Nicholas Roeg is a really good pull.
Christopher Nolan and Cillian Murphy.
And Cillian Murphy.
My old friend, Cillian, we worked together for 20 years, one of the great actors of his generation or any other, and we've done six films together, I think.
This is six, Oppenheimer. This is six, but this is the first time I got to use him as a leading man.
It's amazing.
Yeah, first met him, he screen tested for Batman, and I think we both kind of knew he probably wasn't right for Batman, but his test was so exciting that the studio was okay for me to cast him as the villain.
Scarecrow? Big star, Scarecrow.
I whispered it 'cause I have a problem talking about DC [Christopher laughing] characters.
I don't know if I was programmed or not, but I was in this room with a lot of flashing lights once.
Long story. Thanks, Kevin.
[Christopher laughing] Well, that's done! Look what you got! This is the most ectomorphic this man has ever been! [Christopher laughing] Well, Chris, Robert, we made it through all the boards.
I thought it was fun.
I think the time just flew by.
Flew by. I learned a bit.
I learned a bit.
Until next time.
[epic music] Melissa McCarthy & Kristen Bell Answer The Web’s Most Searched Questions NASA Astronauts Answer The Web’s Most Searched Questions Common Answers The Web’s Most Searched Questions Ice Cube Answers The Web’s Most Searched Questions Eve Answers The Web’s Most Searched Questions Seth Rogen & Rose Byrne Answer The Web’s Most Searched Questions The Cast of Warcraft Answer The Web's Most Searched Questions Slow Mo Guys, MatPat, AsapSCIENCE, and Burnie Burns Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Dana Carvey Answers the Web’s Most Searched Questions Mr. Robot's Carly Chaikin Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Cara Delevingne Answers the Web’s Most Searched Questions Chelsea Handler Answers the Web’s Most Searched Questions Blindspot's Jaimie Alexander Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Jennifer Aniston & Jason Bateman Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Kate McKinnon & Vanessa Bayer Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions The Cast of "Rogue One" Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Tracy Morgan Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions The Cast of 'Sesame Street' Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Samuel L. Jackson Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Jennifer Lawrence & Chris Pratt Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Reggie Watts Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Ryan Reynolds & Jake Gyllenhaal Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Chris Evans Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Morgan Freeman, Michael Caine, and Alan Arkin Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Anne Hathaway & Jason Sudeikis Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Salma Hayek & Eugenio Derbez Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Amy Schumer & Goldie Hawn Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Steve Carell & Kristen Wiig Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Will Ferrell & Amy Poehler Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Al Gore Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions on Climate Change Matthew McConaughey & Idris Elba Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Dave Franco, Kumail Nanjiani and Fred Armisen Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Tom Cruise & Doug Liman Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Josh Brolin & Taylor Kitsch Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Matt Damon & Julianne Moore Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Nick Jonas Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Gaten Matarazzo and Joe Keery Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions The Last Jedi Cast Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions John Cena Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Owen Wilson & Ed Helms Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Will Smith & Joel Edgerton Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Black Panther Cast Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Google Search Team Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Bruce Willis Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Charlize Theron & David Oyelowo Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions This Is Us Cast Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Alicia Vikander Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Jennifer Garner Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Charlie Day Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Jeff Goldblum Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Taraji P. Henson & Tyler Perry Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions John Krasinski Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Ansel Elgort & Suki Waterhouse Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Terry Crews Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Shawn Mendes Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Solo Cast Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Jodie Foster Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Best of Autocomplete: The Cast of Black Panther, Stranger Things and More Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Robert Pattinson & Mia Wasikowska Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Alison Brie & Marc Maron Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions 'Sorry to Bother You' Cast Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions 'Ant-Man and the Wasp' Cast Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Will Arnett Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Mila Kunis & Justin Theroux Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Ewan McGregor & Hayley Atwell Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Liza Koshy Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions 'Dog Days' Cast Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Ken Jeong Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Mark Wahlberg, Ronda Rousey and Lauren Cohan Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions John Cho Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Rami Malek & Charlie Hunnam Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Anna Kendrick & Blake Lively Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Paul McCartney Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Keegan-Michael Key & Olivia Munn Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Elizabeth Olsen Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Kevin Hart & Tiffany Haddish Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Rhett & Link Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Riverdale Cast Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Bella Thorne Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions John Mulaney & Nick Kroll Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Aubrey Plaza & Craig Robinson Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions The Try Guys Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Keira Knightley & Mackenzie Foy Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Julia Roberts & Dermot Mulroney Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Emily Ratajkowski & Aaron Paul Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Sarah Silverman & John C. Reilly Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Margot Robbie & Saoirse Ronan Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Natalie Portman & Jude Law Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Lin-Manuel Miranda Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Best WIRED Autocomplete Moments of 2018 Feat. Liza Koshy, David Dobrik, The Try Guys & More Ninja Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Zedd Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Bryce Dallas Howard Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions James McAvoy & Sarah Paulson Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Jane Fonda & Lily Tomlin Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Daniel Radcliffe Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Priyanka Chopra, Rebel Wilson & Adam Devine Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions David Dobrik Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Brie Larson Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Freddie Highmore Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Oscar Isaac & Pedro Pascal Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Markiplier Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Colin Farrell & Danny DeVito Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Queer Eye Cast Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Nikolaj Coster-Waldau Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Gina Rodriguez Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Sean Bean Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Anthony Mackie Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Lily Collins & Nicholas Hoult Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Wu-Tang Clan Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Wanda Sykes Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Charles Melton Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Jessica Alba & Gabrielle Union Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Jon Hamm & David Tennant Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Thomas Middleditch & O'Shea Jackson Jr. Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Sophie Turner & Jessica Chastain Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Mindy Kaling & Emma Thompson Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Smosh Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Tom Holland, Zendaya & Jacob Batalon Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Millie Bobby Brown, Finn Wolfhard & Noah Schnapp Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Winona Ryder & David Harbour Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Eric Andre Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Machine Gun Kelly Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Charlie Puth Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Novak Djokovic Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Anderson Cooper Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Jim Gaffigan Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Liam Payne Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Lilly Singh Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Gwen Stefani Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Dove Cameron Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Kevin Smith Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Niall Horan Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Lele Pons Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Hailee Steinfeld Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Louis Tomlinson Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Kiernan Shipka & Isabela Merced Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Kristen Stewart, Naomi Scott, and Ella Balinska Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Jack Black & Awkwafina Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions KJ Apa Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions The Best of Autocomplete 2019: Funniest Moments from Stranger Things, Spider-Man and More Billy Eichner & Cobie Smulders Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Frozen 2 Cast Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Jada Pinkett Smith Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Zach Galifianakis & Zoe Saldana Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Elijah Wood Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Noah Centineo & Lana Condor Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Lucy Hale Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Patrick Stewart Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Norman Reedus Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Astronaut Chris Hadfield Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Nick Offerman Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Binging with Babish Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Jamie Dornan & Shailene Woodley Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Ellie Kemper Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Joe Biden Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Ricky Gervais Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Alicia Keys Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Tony Hawk Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Russell Crowe Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Kevin Bacon Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Joey King & Joel Courtney Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Kermit & Miss Piggy Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Alessia Cara Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Jamie Foxx & Joseph Gordon-Levitt Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Mayim Bialik Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Desus & Mero Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Dolly Parton Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Ruby Rose Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Sonequa Martin-Green Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Chelsea Handler Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions John C. Reilly & Tim Heidecker Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Joel McHale Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Questlove Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Dua Lipa Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Zara Larsson Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Bob Odenkirk and RZA Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions SpongeBob's Tom Kenny & Bill Fagerbakke Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Jackson Wang Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Eric Andre Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions...Again LILHUDDY Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Polo G Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Hank Azaria Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Zack Snyder Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions TWICE Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions MONSTA X Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Siri, Alexa and Google Home Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Rich Brian and NIKI Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions B.I Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Never Have I Ever Cast Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions M. Night Shyamalan Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Henry Golding Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions BTS Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Emily Blunt & Dwayne Johnson Answer The Web's Most Searched Questions Jennifer Hudson Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Outer Banks Cast Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Rita Ora Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Dove Cameron Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions...Again Daniel Radcliffe Answers MORE of the Web's Most Searched Questions Ben Platt & Amandla Stenberg Answer The Web's Most Searched Questions Tom Hardy & Andy Serkis Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions On My Block Cast Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Daniel Craig & Lashana Lynch Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions William Shatner Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Madison Beer Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Marshmello Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Amanda Seyfried & Finn Wittrock Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Nina Dobrev Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Kit Harington Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Kristen Bell & Kirby Howell-Baptiste Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Dominic Monaghan & Billy Boyd Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Cowboy Bebop Cast Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions YouTube Search Team Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Jack Whitehall Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Andrew Garfield Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Sabrina Carpenter Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Simu Liu Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Tom Holland, Zendaya & Jacob Batalon Answer MORE of the Web's Most Searched Questions Eric Nam Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Ben Affleck & Lily Rabe Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions ATEEZ Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Seth Rogen Answers The Web’s Most Searched Questions Owen Wilson Answers The Web’s Most Searched Questions David Byrne Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Johnny Knoxville Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Channing Tatum & Sandra Bullock Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Karen Gillan Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Leslie Mann & Judd Apatow Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Cole Sprouse Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Nicolas Cage Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions TommyInnit Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Drew Gooden Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Seth MacFarlane Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Sadie Sink, Noah Schnapp & Gaten Matarazzo Answer the Web’s Most Searched Questions Taika Waititi Answers the Web’s Most Searched Questions Maisie Williams Answers the Web’s Most Searched Questions Jacksepticeye Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Chris Hemsworth Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Guinness World Records Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions The Russo Brothers Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Keke Palmer Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Marques Brownlee Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Neil Patrick Harris Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Jennifer Lopez & Leah Remini Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Dakota Johnson & Jeff Bridges Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions High School Musical: The Musical: The Series Cast Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Kevin Hart & Mark Wahlberg Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Danny DeVito Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Lili Reinhart Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions John Boyega Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Sofía Vergara & Simon Cowell Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Steve-O Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Stray Kids Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Charli & Dixie D'Amelio Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions NCT 127 Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Hasan Minhaj Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Cobra Kai's Ralph Macchio Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Mrwhosetheboss Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Chloë Grace Moretz Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Millie Bobby Brown Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Jenna Ortega Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Veritasium's Derek Muller Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Jason Momoa Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions LaurDIY Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Nigel Ng & Uncle Roger Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Finn Wolfhard & Guillermo del Toro Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Ludwig Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions John Krasinski & Michael Kelly Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions ITZY Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Danny Gonzalez Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Ashton Kutcher Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Paul Rudd & Jonathan Majors Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Outer Banks Cast Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Again Kelly Slater Answers Surfing Questions From Twitter KAROL G Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Penn Badgley Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Chris Pine, Hugh Grant & Michelle Rodriguez Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Willem Dafoe Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions KSI Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Bob Odenkirk Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Jisoo Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Ali Wong & Steven Yeun Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Chris Evans & Ana de Armas Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Airrack Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions ChatGPT Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions James & Sean Gunn Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Mark Hamill Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Shameik Moore, Issa Rae & Hailee Steinfeld Answer The Web's Most Searched Questions Tom Segura Answers The Web's Most Searched Questions Robert Downey Jr. & Christopher Nolan Answer The Web's Most Searched Questions Bear Grylls Answers The Web's Most Searched Questions Smosh Answer The Web's Most Searched Questions Ice Cube Answers The Web's Most Searched Questions Stephen Curry Answers The Web's Most Searched Questions 'Heart of Stone' Cast Answers The Web's Most Searched Questions 'Critical Role' Cast Answers The Web's Most Searched Questions Harry Mack Freestyles The Web's Most Searched Questions Olivia Rodrigo Answers The Web's Most Searched Questions Pokimane Answers The Web's Most Searched Questions MoistCr1TiKaL Answers The Web's Most Searched Questions Dream Answers The Web's Most Searched Questions Fanum Answers The Web's Most Searched Questions Casey Neistat Answers The Web's Most Searched Questions | WIRED Måneskin Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
