Open Navigation Menu To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revisit this article, select My Account, then View saved stories Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Doctor Answers Blood Questions From Twitter About Released on 10/12/2023 I'm Dr. Sanjay Juneja, hematologist and medical oncologist.
I'm here to answer your questions from the internet.
This is Blood Support.
[upbeat music] First up, What happens if person gets injected with the wrong blood type? It's gonna be really bad and that's because it recognizes that protein as foreign, as a virus, and it just goes rogue.
It's just like destroy, destroy, destroy, destroy, destroy.
Generally, we treat it with immediate steroids and may need to consult some very fancy people to try to churn the blood and get it right.
We have a question from @paydun.
Do we even know why we have different types of blood...
like really? And the answer is we don't.
There's basically eight different basic ones that are different variations.
You can have A, B, O or some combination.
And when we're saying those letters, it basically reflects an antigen or a protein on the surface of the red blood cells.
But we do know that certain areas have more blood types than others.
One of the main reasons is because of infections and viruses.
For example, malaria likes to get into red blood cells and basically cause you all that sickness if you are type A.
So you'll see more type O in those areas because they were less likely to die.
Next question from Ryan Rodriguez.
Could blood actually spray and/or jettison from the human body as is sometimes seen in movies, shows, and games? The answer is yes.
If you cut an artery, that pressure is higher.
An artery is your oxygenated blood.
It's the stuff that just got the oxygen from the lungs and is being pumped out.
It's the top number on your blood pressure, and it carries oxygen and all the fuel and the stuff that all your cells need to the tissue.
But when you're drawing blood and the stuff that's the veins, it shouldn't be at the pressure to be shooting out at somebody.
Veins are a passive, more limpy process because it's the bottom number of millimeters of mercury on your blood pressure, and it's the blood that is now deoxygenated.
It's done its job and the red blood cells are coming back to get more oxygen into your lungs.
@Garrett_Sandlin, What the fuck is a hematologist...
Lol.
A very nerdy person usually that studies blood.
When we think of blood, you think of the the red stuff and it carries oxygen, but it's actually far more than that.
It's constituted predominantly by three things.
Red blood cells, right? They carry oxygen.
They're like, Ooh, gimme oxygen, lungs and then they go deliver it to the rest of your body.
But the other parts are white blood cells, the antibody stuff that you hear about vaccines that live for years.
The third part is platelets. Platelets help you clot.
They're the reason that when you get a cut, it actually closes up.
Those are generally the three parts and then the last one is what's called plasma.
And plasma is this beautiful harmony, balance of taking care of things when it comes to clotting and should you clot more, should you clot less and fight infections.
Point being, there's a reason that you have to do all of internal medicine for three years and then an additional one or two years in hematology just to understand how complicated this is.
Next question by Dr.Moxie Coms open, What exactly is a hemorrhage? A hemorrhage is a general term to just mean bleeding.
So you could be hemorrhaging, technically, from your arm from a cut, but we usually use it in a colloquial sense to mean a lot.
@spiidyy, What's the difference between red blood cells and white blood cells? Red blood cells are pretty much all the same thing in your body.
They carry oxygen.
Oxygen is the fuel on every cell in your body.
White blood cells have all different kinds.
There's neutrophils and lymphocytes.
Neutrophils are stuff that go up with bacterial infection and fight things when you inhale them all the time walking around.
And then you have the lymphocytes, which is all that antibody stuff.
Antibodies are smarter when it comes to attacking pathogens or viruses and stuff.
That's why you get vaccines when you're young.
They're already prepped and ready.
They're hardwired because you gave them the wanted poster.
They're kind of smarter marines and that's the whole concept behind vaccines as well as just getting an infection.
Posted by ChampionK448, How do scabs work? Scabs are basically the evidence of the clotting process.
The moment the endothelium, that is the inner lining of the red blood vessel, when it feels injury, it sends a whole cascade of markers and signals and say, Yo, I'm like, I'm cut here.
And then the platelets, which are the things that float in your bloodstream, they're actually yellow, which is why they're found in plasma.
They basically are the endothelium, the inside lining of the blood vessel floating around.
And then they go to that point of the injury and then they get out these little tentacles and they latch on and that's the platelet plug and they start sending out a lot of signals.
Yo, yo, come. We need to regenerate this.
So when that platelet formation starts, then you start getting a blood clot after that.
That is the immediate process that's happening to quickly restore that as fast as possible.
Next question from @MugishaElliot, My doctor friends, what causes a blood clot and how does it kill somebody? A blood clot is actually a complicated downstream series of events to make something that's hard and put together, that's clotting.
We need to be able to clot, right, all the time.
I mean if you get a cut, you need to be able to clot it.
However, you can have a clot that comes out randomly.
This is an example of what happens if you get a blood clot.
Especially if this blood vessel was in your lungs, a pulmonary embolism, and you blocked the blood flow entirely to be able to get oxygenated, you're in big trouble.
Next question, @McCoyee, What happens when you centrifuge blood? We are basically spinning down the blood.
The blood has multiple components.
It has red blood cells that carry oxygen, it has plasma, it has white blood cells that fight infection, and it has those platelets.
So today, we'll be using an example, back like science class, of oil, vinegar, and dye.
When you take that uniform solution and you want to isolate your plasma, if you put into the machine and then the centripetal force forces the densest thing to the outside, that's why it's angled.
And now you have a nice separation.
You have what looks like the plasma at the top, which is clear, and that's the stuff that if you get platelets or you're getting the plasma stuff in a hospital, you'll notice that the bag is yellow and it's different than when you're getting red blood cells.
Next question, @ihatetrace, Hey Siri, there's still blood in my urine.
How much is too much? If you were seeing blood in your urine, that's too much.
Even having red blood cells that you can't see called microscopic hematuria Any much is too much if you can see it.
@jacquesderridad, Is blood really blue in the body? The blue concept is inaccurate.
The veins appear blue, which are the lining or the piping that has the blood in it.
@uMthonos, How does the blood pressure arm thing work? What a blood pressure cuff is doing is assessing what pressure is your heart pumping at.
The left side of your heart is pumping blood all throughout your body.
You continue to elevate the pressure until the pressure in the cuff is more than the pressure of your heart pushing the blood to the end of your fingers, and then you start to come down.
So you're at 180, 170, 160, 150, 140, and then all of a sudden you hear that top number of that strong left ventricle in your heart able to start pushing.
That's when you know your top number.
And eventually, the beat fades away. Why? Because the bottom number is the passive way that our blood after it is done and given the oxygen to everything, it needs to come back to the heart to get more oxygen.
By Deft with many Ts, Why do people faint when they see blood? The reason that we pass out in general is because if our blood vessels dilate, which is what's happening when you see something that's scary, and your brain is not receiving enough blood anymore.
So the theory is, through evolution, our bodies learned that I'm having trouble getting blood with oxygen and fuel to the most important organ in my body, the least I can do is completely collapse so I don't have to combat Newton's gravitational law like downward.
Next question by Makala Phillips @98kala, Every time I'm on my period, I'm so confused how girls can bleed so much and still live.
Your bone marrow is constantly making blood.
And so if you were to check a reticulocyte, which is a baby blood vessel, it's cute, it's actually bigger than normal, you'll see that during and after your cycle, that reticulocyte count should be up.
That's showing that your bone marrow is spitting out and trying to accommodate for the circumstances.
Because your red blood cells all only live about 90 to 120 days so it's always doing it and it knows when you need more.
@sirjeff32, Can someone die from high blood pressure? Like this is a real question.
The answer is yes. Two times over.
You can die from acutely high blood pressure, which means at that moment.
Too much, you know, Adderall, cocaine, methamphetamines because they raise your blood pressure.
Now the blood pressure itself will not, you know, kill someone, but those blood vessels that are taking that insult from the heart, it's 200, it's 220, then if it cracks and pops open now you're bleeding into your brain or anywhere else and that can cause, obviously, immediate deaths.
But then over time, the reason people are so obsessive about it is because that injury from that flow of that blood pressure over and over and over eventually start causing this kind of stuff, plaque burdens and a little injury, and then now this coronary artery disease or cardiovascular disease is starting to clog up everything.
And remember the way that your heart functions, your brain functions, your kidneys function, all the things that are called vital organs start losing the amount of circulating blood and oxygen they need to operate correctly.
Next question from @MarkBski, How often are new blood cells made and what are they made from? They're all made, for the most part, in the same place.
They are made in the same place and that's your bone marrow.
When you break a chicken bone, you see that dark, you know, ruddy stuff.
It's in the bone, within the bone itself, and they're basically prompted by stem cells and your stem cells say, Hey, I need some more.
Your red blood cells live about 90 to 120 days.
So when they're getting kind of recycled in this spleen and old, you make new ones from the bone marrow.
This next question from Ari, Weird question, does anyone know if low white blood cell count is ever serious? If it deviates from your baseline and you see this massive drop, then that, generally, is thought to be something to investigate or be serious.
But what's crazy is in Black Americans and as well as some other minority groups, ranges we have for normal are actually based for the most part on Caucasian Americans from like the 1980s.
They took 10,000 healthy people and were like You look really healthy, let's see what your number is and said, This is what we consider normal.
So up to one out of three to one out of five Black Americans will actually repeatedly look low on the white blood cell count, but more specifically on the neutrophils.
That's something to be said about ranges.
So if you're ethnic and you're using the range of someone in America of what our cutoffs are, realize that we only know normal by sampling people and saying You look healthy and this is what we think is normal.
@Enoch_Nyanz, What are the signs of leukemia? Leukemia is when something has gone very wrong, very, very wrong in your bone marrow.
Your bone marrow has like a hierarchy and pecking order.
You have just the number of cells that you need to differentiate and mature and grow.
When leukemia happens is it's not regulated anymore.
Cancer means unregulated cell growth.
If you have acute leukemia, market exhaustion, market fatigue, your blood count is like super low, and you may be losing weight, and you're exquisitely sensitive to getting infections.
And oftentimes, you'll notice you start getting, you know, spots of little pinpoint red dots out of nowhere because your platelets are so low.
@Jinnah2Imran, Why do mosquitoes prefer some people, but wouldn't bite others? One of the main things that they're theorizing is if you have more CO2, which is bicarbonate, in your blood, apparently mosquitoes can kind of almost sense in the blood that has more bicarbonate.
Also, depending on what type you have, supposedly, that may kind of trigger or have a predilection on what mosquitoes favor.
But the truth is it's quite complicated and we all wish that Noah had just slapped those two mosquitoes.
Well, that's all the questions.
I really hope you learned something and appreciate the blood system more.
We'll see you next time.
Gordon Ramsay Answers Cooking Questions From Twitter Ken Jeong Answers Medical Questions From Twitter Bill Nye Answers Science Questions From Twitter Blizzard's Jeff Kaplan Answers Overwatch Questions From Twitter Nick Offerman Answers Woodworking Questions From Twitter Bungie's Luke Smith Answers Destiny Questions From Twitter Jackie Chan & Olivia Munn Answer Martial Arts Questions From Twitter Scott Kelly Answers Astronaut Questions From Twitter LaVar Ball Answers Basketball Questions From Twitter Dillon Francis Answers DJ Questions From Twitter Tony Hawk Answers Skateboarding Questions From Twitter Jerry Rice Answers Football Questions From Twitter Garry Kasparov Answers Chess Questions From Twitter U.S. Olympic and Paralympic Athletes Answer Olympics Questions From Twitter Neuroscientist Anil Seth Answers Neuroscience Questions From Twitter Blizzard's Ben Brode Answers Hearthstone Questions From Twitter John Cena Answers Wrestling Questions From Twitter The Slow Mo Guys Answer Slow Motion Questions From Twitter Bill Nye Answers Even More Science Questions From Twitter James Cameron Answers Sci-Fi Questions From Twitter Best of Tech Support: Bill Nye, Neil DeGrasse Tyson and More Answer Science Questions from Twitter Riot Games' Greg Street Answers League of Legends Questions from Twitter Riot Games' Greg Street Answers Even More League of Legends Questions from Twitter PlayerUnknown Answers PUBG Questions From Twitter Liza Koshy, Markiplier, Rhett & Link, and Hannah Hart Answer YouTube Creator Questions From Twitter NCT 127 Answer K-Pop Questions From Twitter Neil deGrasse Tyson Answers Science Questions From Twitter Ken Jeong Answers More Medical Questions From Twitter Bon Appétit's Brad & Claire Answer Cooking Questions From Twitter Bang Bang Answers Tattoo Questions From Twitter Ed Boon Answers Mortal Kombat 11 Questions From Twitter Nick Jonas and Kelly Clarkson Answer Singing Questions from Twitter Penn Jillette Answers Magic Questions From Twitter The Russo Brothers Answer Avengers: Endgame Questions From Twitter Alex Honnold Answers Climbing Questions From Twitter Sloane Stephens Answers Tennis Questions From Twitter Bill Nye Answers Science Questions From Twitter - Part 3 Astronaut Nicole Stott Answers Space Questions From Twitter Mark Cuban Answers Mogul Questions From Twitter Ubisoft's Alexander Karpazis Answers Rainbow Six Siege Questions From Twitter Marathon Champion Answers Running Questions From Twitter Ninja Answers Fortnite Questions From Twitter Cybersecurity Expert Answers Hacking Questions From Twitter Bon Appétit's Brad & Chris Answer Thanksgiving Questions From Twitter SuperM Answers K-Pop Questions From Twitter The Best of Tech Support: Ken Jeong, Bill Nye, Nicole Stott and More Twitter's Jack Dorsey Answers Twitter Questions From Twitter Jodie Whittaker Answers Doctor Who Questions From Twitter Astronomer Jill Tarter Answers Alien Questions From Twitter Tattoo Artist Bang Bang Answers More Tattoo Questions From Twitter Respawn Answers Apex Legends Questions From Twitter Michael Strahan Answers Super Bowl Questions From Twitter Dr. Martin Blaser Answers Coronavirus Questions From Twitter Scott Adkins Answers Martial Arts Training Questions From Twitter Psychiatrist Daniel Amen Answers Brain Questions From Twitter The Hamilton Cast Answers Hamilton Questions From Twitter Travis & Lyn-Z Pastrana Answer Stunt Questions From Twitter Mayim Bialik Answers Neuroscience Questions From Twitter Zach King Answers TikTok Questions From Twitter Riot Games Answers League of Legends Questions from Twitter Aaron Sorkin Answers Screenwriting Questions From Twitter Survivorman Les Stroud Answers Survival Questions From Twitter Joe Manganiello Answers Dungeons & Dragons Questions From Twitter "Star Wars Explained" Answers Star Wars Questions From Twitter Wizards of the Coast Answer Magic: The Gathering Questions From Twitter "Star Wars Explained" Answers More Star Wars Questions From Twitter VFX Artist Answers Movie & TV VFX Questions From Twitter CrossFit Coach Answers CrossFit Questions From Twitter Yo-Yo Ma Answers Cello Questions From Twitter Mortician Answers Cadaver Questions From Twitter Babish Answers Cooking Questions From Twitter Jacob Collier Answers Music Theory Questions From Twitter The Lord of the Rings Expert Answers More Tolkien Questions From Twitter Wolfgang Puck Answers Restaurant Questions From Twitter Fast & Furious Car Expert Answers Car Questions From Twitter Former FBI Agent Answers Body Language Questions From Twitter Olympian Dominique Dawes Answers Gymnastics Questions From Twitter Allyson Felix Answers Track Questions From Twitter Dr. Michio Kaku Answers Physics Questions From Twitter Former NASA Astronaut Answers Space Questions From Twitter Surgeon Answers Surgery Questions From Twitter Beekeeper Answers Bee Questions From Twitter Michael Pollan Answers Psychedelics Questions From Twitter Ultramarathoner Answers Questions From Twitter Bug Expert Answers Insect Questions From Twitter Former Cult Member Answers Cult Questions From Twitter Mortician Answers MORE Dead Body Questions From Twitter Toxicologist Answers Poison Questions From Twitter Brewmaster Answers Beer Questions From Twitter Biologist Answers Biology Questions From Twitter James Dyson Answers Design Questions From Twitter Dermatologist Answers Skin Questions From Twitter Dwyane Wade Answers Basketball Questions From Twitter Baker Answers Baking Questions from Twitter Astrophysicist Answers Questions From Twitter Age Expert Answers Aging Questions From Twitter Fertility Expert Answers Questions From Twitter Biological Anthropologist Answers Love Questions From Twitter Mathematician Answers Math Questions From Twitter Statistician Answers Stats Questions From Twitter Sleep Expert Answers Questions From Twitter Botanist Answers Plant Questions From Twitter Ornithologist Answers Bird Questions From Twitter Alex Honnold Answers MORE Rock Climbing Questions From Twitter Former FBI Agent Answers MORE Body Language Questions From Twitter Waste Expert Answers Garbage Questions From Twitter Garbage Boss Answers Trash Questions From Twitter J. Kenji López-Alt Answers Cooking Questions From Twitter Veterinarian Answers Pet Questions From Twitter Doctor Answers Gut Questions From Twitter Chemist Answers Chemistry Questions From Twitter Taste Expert Answers Questions From Twitter Paleontologist Answers Dinosaur Questions From Twitter Biologist Answers More Biology Questions From Twitter Biologist Answers Even More Biology Questions From Twitter ER Doctor Answers Injury Questions From Twitter Toxicologist Answers More Poison Questions From Twitter Energy Expert Answers Energy Questions From Twitter BBQ Pitmaster Answers BBQ Questions From Twitter Neil Gaiman Answers Mythology Questions From Twitter Sushi Chef Answers Sushi Questions From Twitter The Lord of the Rings Expert Answers Tolkien Questions From Twitter Audiologist Answers Hearing Questions From Twitter Marine Biologist Answers Shark Questions From Twitter Bill Nye Answers Science Questions From Twitter - Part 4 John McEnroe Answers Tennis Questions From Twitter Malcolm Gladwell Answers Research Questions From Twitter Financial Advisor Answers Money Questions From Twitter Stanford Computer Scientist Answers Coding Questions From Twitter Wildlife Vet Answers Wild Animal Questions From Twitter Climate Scientist Answers Earth Questions From Twitter Medical Doctor Answers Hormone Questions From Twitter James Hoffmann Answers Coffee Questions From Twitter Video Game Director Answers Questions From Twitter Robotics Professor Answers Robot Questions From Twitter Scam Fighters Answer Scam Questions From Twitter Forensics Expert Answers Crime Scene Questions From Twitter Chess Pro Answers Questions From Twitter Former FBI Agent Answers Body Language Questions From Twitter...Once Again Memory Champion Answers Questions From Twitter Neuroscientist Answers Illusion Questions From Twitter Immunologist Answers Immune System Questions From Twitter Rocket Scientists Answer Questions From Twitter How Vinyl Records Are Made (with Third Man Records) Neurosurgeon Answers Brain Surgery Questions From Twitter Therapist Answers Relationship Questions From Twitter Polyphia's Tim Henson Answers Guitar Questions From Twitter Structural Engineer Answers City Questions From Twitter Harvard Professor Answers Happiness Questions From Twitter A.I. Expert Answers A.I. Questions From Twitter Pizza Chef Answers Pizza Questions From Twitter Former CIA Chief of Disguise Answers Spy Questions From Twitter Astrophysicist Answers Space Questions From Twitter Cannabis Scientist Answers Questions From Twitter Sommelier Answers Wine Questions From Twitter Mycologist Answers Mushroom Questions From Twitter Genndy Tartakovsky Answers Animation Questions From Twitter Pro Card Counter Answers Casino Questions From Twitter Doctor Answers Lung Questions From Twitter Paul Hollywood & Prue Leith Answer Baking Questions From Twitter Geneticist Answers Genetics Questions From Twitter Sneaker Expert Jeff Staple Answers Sneaker Questions From Twitter 'The Points Guy' Brian Kelly Answers Travel Questions From Twitter Master Chef Answers Indian Food & Curry Questions From Twitter Archaeologist Answers Archaeology Questions From Twitter LegalEagle's Devin Stone Answers Law Questions From Twitter Todd McFarlane Answers Comics Questions From Twitter Reptile Expert Answers Reptile Questions From Twitter Mortician Answers Burial Questions From Twitter Eye Doctor Answers Eye Questions From Twitter Computer Scientist Answers Computer Questions From Twitter Neurologist Answers Nerve Questions From Twitter Hacker Answers Penetration Test Questions From Twitter Nutritionist Answers Nutrition Questions From Twitter Experts Predict the Future of Technology, AI & Humanity Doctor Answers Blood Questions From Twitter Sports Statistician Answers Sports Math Questions From Twitter Shark Tank's Mark Cuban Answers Business Questions From Twitter Marvel’s Spider-Man 2 Director Answers Video Game Questions From Twitter Criminologist Answers True Crime Questions From Twitter Physicist Answers Physics Questions From Twitter | Tech Support Chess Pro Answers More Questions From Twitter Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
