Open Navigation Menu To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revisit this article, select My Account, then View saved stories Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons 'The Points Guy' Brian Kelly Answers Travel Questions From Twitter About Released on 06/20/2023 I'm Brian Kelly, travel expert and founder of The Points Guy, and I'm here today to answer your questions from Twitter.
This is Travel Support.
[upbeat music] From @52HzBTS.
We've got a K-Pop fan.
Which is better, United, Delta or American Airlines? We call them the big three.
I already know Spirit is ass and doesn't operate globally.
Of those three airlines, best? Delta.
If you just wanna look at on-time arrival, Delta's got the best operation, and in my opinion, that is the best airline, the one that will get you to where you're going on time 'cause time is money.
But when it comes to frequent flyer program, I think United has the best loyalty program.
They are part of the Star Alliance which is the largest network of airlines.
So you can redeem on partners like Swiss or Lufthansa or Singapore Airlines.
So in general, I love having United Miles, but I like flying Delta.
The next one up is from mockdownblues.
And, Why are so many flights being canceled lately? This is due in large part to staffing.
In this summer in 2023, we're gonna be at pre pandemic levels.
However, staffing across airports and at air traffic control towers is only at 80%, and this is creating a huge issue.
The whole system needs to be fundamentally rewired and brought to the 21st century using technology and less dependent on humans.
From @queenofyodaddy, What's the best site for plane tickets? I love Google Flights.
And why I like Google Flights is, 'cause you can actually visualize by calendar date fair pricing, and that's how you save money when looking for plane tickets.
It also has what I love, it's called an explore map feature.
So say you wanna go on vacation somewhere warm.
You can pull up the explore map, and it'll show you fair prices around the world.
And I love to encourage people, search out the cheapest deals and plan your trip around it.
Save your cold hard cash, buy the cheap flight to a cool destination you might have never been to so that you can spend more money at the destination.
From Jeggedcom, Why do travel agents still exist? It's kind of funny.
Travel agents are booming because travel is as complex as ever, especially for people booking expensive trips, honeymoons, safaris, cruises, but using a travel agent, you often get the same prices you're gonna get online, but you're gonna get a whole lot more service.
And throughout the pandemic, we all experienced this.
You couldn't get through to airlines.
You couldn't get a refund.
So when you book your trip through a travel agent, you don't have to worry about calling the airline.
You call up your agent who's getting a commission on it all and say, Hey, my flight was canceled.
I need you to get a refund and rebook me on a different carrier.
And they do it all for you.
They have secret lines to the airlines.
They can actually change flights themselves through their ticketing system.
KyleGoesGlobal, What's your guys travel plans? Would love recommendations on lesser known European gems if you have the flexibility.
The Azores, the Azores are just five hours from New York.
They fly nonstop.
They call it, if Hawaii and Ireland had a baby, it would be the Azores.
And the food is super cheap when you get there 'cause they grow it all on the island.
Also, Madeira Island, which is a Portuguese island off the coast of Africa, gorgeous, super affordable, and once again only six hours from the US nonstop.
This is a great question everyone should listen to.
@Blackbridge, When traveling abroad, should you pay with the local currency? And the answer is yes.
So this is a scam that is so pervasive everywhere you go now.
When you're using a US credit card, it'll say, Oh, do you want to pay in your currency? Don't worry, we won't charge you any fees.
Always select local currency and let your bank do the transaction.
Because when you choose pay in your currency, they will always charge you a horrible exchange rate, and they're basically stealing from you.
From dyahmoni, Help! Clear or TSA pre-check? Both because Clear gets you to the front of the TSA pre-check line.
The number one thing I can't live without is Global Entry.
Pre-check is about $85.
Global Entry is $100 so it's $15 more.
Now Global Entry is what gets you across the US border in 60 seconds.
You also get pre-checked.
And here's the tip with Global Entry.
A lot of people say, Well, there's no appointments available once you get approved.
Well, there's an app called Appointment Scanner for $30.
It's a tool that'll scan every second for open appointments, and within a day, you will have an appointment at your airport at a time that's within the next couple weeks.
Next up from luxurytrash, What is the best travel points credit card? Drum roll please.
So I'm gonna give you three answers because you can't compare all credit cards to each other 'cause that would be like saying, what's better, a Hyundai or a Bentley? I love the Bilt card because it's no annual fee.
You earn double points on travel, triple on dining, and get this, you earn one point per dollar on rent.
It is the only credit card that lets you pay rent, which for so many of us is our biggest monthly expense, with no fees.
Plus those points transfer to partners like American, United, Hyatt.
They are the most valuable points currency out there in my humble opinion.
For the $95 card segment, I would say Chase Sapphire Preferred as an all-around solid car that comes with a big signup bonus.
Points are one thing, but perks are another, right? So if you want to go to lounges and get really good customer service, you can't go wrong with the Amex Platinum.
You get $200 in airline credits, Uber credits.
But in order to get your value back from that hefty annual fee, you need to make sure you're actually using those perks.
If you're a once or twice a year flyer, probably not worth it to get a Platinum card.
We've got kaylajdr.
Dear Twitter, I have a serious question.
Is flying Spirit/Frontier really that bad? Signed, a frugal bitch.
I'm not a frugal bitch.
I like to splurge, and I'll still fly Spirit when it makes sense, for short flights, LA to Vegas.
It does not make sense to spend $200 extra to fly United Airlines or American.
It's not that much different.
And when you look at the on-time arrival of Frontier, it's better than a lot of the bigger airlines.
So there's nothing wrong with flying those airlines.
Now I will say when things go bad on those low-cost carriers, buckle up.
Understand that like when things go wrong, you've gotta be able to rebook yourself.
You know, request the refund.
The low-cost carriers are not really gonna take care of you.
From @CultureTrekking, What are your favorite gadgets to take with you when traveling? I think it's very important when you're traveling to be able to control your environment.
So I pop on my noise-canceling headphones right away on a flight.
I love Apple AirPods Max.
I was a Bose QC35 guy for years.
Lots of other cheaper alternatives out there, but I never leave home without them.
From MissxoxOH, When planning a trip, how many days/weeks ahead of time do most of y'all cop a flight? Depends, when I'm paying for a flight, in general internationally, you wanna book 3+ months out.
See the airlines, they know the closer to a flight, the more desperate generally people are.
And those people who book last minute are often business travelers who will spend whatever it takes.
Domestic, usually four to six weeks is the sweet spot, but these days, airlines price dynamically.
So you can still get a fair sale a couple weeks out.
When booking frequent flyer mile tickets, you generally want to book 10 or 11 months in advance when possible or last minute.
Why books so far using miles? Because 10 or 11 months out are when airlines open up their schedule, and most airlines release seats on every single flight.
So if you can book far in advance, you can be the first to snag those frequent flyer mile tickets at the lowest level.
From @ezTaxReturn, We're the most and least affordable places to visit during the holidays? Now this depends what hot holiday you're talking about, but I'll say from an American perspective, summer holidays, we're seeing Europe is through the roof, right? So what I recommend is go to Europe over the Thanksgiving and Christmas holidays where the weather's much more temperate, and airfares are literally half as much, if not less.
And in general, where do you find cheap holidays? I recommend look where the US dollar is really strong.
So even if you want to go to Europe in the summer, Greece is so expensive.
Look at Turkey.
Bodrum is a hotspot and not cheap-cheap, but much cheaper than Greece, for example.
Even Croatia, Croatia's incredible.
And it's much cheaper than going to Mykonos or Ibiza.
And South Africa, it's one of my favorite places to visit.
The US dollar goes so far.
It's a little expensive to get there, and it's far away.
But once you're there, things are so affordable.
@mchileyo, When making a purchase for travel, do you make the decision to buy based on the rewards points you get? So yes and no, right? Always get the most amount of points possible.
So obviously you get points for using a credit card that earns points, but there's also online shopping portals, and so many people don't know about these.
And the basics of this are, you can put your frequent flyer number in your browser, and then when you shop through that airline or hotel's shopping portal, they give you extra miles.
If you buy anything online, always click through a shopping portal.
You're gonna get a separate trache of miles plus the miles from your credit card.
CashSmarter, Ever been to Italy on the cheap? So Italy, especially in the summer, it's gonna be peak pricing.
Capri, Amalfi Coast, it's hard to find real budget accommodations, but there's so many other more beautiful places in Italy anyway that are less crowded.
I personally love Puglia.
Puglia is where Italians go on vacation, and there are lots of really reasonable vacation rentals and equally as great food, just a whole lot less touristy.
@SannaMadan, Is travel insurance worth it or a scam? So travel insurance can be a lifesaver.
What is a scam is travel protection.
That's what most airlines and hotels offer you when you're checking out, and they say, Hey, wanna add protection to your trip? It's generally very expensive and much less comprehensive than travel insurance.
What I say with travel insurance is, the devil's in the details.
So always understand what your policy covers.
Ensuremytrip.com is the clearing house.
It's kind of like the place to go to compare policies.
It's always better to compare multiple policies and get through a third party than booking it directly with the airline hotel or vacation rentals.
All right, from advemtures.
Any tips on recovering from jet lag? 'Cause I'm all kinds of messed up.
First off, choose the right flight time.
I go to Europe quite a bit from the East Coast.
Think about it. It's a six-hour flight.
Leaving at 5:00 PM, you're landing at midnight.
Do you ever sleep from six to midnight at home? Like your body's not ready to sleep? So I always recommend to taking that 11:00 PM flight.
Exhaust yourself during the day so the minute you get on that plane you are able to sleep.
All right, @jimmydouglas, What's the best last minute hotel booking website? I love HotelTonight for last minute, but don't always assume that that's the best rate.
Often hotels will actually match those rates if you book directly.
And this matters because when you book a hotel directly, you can earn their valuable loyalty points.
If you have elite status, you can get extra points.
So this is what I would do.
You can find the cheap hotel online, but call the hotel directly and say, Hey, I can book you using one of these third parties, but can you match or beat the price and give me extra perks? And many times, that's a great deal for both parties 'cause the hotel doesn't have to pay 20% or more to that third party.
They can shower you with the money that they save, and you both win.
@rubwehv, When traveling, how do you deal with the anxiety of not speaking the language of the country you're visiting? Great question.
I always learn core, basic phrases in the language I'm going to.
It makes a difference.
People are so willing to help you, and apps are amazing.
Make sure you have a phone that has international coverage.
There are apps that'll translate in real time, but overall, if you're friendly and cool, you'll be fine.
Next up, from sadlyoddisfying, How do these status things work? Do you fly one airline and get status for life or what? Airline status used to be based on how much you flew, hence frequent flyer program.
However, airline status programs these days are frequent buyer programs.
What do I mean by that? Airline now don't really care how much you fly.
They care about how much you spend on the airline and on its partners, including on the airline credit card.
So this is a good thing for people who spend a lot of money on your credit cards 'cause you can get airline status easier today than ever before.
So why would someone want to go jump through all these hoops to get status? Well, in general, the airlines treat those frequent flyers with status a whole lot better than everyone else.
You see in the airport when there's a hundred people lined up waiting to get re-booked.
Those are people without status.
Because when you have airline status, you call a secret number, and they'll take care of you.
In fact, when your flight's canceled, I often will get a text from the airline.
Mr. Kelly, you've been re-booked on the next flight out.
@flaviamorii, I need to know what points everyone's using in these TikTok videos to get cheap flights to travel the world because WTF have I been doing? Hear me out.
The most valuable points in general are not any specific airline or hotel.
The most valuable points are what we call in the biz transferable points currencies.
So this is Amex Membership Rewards, Chase Ultimate Rewards, Capital One Venture and Bilt Rewards.
So you accrue on those credit cards into these programs, and then they allow you to transfer to a number of different partners.
And why this is amazing is that, if you accrue only your favorite airline, say you love JetBlue, you can really only redeem on JetBlue and a couple other partners, and it's pegged to the price of the ticket.
So if you want some $10,000 first-class ticket, like you're seeing all these TikTokers do, you're gonna want to have transferable credit card points.
Just like investing with stock, you want to hedge your bets and get a currency that is super flexible and valuable and will meet the needs wherever you want to go.
Next up from VictoriaPinder, Trains, planes or automobiles, what's the best way to travel through Europe? Absolutely trains, if the trains go to where you're going, and let's be honest, trains are a lot better for the environment, especially for short hops.
In fact, some countries are even banning short flights and making people take trains, which I'm not necessarily against.
@xuikuun says, About to brace for a 20-hour flight journey.
Tips for long flights, anyone? So I'm guessing she's going New York to Singapore, which is the world's longest flight.
I have a lot of friends in the industry who travel quite a bit, and they will tell you, make sure that you get up and walk.
If you're sitting in economy sitting upright, make sure you have compression socks.
Make sure you drink tons of water.
I always bring an eye mask with me.
Earplugs, I put earplugs in my noise-canceling headphone.
I always bring protein bars and snacks with me.
Some airlines run really hot.
A lot of the Asian airlines crank that heat, baby.
And you can be roasting, and here's the tip.
So many of us, if you're roasting on a flight, you can actually ask a flight attendant.
They have a panel, and they can change it around the zone of your seat while leaving the rest of the cabin as is.
So never hurts to ask.
From JamesLNeiman, Thinking about starting to plan a family vacation on a cruise.
Anyone out there who's been on one or knows how to get a good deal? Sometimes going to a cruise specialist, a travel agent that specializes in cruises can get you not only the best deal but a ton of extra perks on board.
And if you're a member of Costco, Costco cruises can be a great way to save money.
Before you're pulling the trigger though, just make sure you comparison shop.
Make sure you evaluate not just the cost but also the perks that you're getting.
All right, that's it for Travel Support today.
I hope you learn something, and even though travel can be a little bit difficult these days, I encourage all of you to get out there and have safe travels. [upbeat jazzy music] Gordon Ramsay Answers Cooking Questions From Twitter Ken Jeong Answers Medical Questions From Twitter Bill Nye Answers Science Questions From Twitter Blizzard's Jeff Kaplan Answers Overwatch Questions From Twitter Nick Offerman Answers Woodworking Questions From Twitter Bungie's Luke Smith Answers Destiny Questions From Twitter Jackie Chan & Olivia Munn Answer Martial Arts Questions From Twitter Scott Kelly Answers Astronaut Questions From Twitter LaVar Ball Answers Basketball Questions From Twitter Dillon Francis Answers DJ Questions From Twitter Tony Hawk Answers Skateboarding Questions From Twitter Jerry Rice Answers Football Questions From Twitter Garry Kasparov Answers Chess Questions From Twitter U.S. Olympic and Paralympic Athletes Answer Olympics Questions From Twitter Neuroscientist Anil Seth Answers Neuroscience Questions From Twitter Blizzard's Ben Brode Answers Hearthstone Questions From Twitter John Cena Answers Wrestling Questions From Twitter The Slow Mo Guys Answer Slow Motion Questions From Twitter Bill Nye Answers Even More Science Questions From Twitter James Cameron Answers Sci-Fi Questions From Twitter Best of Tech Support: Bill Nye, Neil DeGrasse Tyson and More Answer Science Questions from Twitter Riot Games' Greg Street Answers League of Legends Questions from Twitter Riot Games' Greg Street Answers Even More League of Legends Questions from Twitter PlayerUnknown Answers PUBG Questions From Twitter Liza Koshy, Markiplier, Rhett & Link, and Hannah Hart Answer YouTube Creator Questions From Twitter NCT 127 Answer K-Pop Questions From Twitter Neil deGrasse Tyson Answers Science Questions From Twitter Ken Jeong Answers More Medical Questions From Twitter Bon Appétit's Brad & Claire Answer Cooking Questions From Twitter Bang Bang Answers Tattoo Questions From Twitter Ed Boon Answers Mortal Kombat 11 Questions From Twitter Nick Jonas and Kelly Clarkson Answer Singing Questions from Twitter Penn Jillette Answers Magic Questions From Twitter The Russo Brothers Answer Avengers: Endgame Questions From Twitter Alex Honnold Answers Climbing Questions From Twitter Sloane Stephens Answers Tennis Questions From Twitter Bill Nye Answers Science Questions From Twitter - Part 3 Astronaut Nicole Stott Answers Space Questions From Twitter Mark Cuban Answers Mogul Questions From Twitter Ubisoft's Alexander Karpazis Answers Rainbow Six Siege Questions From Twitter Marathon Champion Answers Running Questions From Twitter Ninja Answers Fortnite Questions From Twitter Cybersecurity Expert Answers Hacking Questions From Twitter Bon Appétit's Brad & Chris Answer Thanksgiving Questions From Twitter SuperM Answers K-Pop Questions From Twitter The Best of Tech Support: Ken Jeong, Bill Nye, Nicole Stott and More Twitter's Jack Dorsey Answers Twitter Questions From Twitter Jodie Whittaker Answers Doctor Who Questions From Twitter Astronomer Jill Tarter Answers Alien Questions From Twitter Tattoo Artist Bang Bang Answers More Tattoo Questions From Twitter Respawn Answers Apex Legends Questions From Twitter Michael Strahan Answers Super Bowl Questions From Twitter Dr. Martin Blaser Answers Coronavirus Questions From Twitter Scott Adkins Answers Martial Arts Training Questions From Twitter Psychiatrist Daniel Amen Answers Brain Questions From Twitter The Hamilton Cast Answers Hamilton Questions From Twitter Travis & Lyn-Z Pastrana Answer Stunt Questions From Twitter Mayim Bialik Answers Neuroscience Questions From Twitter Zach King Answers TikTok Questions From Twitter Riot Games Answers League of Legends Questions from Twitter Aaron Sorkin Answers Screenwriting Questions From Twitter Survivorman Les Stroud Answers Survival Questions From Twitter Joe Manganiello Answers Dungeons & Dragons Questions From Twitter "Star Wars Explained" Answers Star Wars Questions From Twitter Wizards of the Coast Answer Magic: The Gathering Questions From Twitter "Star Wars Explained" Answers More Star Wars Questions From Twitter VFX Artist Answers Movie & TV VFX Questions From Twitter CrossFit Coach Answers CrossFit Questions From Twitter Yo-Yo Ma Answers Cello Questions From Twitter Mortician Answers Cadaver Questions From Twitter Babish Answers Cooking Questions From Twitter Jacob Collier Answers Music Theory Questions From Twitter The Lord of the Rings Expert Answers More Tolkien Questions From Twitter Wolfgang Puck Answers Restaurant Questions From Twitter Fast & Furious Car Expert Answers Car Questions From Twitter Former FBI Agent Answers Body Language Questions From Twitter Olympian Dominique Dawes Answers Gymnastics Questions From Twitter Allyson Felix Answers Track Questions From Twitter Dr. Michio Kaku Answers Physics Questions From Twitter Former NASA Astronaut Answers Space Questions From Twitter Surgeon Answers Surgery Questions From Twitter Beekeeper Answers Bee Questions From Twitter Michael Pollan Answers Psychedelics Questions From Twitter Ultramarathoner Answers Questions From Twitter Bug Expert Answers Insect Questions From Twitter Former Cult Member Answers Cult Questions From Twitter Mortician Answers MORE Dead Body Questions From Twitter Toxicologist Answers Poison Questions From Twitter Brewmaster Answers Beer Questions From Twitter Biologist Answers Biology Questions From Twitter James Dyson Answers Design Questions From Twitter Dermatologist Answers Skin Questions From Twitter Dwyane Wade Answers Basketball Questions From Twitter Baker Answers Baking Questions from Twitter Astrophysicist Answers Questions From Twitter Age Expert Answers Aging Questions From Twitter Fertility Expert Answers Questions From Twitter Biological Anthropologist Answers Love Questions From Twitter Mathematician Answers Math Questions From Twitter Statistician Answers Stats Questions From Twitter Sleep Expert Answers Questions From Twitter Botanist Answers Plant Questions From Twitter Ornithologist Answers Bird Questions From Twitter Alex Honnold Answers MORE Rock Climbing Questions From Twitter Former FBI Agent Answers MORE Body Language Questions From Twitter Waste Expert Answers Garbage Questions From Twitter Garbage Boss Answers Trash Questions From Twitter J. Kenji López-Alt Answers Cooking Questions From Twitter Veterinarian Answers Pet Questions From Twitter Doctor Answers Gut Questions From Twitter Chemist Answers Chemistry Questions From Twitter Taste Expert Answers Questions From Twitter Paleontologist Answers Dinosaur Questions From Twitter Biologist Answers More Biology Questions From Twitter Biologist Answers Even More Biology Questions From Twitter ER Doctor Answers Injury Questions From Twitter Toxicologist Answers More Poison Questions From Twitter Energy Expert Answers Energy Questions From Twitter BBQ Pitmaster Answers BBQ Questions From Twitter Neil Gaiman Answers Mythology Questions From Twitter Sushi Chef Answers Sushi Questions From Twitter The Lord of the Rings Expert Answers Tolkien Questions From Twitter Audiologist Answers Hearing Questions From Twitter Marine Biologist Answers Shark Questions From Twitter Bill Nye Answers Science Questions From Twitter - Part 4 John McEnroe Answers Tennis Questions From Twitter Malcolm Gladwell Answers Research Questions From Twitter Financial Advisor Answers Money Questions From Twitter Stanford Computer Scientist Answers Coding Questions From Twitter Wildlife Vet Answers Wild Animal Questions From Twitter Climate Scientist Answers Earth Questions From Twitter Medical Doctor Answers Hormone Questions From Twitter James Hoffmann Answers Coffee Questions From Twitter Video Game Director Answers Questions From Twitter Robotics Professor Answers Robot Questions From Twitter Scam Fighters Answer Scam Questions From Twitter Forensics Expert Answers Crime Scene Questions From Twitter Chess Pro Answers Questions From Twitter Former FBI Agent Answers Body Language Questions From Twitter...Once Again Memory Champion Answers Questions From Twitter Neuroscientist Answers Illusion Questions From Twitter Immunologist Answers Immune System Questions From Twitter Rocket Scientists Answer Questions From Twitter How Vinyl Records Are Made (with Third Man Records) Neurosurgeon Answers Brain Surgery Questions From Twitter Therapist Answers Relationship Questions From Twitter Polyphia's Tim Henson Answers Guitar Questions From Twitter Structural Engineer Answers City Questions From Twitter Harvard Professor Answers Happiness Questions From Twitter A.I. Expert Answers A.I. Questions From Twitter Pizza Chef Answers Pizza Questions From Twitter Former CIA Chief of Disguise Answers Spy Questions From Twitter Astrophysicist Answers Space Questions From Twitter Cannabis Scientist Answers Questions From Twitter Sommelier Answers Wine Questions From Twitter Mycologist Answers Mushroom Questions From Twitter Genndy Tartakovsky Answers Animation Questions From Twitter Pro Card Counter Answers Casino Questions From Twitter Doctor Answers Lung Questions From Twitter Paul Hollywood & Prue Leith Answer Baking Questions From Twitter Geneticist Answers Genetics Questions From Twitter Sneaker Expert Jeff Staple Answers Sneaker Questions From Twitter 'The Points Guy' Brian Kelly Answers Travel Questions From Twitter Master Chef Answers Indian Food & Curry Questions From Twitter Archaeologist Answers Archaeology Questions From Twitter LegalEagle's Devin Stone Answers Law Questions From Twitter Todd McFarlane Answers Comics Questions From Twitter Reptile Expert Answers Reptile Questions From Twitter Mortician Answers Burial Questions From Twitter Eye Doctor Answers Eye Questions From Twitter Computer Scientist Answers Computer Questions From Twitter Neurologist Answers Nerve Questions From Twitter Hacker Answers Penetration Test Questions From Twitter Nutritionist Answers Nutrition Questions From Twitter Experts Predict the Future of Technology, AI & Humanity Doctor Answers Blood Questions From Twitter Sports Statistician Answers Sports Math Questions From Twitter Shark Tank's Mark Cuban Answers Business Questions From Twitter Marvel’s Spider-Man 2 Director Answers Video Game Questions From Twitter Criminologist Answers True Crime Questions From Twitter Physicist Answers Physics Questions From Twitter | Tech Support Chess Pro Answers More Questions From Twitter Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
