Open Navigation Menu To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revisit this article, select My Account, then View saved stories Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Why Vintage Tech Is So Valuable To Collectors About Released on 10/09/2023 My name is Mark Montero.
I'm the founder of LCG Auctions.
We specialize in high-end pop culture collectibles.
Today we're gonna talk through five collectibles ranging from $3,000 to $60,000.
[bright music] [dynamic music] This is the very first Super Mario Brothers released on the Nintendo Entertainment System.
This particular example would appraise for around $10,000.
This is a rare hang tab edition.
The back of it has a hang tab that's perforated, which is different from the subsequent models that came out.
And collectors find the hang tab very collectible.
This one is graded by CGC, which is also a comic book grader.
They've graded some of the most valuable comic books.
Anything 9.0 or greater is considered exceptional condition.
Super Mario Brothers is the most popular video game of all time.
There's been over 40 million copies sold.
Super Mario Brothers revived the video game industry.
After Atari, the video game console was starting to fail.
When the Nintendo Entertainment System came out, Mario in particular, it created a whole new level of interest.
The Holy Grail of Super Mario is a 9.8 sealed hang tab edition.
It sold for $2 million.
[bright music] This is a Sega Game Gear, released in 1991.
It's the very first release.
retailed at $149.99 at launch.
This is around $12,500.
This example is what we call Hobby Fresh.
It's never gone to market before, and it'll be interesting to see where it ends up.
This grade is the Holy Grail of Sega Game Gears.
It's graded by VGA.
It's a VGA 85.
Game Gear was Sega's answer to Nintendo's Game Boy.
The Game Boy was black and white.
The Sega Game Gear was in color.
Unlike Game Boy, you could actually play Game Gear in the dark because of the backlit screen.
The Sega Game Gear had popular titles like Sonic The Hedgehog and Streets of Rage.
Over 10.5 million units were sold of the Sega Game Gear.
It was one of the most popular portable gaming systems for years.
The Sega Game Gear is known for ripping through batteries.
But there was also a TV tuner that you could put on the top, allowed you to watch television stations on the portable console.
[dynamic music] This is the very first release of Ghostbusters on VHS, from 1985.
It retailed for $79.99.
79.99 was a very high price, but VHS was in its infancy, and the tapes were just very high.
It's dropped down a bit, but it's still in the four figures.
The first edition Ghostbusters has some unique features.
The logo on the front is an embossed logo.
On the back, it also has what we call waterfall watermarks.
These are vertical RCA white watermarks that resemble a waterfall.
VHS as a collectible is relatively new in the four and five figure numbers.
Some videotapes that have sold for a lot of money include Superman Black Box Edition.
This was a Betamax tape that sold for $40,000.
And some of the early release Rocky's have sold for significant amounts of money as well.
[dynamic music] This is an Apple iPod first release, first generation, from October, 2001.
It retailed for $399.
The last one that sold, sold for $29,000.
The first edition iPod is extremely rare in factory sealed condition.
It's become highly collectible through the years.
In collectibles, we have something called scarcity.
Just because something is rare doesn't make it collectible.
Scarce factors in demand, so something scarce is oftentimes collectible.
This is most definitely the Holy Grail iPod.
The first release, the five gigabyte version, and factory sealed.
It has a black and white screen.
It utilizes buttons as opposed to a click wheel.
And it stores around 1,000 songs.
Apple had been struggling up until the early 2000s, and this was the first handheld device that really helped the company turn a corner.
And it really launched Apple's handheld division to hew heights.
[upbeat music] This is a first release iPhone from 2007.
This model cost $599.
We have it between 50,000 and $60,000.
This model's eight gigabytes.
For the internet it used something called the Edge Network.
It was a very slow internet service.
And that was kind of the main difference for this first model compared to the subsequent models.
Factory sealed means the seal has not been broken, it's not been opened up.
You may have an iPhone at your house and think it could be worth a lot of money.
The reality is it's probably not.
There's a lot of them in the population.
And for that reason, they're not worth very much.
Steve Jobs introduced the phone at Macworld in January, 2007.
There was a lot of hype around it.
The most expensive item that we have sold is a first release iPhone from 2007.
It was the rare four gigabyte model.
The four gigabyte was discontinued after just two months in, and it went for $190,000.
An item that would just be a Holy Grail that we have not seen, if we were to have an unopened iPhone with a signature from Steve Jobs.
The sky would be the limit on something like that.
I've heard that he actually gave a signed edition iPad to his inner circle.
There are counterfeits that enter the market from time to time.
Collectors have to be very careful to make sure that all sides of the iPhone are shown.
The seal follows a very detailed pattern.
The use of the box underneath the seal, it should be in mint condition.
The seams along the side are very thin.
Those that are resealed, the counterfeiters never tend to get the seal right.
[upbeat music] My advice to those looking to get into collectibles is to collect what you like.
Do your homework in terms of pricing, previous sales history.
Some of the stuff is very, very expensive, so you want a good amount of knowledge before you dive in.
How the Disco Clam Uses Light to Fight Super-Strong Predators Architect Explains How Homes Could be 3D Printed on Mars and Earth Scientist Explains How Rare Genetics Allow Some to Sleep Only 4 Hours a Night Scientist Explains Unsinkable Metal That Could Prevent Disasters at Sea Is Invisibility Possible? An Inventor and a Physicist Explain Scientist Explains Why Her Lab Taught Rats to Drive Tiny Cars Mycologist Explains How a Slime Mold Can Solve Mazes How the Two-Hour Marathon Limit Was Broken Research Suggests Cats Like Their Owners as Much as Dogs Researcher Explains Deepfake Videos Scientist Explains How to Study the Metabolism of Ultra High Flying Geese Hurricane Hunter Explains How They Track and Predict Hurricanes Scientist Explains Viral Fish Cannon Video A Biohacker Explains Why He Turned His Leg Into a Hotspot Scientist Explains What Water Pooling in Kilauea's Volcanic Crater Means Bill Nye Explains the Science Behind Solar Sailing Vision Scientist Explains Why These Praying Mantises Are Wearing 3D Glasses Why Some Cities Are Banning Facial Recognition Technology Scientist's Map Explains Climate Change Scientist Explains How Moon Mining Would Work Scientist Explains How She Captured Rare Footage of a Giant Squid Doctor Explains How Sunscreen Affects Your Body Stranger Things is Getting a New Mall! But Today Malls Are Dying. What Happened? The Limits of Human Endurance Might Be Our Guts Meet the First College Students to Launch a Rocket Into Space Scientist Explains Why Dogs Can Smell Better Than Robots A Harvard Professor Explains What the Avengers Can Teach Us About Philosophy NASA Twin Study: How Space Changes Our Bodies What the Black Hole Picture Means for Researchers Scientist Explains How to Levitate Objects With Sound Why Scientists and Artists Want The Blackest Substances on Earth Biologist Explains How Drones Catching Whale "Snot" Helps Research Researcher Explains Why Humans Can't Spot Real-Life Deepfake Masks Doctor Explains What You Need to Know About The Coronavirus VFX Artist Breaks Down This Year's Best Visual Effects Nominees How Doctors on Earth Treated a Blood Clot in Space Scientist Explains Why Some Cats Eat Human Corpses Voting Expert Explains How Voting Technology Will Impact the 2020 Election Doctor Explains What You Need to Know About Pandemics ER Doctor Explains How They're Handling Covid-19 Why This Taste Map Is Wrong Q&A: What's Next for the Coronavirus Pandemic? Why Captive Tigers Can’t Be Reintroduced to the Wild How Covid-19 Immunity Compares to Other Diseases 5 Mistakes to Avoid as We Try to Stop Covid-19 How This Emergency Ventilator Could Keep Covid-19 Patients Alive Why NASA Made a Helicopter for Mars Theoretical Physicist Breaks Down the Marvel Multiverse Former NASA Astronaut Explains Jeff Bezos's Space Flight Physics Student Breaks Down Gymnastics Physics What Do Cities Look Like Under a Microscope? Inside the Largest Bitcoin Mine in The U.S.
How Caffeine Has Fueled History How Mushroom Time-Lapses Are Filmed Why You’ll Fail the Milk Crate Challenge Why Vegan Cheese Doesn't Melt How 250 Cameras Filmed Neill Blomkamp's Demonic How Meme Detectives Stop NFT Fraud How Disney Designed a Robotic Spider-Man How Online Conspiracy Groups Compare to Cults Dune Costume Designers Break Down Dune’s Stillsuits Korean Phrases You Missed in 'Squid Game' Why Scientists Are Stress Testing Tardigrades Every Prototype that Led to a Realistic Prosthetic Arm Why the Toilet Needs an Upgrade How Animals Are Evolving Because of Climate Change How Stop-Motion Movies Are Animated at Aardman Astronomer Explains How NASA Detects Asteroids Are We Living In A Simulation? Inside the Journey of a Shipping Container (And Why the Supply Chain Is So Backed Up) The Science of Slow Aging How Nose Swabs Detect New Covid-19 Strains Samsung S22 Ultra Explained in 3 Minutes The Science Behind Elon Musk’s Neuralink Brain Chip Every Prototype to Make a Humanoid Robot Chemist Breaks Down How At-Home Covid Tests Work A Timeline of Russian Cyberattacks on Ukraine VFX Artist Breaks Down Oscar-Nominated CGI Why Smartphone Night Photos Are So Good Now We Invented the Perfect WIRED Autocomplete Glue How Everything Everywhere All at Once's Visual Effects Were Made How Dogs Coevolved with Humans How an Architect Redesigns NYC Streets Viking Expert Breaks Down The Northman Weapons J. Kenji López-Alt Breaks Down the Science of Stir-Fry How A.I. Is Changing Hollywood How Trash Goes From Garbage Cans to Landfills Veterinarian Explains How to Prevent Pet Separation Anxiety The Science Behind Genetically Modified Mosquitoes How Scientists & Filmmakers Brought Prehistoric Planet's Dinosaurs to Life All the Ways Google Gets Street View Images How Public Cameras Recognize and Track You How the Nuro Robotic Delivery Car Was Built Biologist Explains the Unexpected Origins of Feathers in Fashion Surgeons Break Down Separating Conjoined Twins Former Air Force Pilot Breaks Down UFO Footage Bug Expert Explains Why Cicadas Are So Loud The Best of CES 2021 Health Expert Explains What You Need to Know About Quarantines Scientist Explains How People Might Hibernate Like Bears Could a Chernobyl Level Nuclear Disaster Happen in the US? Neuroscientist Explains ASMR's Effects on the Brain & The Body Why Top Scientists Are Pretending an Asteroid is Headed for Earth Epidemiologist Answers Common Monkeypox Questions Bill Nye Breaks Down Webb Telescope Space Images How This Humanoid Robot Diver Was Designed Every Trick a Pro GeoGuessr Player Uses to Win How NASA Biologists Plan to Grow Plants on the Moon How FIFA Graphics & Gameplay Are Evolving (1993 - 2023) How a Vet Performs Dangerous Surgeries on Wild Animals This Heart is Not Human How Entomologists Use Insects to Solve Crimes Former NASA Astronaut Breaks Down a Rocket Launch Chess Pro Explains How to Spot Cheaters Why Billionaires Are Actually Ruining the Economy How to Keep Your New Year’s Resolutions for More Than a Week The Biology Behind The Last of Us English Teacher Grades Homework By ChatGPT All the Ways a Cold Plunge Affects the Body Spy Historian Debunks Chinese Spy Balloon Theories A.I. Tries 20 Jobs | WIRED Mathematician Breaks Down the Best Ways to Win the Lottery Why Music Festivals Sound Better Than Ever Pro Interpreters vs. AI Challenge: Who Translates Faster and Better? Why The Average Human Couldn't Drive An F1 Car Atomic Expert Explains "Oppenheimer" Bomb Scenes Every 'Useless' Body Part Explained From Head to Toe How Pilots and Scientists Are Thinking About the Future of Air Travel How To Max Out At Every Fantasy Football Position (Ft. Matthew Berry) All The Ways Mt. Everest Can Kill You How Fat Bears Bulk Up To Hibernate (And Why We Love To See It) Why Vintage Tech Is So Valuable To Collectors 8 Photos That Tell The History of Humans In Space How Every Organ in Your Body Ages From Head to Toe Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
