Open Navigation Menu To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revisit this article, select My Account, then View saved stories Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons How Fat Bears Bulk Up To Hibernate (And Why We Love To See It) About Released on 10/04/2023 [Narrator] Every year something switches in the brains of these coastal brown bears.
Before they hibernate, they lose their ability to feel full and pack on hundreds of pounds.
In fact, it's become an annual competition to celebrate these fat bears.
This is 747 in summer, 2022, and this is 747 in October, 2022.
In the span of a few months, 747 and other bears like him at remote Katmai National Park are gaining 20 to 40% of their body weight.
And for bears, that's a good thing.
[gentle music] [bear vocalizing] Fat Bear Week is a celebration of success and resilience in our healthy population of brown bears.
It is a week-long March style madness bracket where the public gets to vote on their favorite fat bear.
[Narrator] Katmai has some of the fattest bears in the world because of a strong sockeye salmon population.
The salmon run lasts from late June through September allowing the bears to feast.
Sockeye salmon are very nutritious food.
They're actually pretty high calorie.
One sockeye salmon will contain anywhere between two to 5,000 calorie.
Bears in average, they might catch 10 fish per day.
If they are consuming the entire fish, they're getting anywhere between 20,000 and 50,000 calories per day.
[Narrator] And salmon is a good source of fat for bears looking to pack on the pounds.
They're actually going to focus on just the fattiest parts of the fish.
So the skin, the brains, the eggs in females.
They eat that, they strip the skin, they leave it, and then some other bears or other animals will pick off those carcasses.
There is one particular bear, bear 480 Otis, who was observed on the webcams to consume 45 salmon within a five-hour period.
[bear vocalizing] [Narrator] And bears are catching these fish at Brooks Falls.
But why are bears actually fishing? It has something to do with a metabolic process called hyperphagia.
Hyperphagia is a general term that basically denotes overeating.
The term can be applied to humans.
With bears, it means that there is a period of the year right before they go into hibernation in the fall where they're eating just as much as they possibly can in order to try and prepare for hibernation.
[Narrator] But bears are mysterious creatures.
Researchers still don't really understand why bears enter this state.
There's a few hormones that act as what we call satiety factors that tell the body that we're full.
A couple of the big ones are a hormone called leptin.
And leptin is released by adipose tissue, and that is something that helps tell our body like, Hey, we've got enough stored energy, so you don't need to eat anymore, you're full right now.
Another one is called ghrelin that's released by the stomach.
And it says, Hey, I'm full right now.
You should stop eating.
So their body's not telling them I'm full.
So they'll just keep on eating and eating without that feedback telling them to stop.
If they are not moving a lot, not working a lot, not using those muscles, then that energy is gonna be stored because they don't need to use it right then.
And the way that it's generally gonna be stored for bears is in adipose tissue.
So we're getting a lot of energy that is then being stored as fat as they prepare to go into hibernation so that they can use that through the winter.
[Narrator] Other animals such as hummingbirds enter hyperphagia before long migration periods.
But for most animals like humans or cats, hyperphagia is not a good thing.
Overeating can have a lot of negative health impacts.
You know, heart disease, diabetes, very well known.
All of these sorts of things can happen when you've got uncontrolled eating and that energy is not being used.
[Narrator] Bears then enter a hibernation period and go into dens at Katmai.
What hibernation really is, it's a reduction in the metabolic rate.
So the bear's not necessarily asleep.
In fact, they still have circadian rhythms where they will be sort of more active during the day, less active at night.
So they're still awake throughout this entire period.
Heart rate during hibernation I would think of as being in the 10 to 12 beats per minute.
They're just, their metabolism has been slowed down.
Their heart rate slows down, their respiration rate slows down.
Generally, they're not eating or drinking, urinating or defecating, though there are certainly exceptions to that.
[Narrator] Unlike some other hibernating animals, bears don't actually see too much of a drop in body temperature.
So a lot of the animals where hibernation was originally defined are some of the smaller mammals.
And they will drop their body temperature down closer to ambient temperature and hold very close to freezing.
But brown bears will have a body temperature of around 36, 37 degrees Celsius.
And then during hibernation, they're only dropping down to maybe 31 degrees Celsius, about a six degree drop in body temperature.
[Narrator] Bears can also give birth while in hibernation.
Usually they give birth from late December up until early February.
Their metabolic rate will increase, not all the way back up to active state, but it will increase quite a bit.
And then they give birth, and immediately after giving birth essentially, the metabolic rate will drop straight back down to a full hibernation period.
And the cubs will just kind of climb underneath mom, and they'll start nursing while mom continues to hibernate.
[Narrator] And all that fat that's been stored up helps them to survive a long winter.
Bears store all this fat going in hibernation so that they have energy so that they can survive through the winter.
They'll lose between 25 and 40% of their body weight over the winter.
That's gonna be higher for, like, females that give birth.
They're gonna be closer to the 40% range.
Some of the really large males tend to be closer to 25% range.
One interesting thing, that fat is not only giving them energy, it's also providing, so that the catabolism of fat also provides water.
So we mentioned that they're not drinking all winter long.
This is one way that their body is able to get a little bit of water since they're losing water constantly through respiration and stuff like that, they do need to offset that somehow.
And the catabolism of fat actually creates water that they're using as well.
Doing any of this type of work on bears can be very challenging.
Hibernation is fairly well studied physiological state.
Despite that, we still don't really know what triggers hibernation.
It's really tough to nail down precisely individual factors, particularly when a lot of times it's not one factor that's triggering it.
It's multiple things that are working in concert that might lead to bears changing physiological states like this.
[Narrator] So who will win this year's Fat Bear Competition? One of those big contenders is the reigning champion, 747.
He still looks really, really good.
When he came out of hibernation, I was fortunate enough to see him the first week of June.
And I was like, Oh my goodness.
This is a bear that lost one third of his body weight.
There's some other large males that are also looking really good.
Number 32 Chunk.
There are also some females that are in the running for it.
Bear 128 Grazer.
She is looking really, really good.
[bear vocalizing] How the Disco Clam Uses Light to Fight Super-Strong Predators Architect Explains How Homes Could be 3D Printed on Mars and Earth Scientist Explains How Rare Genetics Allow Some to Sleep Only 4 Hours a Night Scientist Explains Unsinkable Metal That Could Prevent Disasters at Sea Is Invisibility Possible? An Inventor and a Physicist Explain Scientist Explains Why Her Lab Taught Rats to Drive Tiny Cars Mycologist Explains How a Slime Mold Can Solve Mazes How the Two-Hour Marathon Limit Was Broken Research Suggests Cats Like Their Owners as Much as Dogs Researcher Explains Deepfake Videos Scientist Explains How to Study the Metabolism of Ultra High Flying Geese Hurricane Hunter Explains How They Track and Predict Hurricanes Scientist Explains Viral Fish Cannon Video A Biohacker Explains Why He Turned His Leg Into a Hotspot Scientist Explains What Water Pooling in Kilauea's Volcanic Crater Means Bill Nye Explains the Science Behind Solar Sailing Vision Scientist Explains Why These Praying Mantises Are Wearing 3D Glasses Why Some Cities Are Banning Facial Recognition Technology Scientist's Map Explains Climate Change Scientist Explains How Moon Mining Would Work Scientist Explains How She Captured Rare Footage of a Giant Squid Doctor Explains How Sunscreen Affects Your Body Stranger Things is Getting a New Mall! But Today Malls Are Dying. What Happened? The Limits of Human Endurance Might Be Our Guts Meet the First College Students to Launch a Rocket Into Space Scientist Explains Why Dogs Can Smell Better Than Robots A Harvard Professor Explains What the Avengers Can Teach Us About Philosophy NASA Twin Study: How Space Changes Our Bodies What the Black Hole Picture Means for Researchers Scientist Explains How to Levitate Objects With Sound Why Scientists and Artists Want The Blackest Substances on Earth Biologist Explains How Drones Catching Whale "Snot" Helps Research Researcher Explains Why Humans Can't Spot Real-Life Deepfake Masks Doctor Explains What You Need to Know About The Coronavirus VFX Artist Breaks Down This Year's Best Visual Effects Nominees How Doctors on Earth Treated a Blood Clot in Space Scientist Explains Why Some Cats Eat Human Corpses Voting Expert Explains How Voting Technology Will Impact the 2020 Election Doctor Explains What You Need to Know About Pandemics ER Doctor Explains How They're Handling Covid-19 Why This Taste Map Is Wrong Q&A: What's Next for the Coronavirus Pandemic? Why Captive Tigers Can’t Be Reintroduced to the Wild How Covid-19 Immunity Compares to Other Diseases 5 Mistakes to Avoid as We Try to Stop Covid-19 How This Emergency Ventilator Could Keep Covid-19 Patients Alive Why NASA Made a Helicopter for Mars Theoretical Physicist Breaks Down the Marvel Multiverse Former NASA Astronaut Explains Jeff Bezos's Space Flight Physics Student Breaks Down Gymnastics Physics What Do Cities Look Like Under a Microscope? Inside the Largest Bitcoin Mine in The U.S.
How Caffeine Has Fueled History How Mushroom Time-Lapses Are Filmed Why You’ll Fail the Milk Crate Challenge Why Vegan Cheese Doesn't Melt How 250 Cameras Filmed Neill Blomkamp's Demonic How Meme Detectives Stop NFT Fraud How Disney Designed a Robotic Spider-Man How Online Conspiracy Groups Compare to Cults Dune Costume Designers Break Down Dune’s Stillsuits Korean Phrases You Missed in 'Squid Game' Why Scientists Are Stress Testing Tardigrades Every Prototype that Led to a Realistic Prosthetic Arm Why the Toilet Needs an Upgrade How Animals Are Evolving Because of Climate Change How Stop-Motion Movies Are Animated at Aardman Astronomer Explains How NASA Detects Asteroids Are We Living In A Simulation? Inside the Journey of a Shipping Container (And Why the Supply Chain Is So Backed Up) The Science of Slow Aging How Nose Swabs Detect New Covid-19 Strains Samsung S22 Ultra Explained in 3 Minutes The Science Behind Elon Musk’s Neuralink Brain Chip Every Prototype to Make a Humanoid Robot Chemist Breaks Down How At-Home Covid Tests Work A Timeline of Russian Cyberattacks on Ukraine VFX Artist Breaks Down Oscar-Nominated CGI Why Smartphone Night Photos Are So Good Now We Invented the Perfect WIRED Autocomplete Glue How Everything Everywhere All at Once's Visual Effects Were Made How Dogs Coevolved with Humans How an Architect Redesigns NYC Streets Viking Expert Breaks Down The Northman Weapons J. Kenji López-Alt Breaks Down the Science of Stir-Fry How A.I. Is Changing Hollywood How Trash Goes From Garbage Cans to Landfills Veterinarian Explains How to Prevent Pet Separation Anxiety The Science Behind Genetically Modified Mosquitoes How Scientists & Filmmakers Brought Prehistoric Planet's Dinosaurs to Life All the Ways Google Gets Street View Images How Public Cameras Recognize and Track You How the Nuro Robotic Delivery Car Was Built Biologist Explains the Unexpected Origins of Feathers in Fashion Surgeons Break Down Separating Conjoined Twins Former Air Force Pilot Breaks Down UFO Footage Bug Expert Explains Why Cicadas Are So Loud The Best of CES 2021 Health Expert Explains What You Need to Know About Quarantines Scientist Explains How People Might Hibernate Like Bears Could a Chernobyl Level Nuclear Disaster Happen in the US? Neuroscientist Explains ASMR's Effects on the Brain & The Body Why Top Scientists Are Pretending an Asteroid is Headed for Earth Epidemiologist Answers Common Monkeypox Questions Bill Nye Breaks Down Webb Telescope Space Images How This Humanoid Robot Diver Was Designed Every Trick a Pro GeoGuessr Player Uses to Win How NASA Biologists Plan to Grow Plants on the Moon How FIFA Graphics & Gameplay Are Evolving (1993 - 2023) How a Vet Performs Dangerous Surgeries on Wild Animals This Heart is Not Human How Entomologists Use Insects to Solve Crimes Former NASA Astronaut Breaks Down a Rocket Launch Chess Pro Explains How to Spot Cheaters Why Billionaires Are Actually Ruining the Economy How to Keep Your New Year’s Resolutions for More Than a Week The Biology Behind The Last of Us English Teacher Grades Homework By ChatGPT All the Ways a Cold Plunge Affects the Body Spy Historian Debunks Chinese Spy Balloon Theories A.I. Tries 20 Jobs | WIRED Mathematician Breaks Down the Best Ways to Win the Lottery Why Music Festivals Sound Better Than Ever Pro Interpreters vs. AI Challenge: Who Translates Faster and Better? Why The Average Human Couldn't Drive An F1 Car Atomic Expert Explains "Oppenheimer" Bomb Scenes Every 'Useless' Body Part Explained From Head to Toe How Pilots and Scientists Are Thinking About the Future of Air Travel How To Max Out At Every Fantasy Football Position (Ft. Matthew Berry) All The Ways Mt. Everest Can Kill You How Fat Bears Bulk Up To Hibernate (And Why We Love To See It) Why Vintage Tech Is So Valuable To Collectors 8 Photos That Tell The History of Humans In Space How Every Organ in Your Body Ages From Head to Toe Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
