Open Navigation Menu To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revisit this article, select My Account, then View saved stories Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons How Pilots and Scientists Are Thinking About the Future of Air Travel About Released on 08/24/2023 [Pilot] Attention, passengers.
Please return to your seats and fasten your seatbelt.
[Narrator] You know what that likely means, turbulence.
And if you've been getting on a plane recently, it feels like turbulence has been getting a lot worse.
[passengers screaming] So what does this mean for the future of travel? In a few decades time looks a lot more turbulent with hundreds of percent more severe clear air turbulence in those skies.
[Narrator] And how are pilots reacting to more and more rough air? So we slow down just a little bit to reach that maneuvering air speed, so that it doesn't get bounced around as much.
[gentle music] [Narrator] First, we need to understand just exactly what turbulence is.
Turbulence is a chaotic random motion that occurs in all fluids.
It's around us all the time.
It's in your bathtub, it's in your cup of coffee, and of course it's in the atmosphere.
[Narrator] There are a bunch of different types of turbulence, but in particular we're going to talk about CAT.
[cat meowing] No, not that kind of cat, but Clear Air Turbulence.
CAT is the particular type of turbulence that is getting worse because of climate change.
And since it involves clear air in the jet streams, it cannot be detected by radar before a plane is in it.
Clear air turbulence is generated by wind shear in the jet stream.
Anyone who's ever climbed a tall building, for example, the Eiffel Tower, very calm at the bottom, but the higher up you go, the windier it gets, and that increase in wind speed with heights is what's called wind shear.
When the wind shear is too strong, the atmosphere simply can't contain that and it breaks down into turbulence as a result.
[Narrator] There are different levels of turbulence.
You have light, moderate, severe, and extreme.
Severe turbulence is turbulence in which the up and downward motions of the aircraft will experience vertical accelerations that exceed 1G.
Around 5,000 aircraft annually encounter severe turbulence in the US causing hundreds of injuries to passengers and flight attendants.
This severe injury causing turbulence is rare, but of course, multiply that by all the planes that are in the skies at any given moment and one of them will encounter that severe turbulence.
[Narrator] For pilots, turbulence is about maintaining passenger comfort and trying to figure out where turbulence could potentially be and then circumnavigating it.
So the forces on an aircraft are lift, weight, thrust, and drag, and air is a fluid, it's keeping it airborne suspended at in flight at all times, and turbulence is like a minor disturbance in the middle of it.
[Narrator] How is climate change making turbulence worse? What our satellites can see is the three dimensional shape and structure of the jet stream, and they've been measuring that for at least four decades.
There's an amplification of the warming in the tropical parts of the planet, and that effect is increasing the north to south temperature difference across the jet stream, and that's driving stronger wind shear in the jet stream which is generating more clear air turbulence.
So that's the link from temperatures to winds shear to turbulence.
[Narrator] This is what turbulence looked like in 1979, and this is what turbulence looked like in recent years.
We see the same pattern except that the hotspots are even hotter today.
There's greater likelihood of encountering clear air turbulence in those hotspots.
50 or 60% more turbulence in some regions.
[Narrator] And this is what turbulence could look like if global warming continues.
What we are looking at here is supercomputer simulations of the atmosphere.
Now the simulation on the left is our control simulation, whereas the simulation on the right is one in which we've increased the carbon dioxide to describe what a future real world might look like with a lot more turbulence in the skies that we fly through.
What we find is that there's a doubling, or perhaps even a tripling, of the amount of severe clear air turbulence in the atmosphere.
So the future in a few decades time looks a lot more turbulent with hundreds of percent more severe clear air turbulence in those skies.
[Narrator] And where will those hotspots particularly be? There's 55% more severe turbulence over the North Atlantic than there was in the 1970s.
41% more over the US and similar figures around the world.
That's the the definitive evidence really that clear air turbulence has already started to get stronger.
[Narrator] So what does this mean for air travel, in particular over areas like North America and the North Atlantic? We're certainly projecting a doubling or a tripling in the amount of turbulence in a few decades time, but that will just mean that we go from 0.1% of the atmosphere having severe turbulence in it to 0.2 or 0.3%, and that's certainly not going to mean we're gonna have to shut down parts of air space and say there's too much turbulence.
I don't think that's on the cards really.
It's just a case of turbulence becoming more frequent, and pilots needing to keep even closer tabs than they already do on where the turbulence is and trying to avoid it as best as they can.
[Narrator] For pilots, this means relying on programs like WSI Pilotbrief and SkyPath to plan out flight routes.
[Andrea] You're looking at a god's eye view of our route of flight.
The various hazards along the way are those big green circles and then the red boxes.
If you look at the bottom half of the screen, that's a vertical profile.
You'll see that toward the end, if it stayed at 33,000 feet it would encounter that big yellow and orange section of turbulence.
And that's why in this case, this aircraft has chosen to climb all the way up to 39,000 feet to try to avoid it.
[Narrator] Pilots also use SkyPath, which crowdsource turbulence data from other flights.
[Machine] Caution turbulence detected.
[Andrea] The yellow dots means they're encountering light turbulence along the way.
And you can see that if you hover over any individual dot like that orange dot there, it'll show you you're gonna encounter moderate turbulence at flight level 400 or 40,000 feet.
[Narrator] With this information in mind, pilots can decide to circumnavigate turbulence, for example, by adjusting altitude.
Clear air turbulence caused by jet streams tends to be due to a very narrow band of air that's moving very rapidly.
That narrow band of air may only only be 2000, 3,000 feet thick, and if that's the case, then you can just climb or descend a couple thousand feet and be out of it right away.
So when we encounter clear air turbulence the very first thing we'll do, of course, is turn the seatbelt sign on, make sure we call back to the flight attendants, and make sure they're either seated if it's bad enough, or that they're checking the passengers are seated if it's not bad enough.
We'll talk to air traffic control right away.
We'll figure out what the planes ahead of us are seeing and if they're doing any better at any other altitude, so we can climb or descend immediately.
[Narrator] And for pilots, this also means going as fast as safely possible to get through turbulence.
Most of the time when we're flying through clear air turbulence, we're gonna keep the auto flight systems on.
Oftentimes, the auto throttles though in severe turbulence are recommended to be turned off.
And the reason why is because those thrust levers will be chasing around airspeeds pretty rapidly and it's not necessarily good for the engines.
It's better just to leave them in one steady place and hope that the airspeed is not chasing itself.
[Narrator] When pilots are in turbulence, they tend to go out maneuvering air speed.
What that is, is the fastest speed that you can fly, have full deflection of your control surfaces, and not structurally damage the aircraft.
So we slow down just a little bit to reach that maneuvering air speed so that it doesn't get bounced around as much and that we can go through at the quickest we can without bouncing around the passengers too much.
The airlines are constantly changing to adapt to our dynamic and changing air travel environment.
So if climate conditions make turbulence worse, then we will continue to evolve and make sure that turbulence procedures are reflected in that, even if that means different procedures to avoid it in the first place.
I specialize in turbulence.
I study it every day, I have done for 20 years.
But even for me, when I fly through turbulence I feel that energy in my stomach, my heart racing.
It just plugs into a very primitive part of our brains that logic can't override.
And I tell myself, I understand.
You know, this is why I study.
I'm perfectly safe.
It doesn't help.
A tip I heard recently is to order a drink and just put the drink in front of you and watch how still the water surface is in turbulence because the emotions are a lot less severe than you think.
How the Disco Clam Uses Light to Fight Super-Strong Predators Architect Explains How Homes Could be 3D Printed on Mars and Earth Scientist Explains How Rare Genetics Allow Some to Sleep Only 4 Hours a Night Scientist Explains Unsinkable Metal That Could Prevent Disasters at Sea Is Invisibility Possible? An Inventor and a Physicist Explain Scientist Explains Why Her Lab Taught Rats to Drive Tiny Cars Mycologist Explains How a Slime Mold Can Solve Mazes How the Two-Hour Marathon Limit Was Broken Research Suggests Cats Like Their Owners as Much as Dogs Researcher Explains Deepfake Videos Scientist Explains How to Study the Metabolism of Ultra High Flying Geese Hurricane Hunter Explains How They Track and Predict Hurricanes Scientist Explains Viral Fish Cannon Video A Biohacker Explains Why He Turned His Leg Into a Hotspot Scientist Explains What Water Pooling in Kilauea's Volcanic Crater Means Bill Nye Explains the Science Behind Solar Sailing Vision Scientist Explains Why These Praying Mantises Are Wearing 3D Glasses Why Some Cities Are Banning Facial Recognition Technology Scientist's Map Explains Climate Change Scientist Explains How Moon Mining Would Work Scientist Explains How She Captured Rare Footage of a Giant Squid Doctor Explains How Sunscreen Affects Your Body Stranger Things is Getting a New Mall! But Today Malls Are Dying. What Happened? The Limits of Human Endurance Might Be Our Guts Meet the First College Students to Launch a Rocket Into Space Scientist Explains Why Dogs Can Smell Better Than Robots A Harvard Professor Explains What the Avengers Can Teach Us About Philosophy NASA Twin Study: How Space Changes Our Bodies What the Black Hole Picture Means for Researchers Scientist Explains How to Levitate Objects With Sound Why Scientists and Artists Want The Blackest Substances on Earth Biologist Explains How Drones Catching Whale "Snot" Helps Research Researcher Explains Why Humans Can't Spot Real-Life Deepfake Masks Doctor Explains What You Need to Know About The Coronavirus VFX Artist Breaks Down This Year's Best Visual Effects Nominees How Doctors on Earth Treated a Blood Clot in Space Scientist Explains Why Some Cats Eat Human Corpses Voting Expert Explains How Voting Technology Will Impact the 2020 Election Doctor Explains What You Need to Know About Pandemics ER Doctor Explains How They're Handling Covid-19 Why This Taste Map Is Wrong Q&A: What's Next for the Coronavirus Pandemic? Why Captive Tigers Can’t Be Reintroduced to the Wild How Covid-19 Immunity Compares to Other Diseases 5 Mistakes to Avoid as We Try to Stop Covid-19 How This Emergency Ventilator Could Keep Covid-19 Patients Alive Why NASA Made a Helicopter for Mars Theoretical Physicist Breaks Down the Marvel Multiverse Former NASA Astronaut Explains Jeff Bezos's Space Flight Physics Student Breaks Down Gymnastics Physics What Do Cities Look Like Under a Microscope? Inside the Largest Bitcoin Mine in The U.S.
How Caffeine Has Fueled History How Mushroom Time-Lapses Are Filmed Why You’ll Fail the Milk Crate Challenge Why Vegan Cheese Doesn't Melt How 250 Cameras Filmed Neill Blomkamp's Demonic How Meme Detectives Stop NFT Fraud How Disney Designed a Robotic Spider-Man How Online Conspiracy Groups Compare to Cults Dune Costume Designers Break Down Dune’s Stillsuits Korean Phrases You Missed in 'Squid Game' Why Scientists Are Stress Testing Tardigrades Every Prototype that Led to a Realistic Prosthetic Arm Why the Toilet Needs an Upgrade How Animals Are Evolving Because of Climate Change How Stop-Motion Movies Are Animated at Aardman Astronomer Explains How NASA Detects Asteroids Are We Living In A Simulation? Inside the Journey of a Shipping Container (And Why the Supply Chain Is So Backed Up) The Science of Slow Aging How Nose Swabs Detect New Covid-19 Strains Samsung S22 Ultra Explained in 3 Minutes The Science Behind Elon Musk’s Neuralink Brain Chip Every Prototype to Make a Humanoid Robot Chemist Breaks Down How At-Home Covid Tests Work A Timeline of Russian Cyberattacks on Ukraine VFX Artist Breaks Down Oscar-Nominated CGI Why Smartphone Night Photos Are So Good Now We Invented the Perfect WIRED Autocomplete Glue How Everything Everywhere All at Once's Visual Effects Were Made How Dogs Coevolved with Humans How an Architect Redesigns NYC Streets Viking Expert Breaks Down The Northman Weapons J. Kenji López-Alt Breaks Down the Science of Stir-Fry How A.I. Is Changing Hollywood How Trash Goes From Garbage Cans to Landfills Veterinarian Explains How to Prevent Pet Separation Anxiety The Science Behind Genetically Modified Mosquitoes How Scientists & Filmmakers Brought Prehistoric Planet's Dinosaurs to Life All the Ways Google Gets Street View Images How Public Cameras Recognize and Track You How the Nuro Robotic Delivery Car Was Built Biologist Explains the Unexpected Origins of Feathers in Fashion Surgeons Break Down Separating Conjoined Twins Former Air Force Pilot Breaks Down UFO Footage Bug Expert Explains Why Cicadas Are So Loud The Best of CES 2021 Health Expert Explains What You Need to Know About Quarantines Scientist Explains How People Might Hibernate Like Bears Could a Chernobyl Level Nuclear Disaster Happen in the US? Neuroscientist Explains ASMR's Effects on the Brain & The Body Why Top Scientists Are Pretending an Asteroid is Headed for Earth Epidemiologist Answers Common Monkeypox Questions Bill Nye Breaks Down Webb Telescope Space Images How This Humanoid Robot Diver Was Designed Every Trick a Pro GeoGuessr Player Uses to Win How NASA Biologists Plan to Grow Plants on the Moon How FIFA Graphics & Gameplay Are Evolving (1993 - 2023) How a Vet Performs Dangerous Surgeries on Wild Animals This Heart is Not Human How Entomologists Use Insects to Solve Crimes Former NASA Astronaut Breaks Down a Rocket Launch Chess Pro Explains How to Spot Cheaters Why Billionaires Are Actually Ruining the Economy How to Keep Your New Year’s Resolutions for More Than a Week The Biology Behind The Last of Us English Teacher Grades Homework By ChatGPT All the Ways a Cold Plunge Affects the Body Spy Historian Debunks Chinese Spy Balloon Theories A.I. Tries 20 Jobs | WIRED Mathematician Breaks Down the Best Ways to Win the Lottery Why Music Festivals Sound Better Than Ever Pro Interpreters vs. AI Challenge: Who Translates Faster and Better? Why The Average Human Couldn't Drive An F1 Car Atomic Expert Explains "Oppenheimer" Bomb Scenes Every 'Useless' Body Part Explained From Head to Toe How Pilots and Scientists Are Thinking About the Future of Air Travel How To Max Out At Every Fantasy Football Position (Ft. Matthew Berry) All The Ways Mt. Everest Can Kill You How Fat Bears Bulk Up To Hibernate (And Why We Love To See It) Why Vintage Tech Is So Valuable To Collectors 8 Photos That Tell The History of Humans In Space How Every Organ in Your Body Ages From Head to Toe Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
