Open Navigation Menu To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revisit this article, select My Account, then View saved stories Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons How To Max Out At Every Fantasy Football Position (Ft. Matthew Berry) About Released on 09/04/2023 There is absolutely a strategy to draft your fantasy football team specifically with each of the positions.
If you listen to me and you pay attention throughout the year, you'll have a shot at the title, by the end.
[Host] Roughly 40 million people play fantasy football and Matthew Barry is the absolute expert.
So my name is Matthew Barry and my official title is Senior Fantasy and Sports Betting Analyst for NBC Sports and Peacock.
I'm often referred to the Godfather of Fantasy Football.
[Host] Matthew Berry is gonna take us position by position, highlighting what stats make a successful fantasy option.
[upbeat music] When it comes to quarterbacks in general, what you want is dual threat quarterbacks.
Quarterbacks that not only get you fantasy points with their arm, but with their legs.
Last season of the top six quarterbacks in fantasy points per game, four of them had 700 or more rushing yards and in fact, eight of the top 10 fantasy quarterbacks in points per game last year had at least 350 yards.
You really want a dual threat quarterback because if they don't get you fantasy points with their legs you need them to have 40 passing touchdown upside and there just aren't a lot of quarterbacks like that in the NFL right now.
I also think it's important to understand tiers, Josh Allen, Patrick Mahomes, and Jalen Hurts are kind of the elite top three, but there's a clear top eight quarterbacks.
What you really want is quarterbacks that run and throw that have talents around them.
You can be the best quarterback in the world, but if you've got the worst offensive line, it's hard to throw from your back.
Josh Allen's a great example.
Josh Allen had a bad completion percentage.
They said he was more of a runner than a thrower.
Year three, Josh Allen gets Stefon Diggs, one of the best wide receivers in the NFL.
What happens, he becomes the number one quarterback in fantasy, everyone talks about his accuracy and elite passing.
Did Josh suddenly become a better quarterback? Yes he did.
Having Stefon Diggs to throw to, makes you a better quarterback.
[upbeat music] For the running back position, volume is key, the top five running backs in fantasy points per game last season all had at least 310 touches, 16 of the top 20 had at least 250 touches, all finished as top 20 running backs in fantasy points per game.
The next thing is what kind of touches are they getting? Specifically, we want to look for high value touches, receptions and red zone touches.
Are they getting the ball when the team gets inside their opponent's 20 yard line, that's the red zone.
Are they getting it in goal to go situations which is inside and opponent's 10 yards? So ideally you want running backs that touch the ball a lot and that they touch the ball a lot when they get close to the goal line and they touch the ball a lot from their quarterback, not just on first and second down but also on third down as part of the pass attack.
[upbeat music] In terms of wide receiver, that's somebody that is earning a high percentage of targets, target share and targets for routes run.
Wide receivers need to have the ability to earn targets by getting open.
The actual best wide receivers in the NFL tend to be the ones who score the most fantasy points.
Justin Jefferson, Jamar Chase, Cooper Kupp, Tyreek kill, Stefon Diggs, those guys are the best wide receivers in the NFL and they also are the ones who score the most fantasy points.
If you want some efficiency metrics, if you want to get a little bit dirty, target share, targets per route run, yards per route run are all good efficiency metrics for wide receivers, wide receivers tend to be safer early round picks due to consistency and lower injury risk.
When you think about it, running backs are being tackled hard.
They're going in between the pile, wide receivers they bounce out of bounds, they're being hit by a defensive back, not a defensive lineman.
Wide receivers tend to have a lower injury risk.
I also like rookies by the way, look at the second half rookie wide receivers, there's a number of talented wide receivers, they might starts slow as rookies, but over the second half of the year will have a huge impact.
You think about last year with guys like Garrett Wilson, Chris Olave, Jahan Dotson at times that's another place to look for as you get further into the season.
[upbeat music] And then at the tight end position, what you want is you want see how many snaps.
are they out on a passing flight? Are they used primarily as a blocker? Are they used as a passer? Sometimes they're really just glorified wide receivers.
What's their opportunity? We can look at talent, if they have a good quarterback.
Is the tight end used more as a blocker in this offense or is the tight end used as a passing weapon in the offense? Generally speaking, I either want to be one of the first people in my league to get a tight end or one of the last, because having an elite tight end can be a huge advantage.
Travis Kelce, Mark Andrews TJ Hockenson, for me are those top three.
I think they stand up above the rest.
[upbeat music] We've spent a lot of time looking at trying to predict kickers scoring and kicker scoring year over year over year and generally speaking the best kicker in fantasy football and like the 12th kicker in fantasy football, the difference is like one and a half points a game.
There's just not much difference.
There's a lot of variance.
You like kickers on good offenses, you like kickers that play indoors in warm weather cities so they're not often kicking in bad weather.
You can look at defenses that give up the most field goals that have good red zone defense but bad defense in the middle of the field, kind of the bend don't break defenses, their teams will come down and they often will kick potentially speaking, it doesn't make sense to draft a kicker before the last round.
[upbeat music] With defenses, you can predict something.
You can predict, hey, this is a team that likes to blitz a lot.
So probably they'll generate some sacks maybe a few more turnovers.
But honestly it's generally fairly flukey.
If you look at defensive scoring year after year it rarely carries forward from season to season.
So streaming is always a a much better option than saying I'm gonna go out to target this.
There are defenses that we think are gonna be pretty good, the Eagles and the Niners, but you're often better off of just picking the defense that's playing inept offense week after week.
[Host] Now that You have your team built, let's get to the most important part.
A fantasy team name is very important, this is not a decision to take lightly.
The team name should reflect your personality and ideally insult somebody else in your league.
Fantasy football, there is no one right way to play.
There is no one right way to draft.
Ultimately, you have to figure out what works for you and do what you want to do.
[upbeat music] How the Disco Clam Uses Light to Fight Super-Strong Predators Architect Explains How Homes Could be 3D Printed on Mars and Earth Scientist Explains How Rare Genetics Allow Some to Sleep Only 4 Hours a Night Scientist Explains Unsinkable Metal That Could Prevent Disasters at Sea Is Invisibility Possible? An Inventor and a Physicist Explain Scientist Explains Why Her Lab Taught Rats to Drive Tiny Cars Mycologist Explains How a Slime Mold Can Solve Mazes How the Two-Hour Marathon Limit Was Broken Research Suggests Cats Like Their Owners as Much as Dogs Researcher Explains Deepfake Videos Scientist Explains How to Study the Metabolism of Ultra High Flying Geese Hurricane Hunter Explains How They Track and Predict Hurricanes Scientist Explains Viral Fish Cannon Video A Biohacker Explains Why He Turned His Leg Into a Hotspot Scientist Explains What Water Pooling in Kilauea's Volcanic Crater Means Bill Nye Explains the Science Behind Solar Sailing Vision Scientist Explains Why These Praying Mantises Are Wearing 3D Glasses Why Some Cities Are Banning Facial Recognition Technology Scientist's Map Explains Climate Change Scientist Explains How Moon Mining Would Work Scientist Explains How She Captured Rare Footage of a Giant Squid Doctor Explains How Sunscreen Affects Your Body Stranger Things is Getting a New Mall! But Today Malls Are Dying. What Happened? The Limits of Human Endurance Might Be Our Guts Meet the First College Students to Launch a Rocket Into Space Scientist Explains Why Dogs Can Smell Better Than Robots A Harvard Professor Explains What the Avengers Can Teach Us About Philosophy NASA Twin Study: How Space Changes Our Bodies What the Black Hole Picture Means for Researchers Scientist Explains How to Levitate Objects With Sound Why Scientists and Artists Want The Blackest Substances on Earth Biologist Explains How Drones Catching Whale "Snot" Helps Research Researcher Explains Why Humans Can't Spot Real-Life Deepfake Masks Doctor Explains What You Need to Know About The Coronavirus VFX Artist Breaks Down This Year's Best Visual Effects Nominees How Doctors on Earth Treated a Blood Clot in Space Scientist Explains Why Some Cats Eat Human Corpses Voting Expert Explains How Voting Technology Will Impact the 2020 Election Doctor Explains What You Need to Know About Pandemics ER Doctor Explains How They're Handling Covid-19 Why This Taste Map Is Wrong Q&A: What's Next for the Coronavirus Pandemic? Why Captive Tigers Can’t Be Reintroduced to the Wild How Covid-19 Immunity Compares to Other Diseases 5 Mistakes to Avoid as We Try to Stop Covid-19 How This Emergency Ventilator Could Keep Covid-19 Patients Alive Why NASA Made a Helicopter for Mars Theoretical Physicist Breaks Down the Marvel Multiverse Former NASA Astronaut Explains Jeff Bezos's Space Flight Physics Student Breaks Down Gymnastics Physics What Do Cities Look Like Under a Microscope? Inside the Largest Bitcoin Mine in The U.S.
How Caffeine Has Fueled History How Mushroom Time-Lapses Are Filmed Why You’ll Fail the Milk Crate Challenge Why Vegan Cheese Doesn't Melt How 250 Cameras Filmed Neill Blomkamp's Demonic How Meme Detectives Stop NFT Fraud How Disney Designed a Robotic Spider-Man How Online Conspiracy Groups Compare to Cults Dune Costume Designers Break Down Dune’s Stillsuits Korean Phrases You Missed in 'Squid Game' Why Scientists Are Stress Testing Tardigrades Every Prototype that Led to a Realistic Prosthetic Arm Why the Toilet Needs an Upgrade How Animals Are Evolving Because of Climate Change How Stop-Motion Movies Are Animated at Aardman Astronomer Explains How NASA Detects Asteroids Are We Living In A Simulation? Inside the Journey of a Shipping Container (And Why the Supply Chain Is So Backed Up) The Science of Slow Aging How Nose Swabs Detect New Covid-19 Strains Samsung S22 Ultra Explained in 3 Minutes The Science Behind Elon Musk’s Neuralink Brain Chip Every Prototype to Make a Humanoid Robot Chemist Breaks Down How At-Home Covid Tests Work A Timeline of Russian Cyberattacks on Ukraine VFX Artist Breaks Down Oscar-Nominated CGI Why Smartphone Night Photos Are So Good Now We Invented the Perfect WIRED Autocomplete Glue How Everything Everywhere All at Once's Visual Effects Were Made How Dogs Coevolved with Humans How an Architect Redesigns NYC Streets Viking Expert Breaks Down The Northman Weapons J. Kenji López-Alt Breaks Down the Science of Stir-Fry How A.I. Is Changing Hollywood How Trash Goes From Garbage Cans to Landfills Veterinarian Explains How to Prevent Pet Separation Anxiety The Science Behind Genetically Modified Mosquitoes How Scientists & Filmmakers Brought Prehistoric Planet's Dinosaurs to Life All the Ways Google Gets Street View Images How Public Cameras Recognize and Track You How the Nuro Robotic Delivery Car Was Built Biologist Explains the Unexpected Origins of Feathers in Fashion Surgeons Break Down Separating Conjoined Twins Former Air Force Pilot Breaks Down UFO Footage Bug Expert Explains Why Cicadas Are So Loud The Best of CES 2021 Health Expert Explains What You Need to Know About Quarantines Scientist Explains How People Might Hibernate Like Bears Could a Chernobyl Level Nuclear Disaster Happen in the US? Neuroscientist Explains ASMR's Effects on the Brain & The Body Why Top Scientists Are Pretending an Asteroid is Headed for Earth Epidemiologist Answers Common Monkeypox Questions Bill Nye Breaks Down Webb Telescope Space Images How This Humanoid Robot Diver Was Designed Every Trick a Pro GeoGuessr Player Uses to Win How NASA Biologists Plan to Grow Plants on the Moon How FIFA Graphics & Gameplay Are Evolving (1993 - 2023) How a Vet Performs Dangerous Surgeries on Wild Animals This Heart is Not Human How Entomologists Use Insects to Solve Crimes Former NASA Astronaut Breaks Down a Rocket Launch Chess Pro Explains How to Spot Cheaters Why Billionaires Are Actually Ruining the Economy How to Keep Your New Year’s Resolutions for More Than a Week The Biology Behind The Last of Us English Teacher Grades Homework By ChatGPT All the Ways a Cold Plunge Affects the Body Spy Historian Debunks Chinese Spy Balloon Theories A.I. Tries 20 Jobs | WIRED Mathematician Breaks Down the Best Ways to Win the Lottery Why Music Festivals Sound Better Than Ever Pro Interpreters vs. AI Challenge: Who Translates Faster and Better? Why The Average Human Couldn't Drive An F1 Car Atomic Expert Explains "Oppenheimer" Bomb Scenes Every 'Useless' Body Part Explained From Head to Toe How Pilots and Scientists Are Thinking About the Future of Air Travel How To Max Out At Every Fantasy Football Position (Ft. Matthew Berry) All The Ways Mt. Everest Can Kill You How Fat Bears Bulk Up To Hibernate (And Why We Love To See It) Why Vintage Tech Is So Valuable To Collectors 8 Photos That Tell The History of Humans In Space How Every Organ in Your Body Ages From Head to Toe Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
