Open Navigation Menu To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revisit this article, select My Account, then View saved stories Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Gregory Barber Staff Writer Gregory Barber is a staff writer at WIRED covering energy and the environment. He graduated from Columbia University with a bachelor’s degree in computer science and English literature and now lives in San Francisco.
X Business Why Teslas Totaled in the US Are Mysteriously Reincarnated in Ukraine Business Google DeepMind’s AI Weather Forecaster Handily Beats a Global Standard Business The First Small-Scale Nuclear Plant in the US Died Before It Could Live Culture Everyone Is a Luddite Now Business The Annular Solar Eclipse Will Decimate US Solar Energy Output Business AI Hurricane Predictions Are Storming the World of Weather Forecasting Business Your New Apple Watch Won’t Be Carbon Neutral Business Big Batteries Are Booming. So Are Fears They'll Catch Fire Backchannel The Cloud Is a Prison. Can the Local-First Software Movement Set Us Free? Business Inside the DIY Race to Replicate LK-99 Business A Vast Untapped Green Energy Source Is Hiding Beneath Your Feet Business Meta’s Threads Could Make—or Break—the Fediverse Business Can Twitter Alternatives Escape the Enshittification Trap? Business Deepmind’s AI Is Learning About the Art of Coding Backchannel The Trillion-Dollar Auction to Save the World Business Tesla’s Magnet Mystery Shows Elon Musk Is Willing to Compromise Business No, Fusion Energy Won’t Be ‘Limitless’ Business The Fight to Expose Corporations’ Real Impact on the Climate Business The Dream of Mini Nuclear Plants Hangs in the Balance Business Supersize EVs Are Pushing Road Safety to the Limit More Stories Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
