Open Navigation Menu To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revisit this article, select My Account, then View saved stories Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Vittoria Elliott Platforms and power reporter Vittoria Elliott is a reporter for WIRED, covering platforms and power. She was previously a reporter at Rest of World, where she covered disinformation and labor in markets outside the US and Western Europe. She has worked with The New Humanitarian, Al Jazeera, and ProPublica. She is a graduate of Columbia Journalism School and, before transitioning to journalism, worked with startups in Kenya and India.
Business Elon Musk May Have Just Signed X’s Death Warrant Business A Watchdog Group Calls for an Investigation of X’s Sneaky New Ads Business Big Tech Ditched Trust and Safety. Now Startups Are Selling It Back As a Service Business Where the Hell Is X CEO Linda Yaccarino? Security The New Era of Social Media Looks as Bad for Privacy as the Last One Business Inside Elon Musk’s First Election Crisis—a Day After He ‘Freed’ the Bird Security Elon Musk’s Main Tool for Fighting Disinformation on X Is Making the Problem Worse, Insiders Claim Business X’s Sneaky New Ads Might Be Illegal Business A Doctored Biden Video Is a Test Case for Facebook’s Deepfake Policies Business X Fires Its Election Team Before a Huge Election Year Security Satellite Images Show the Devastating Cost of Sudan’s Aerial War Business Meta Isn’t Enforcing Its Own Political Ads Policy, While the 2024 US Election Looms Business Facebook’s 2024 Election Policy May Hinge on a Cambodian Video Business How X Is Suing Its Way Out of Accountability Business By Seizing @Music, Elon Musk Shows He Doesn’t Know What Made Twitter Good Business Meta’s Election Research Opens More Questions Than It Answers Business Big AI Won’t Stop Election Deepfakes With Watermarks Ideas Threads Is the Latest Move in the AI Arms Race Business A Leaked Memo Shows TikTok Knows It Has a Labor Problem Business TikTok Keeps Removing Abortion Pill Content More Stories Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
