Open Navigation Menu To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert To revisit this article, select My Account, then View saved stories Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Early Black Friday Deals Best USB-C Accessories for iPhone 15 All the ‘Best’ T-Shirts Put to the Test What to Do If You Get Emails for the Wrong Person Get Our Deals Newsletter Gadget Lab Newsletter Simon Hill Adrienne So Gear The Best Outdoor Security Cameras Facebook X Email Save Story Facebook X Email Save Story If you buy something using links in our stories, we may earn a commission. This helps support our journalism.
Learn more.
 Please also consider subscribing to WIRED Advice on Security Cameras Read more Best Overall $200 at Amazon Best for Local Storage $150 at Amazon Best Budget Camera $80 at Amazon Complete security systems are expensive, but it’s become affordable and easy to install a couple of security cameras outside your home. Cover the exterior and you’ll know whenever there’s an intruder. Outdoor security cameras can deter burglaries, home invasions, and porch pirates; they’re also great for keeping an eye on the comings and goings of your family and pets.
The potential security benefits are attractive, but there is a trade-off in privacy, and you can expect some ongoing costs and maintenance. After months of rigorous testing, we’ve identified the best outdoor security cameras. We also highlight what should be top of mind when buying an internet-connected device, as well as installation options. Want more monitoring options? Our Best Indoor Security Cameras , Best Video Doorbell Cameras , and Best Pet Camera guides can help.
Updated June 2023: We added cameras from Arlo, TP-Link, and Ezviz, among others, and refreshed our advice section.
Special offer for Gear readers: Get a 1-year subscription to WIRED for $5 ($25 off).
 This includes unlimited access to WIRED.
com and our print magazine (if you'd like). Subscriptions help fund the work we do every day.
Photograph: Getty Images Advice on Security Cameras How to Stay Safe Security cameras can be very useful, but you must choose carefully. You might not be as concerned about potential hacks as you would be with indoor security cameras, but no one wants strangers tuning into their backyard. Follow these tips to get the peace of mind you crave without infringing on anyone’s privacy.
Choose your brand carefully : There are countless outdoor security cameras on the market at temptingly low prices. But unknown brands represent a real privacy risk. Some of the top security camera manufacturers—including Ring , Wyze , and Eufy—have been breached, but it was public scrutiny that forced them to make improvements. Any system is potentially hackable, but lesser-known brands are less likely to be called out and often disappear (or change names) when they are.
Consider security : A strong password is good, but biometric support is much more convenient and secure. We prefer security cameras with mobile apps that support fingerprint or face unlock.
Two-factor authentication (2FA) ensures that someone with your username and password cannot log in to your camera. Usually, it requires a code from an SMS, email, or an authenticator app, adding an extra layer of security. It's becoming an industry standard, but it's still something you need to manually activate. We do not recommend any cameras here that don’t at least offer 2FA as an option.
Keep it updated : It’s vital to regularly check for software updates, not just for your security cameras and apps but also for your router and other internet-connected devices. Ideally, your chosen security camera has an automatic update option.
Photograph: Arlo Best Overall Arlo Pro 5 Crystal-clear footage day or night, speedy load times for the live feed, and a smart notification system make the Arlo Pro 5 our favorite outdoor security camera. It connects directly to Wi-Fi, has a wide 160-degree field of view, and records at up to 2K resolution with HDR. (Your feed won't look blown out when there's a light source in the frame.) There’s also a choice of color night vision or spotlight, which uses an integrated light to illuminate the scene. Two-way audio is clear and relatively lag-free, and there’s a built-in siren. Over weeks of testing, it has proven to be a consistent and reliable performer. Arlo claims up to eight months of battery life, but this depends entirely on how busy it is; mine is on course to need a charge after less than four months.
It has an easy-to-use app, and the camera filters motion alerts by people, animals, vehicles, and packages. The notification system is swift and accurate, offering animated previews and screenshots with highlighted subjects that are easy to read even on a smartwatch screen. The catch? You need an Arlo Secure plan ($5 per month for a single camera, $13 per month for unlimited cameras) to make the most of these features, and it also gets you 30 days of cloud video history. HomeKit support requires an Arlo Base Station and an Apple Home Hub.
Supports Amazon Alexa, Google Assistant, and Apple HomeKit.
★ An alternative : If you want the best picture quality possible, the Arlo Ultra 2 ($250) is a 4K camera that offers everything the Pro 5 does but boasts a wider 180-degree field of view and a higher resolution. While 4K footage is incredibly crisp and HDR ensures a balanced picture, you must subscribe to an Arlo Secure plan to unlock this camera’s full potential, and 4K streams require a lot of bandwidth (you need fast internet service and a good router ).
$200 at Amazon Gear The Best Black Friday Sonos Deals Brenda Stolyar Gear 13 Best Deals at Target’s Black Friday Sale Medea Giordano Buying Guides The Best Binoculars to Zoom In on Real Life Scott Gilbertson Gear The Best Fitness Trackers and Watches for Everyone Adrienne So Photograph: TP-Link Best for Local Storage TP-Link Tapo C420S2 (Battery) If you'd rather avoid cloud services, consider the impressive Tapo C420S2 system. You get two cameras with a small hub that plugs into your router via Ethernet, and it takes microSD cards up to 256 GB (sold separately). Video resolution goes up to 2K, and the footage is crisp and detailed. I was especially impressed by the nighttime performance. Testing on a long dark side passage, where most cameras fail to penetrate to the gate at the end, the Tapo picked out every detail. The Starlight sensor enables color night vision, and there are two built-in spotlights.
The Tapo app has a wealth of options, including privacy zones, sensitivity sliders, scheduling, privacy mode, and smart detection for people, pets, and vehicles. This works well, but I got a few false positives in stormy weather. When my cat jumped up to climb the fence right next to the camera, it kept flagging him as a person. There is a siren, and the two-way audio is passable, though it often sounds distorted. Thankfully, the live feed and playback videos are consistently quick to load on my iPhone and on my Nest Hub Max. TP-Link optimistically says you can expect up to six months of battery life (mine are at 70 and 51 percent after 27 days). Since you get all these features without a subscription, this is our top pick if you want to keep things local. If you do need cloud storage, Tapo Care costs $7 per month for two cameras.
Supports Amazon Alexa and Google Assistant.
$150 at Amazon $150 at B&H Photograph: Wyze Best Budget Camera Wyze Cam Outdoor (V2, Battery) Bargains are a big part of the Wyze brand, and the Wyze Cam Outdoor is no different. It records video in Full HD with a 110-degree field of view and comes with a base station that plugs into your router for setup but can connect wirelessly thereafter. This base station takes a microSD card (not included) for local video recording, and I strongly recommend utilizing this. Otherwise, there's a 12-second limit for video clips and a five-minute cooldown in between motion events if you store everything in the cloud (accessible for 14 days). If you prefer the cloud, you can pay $24 per year for unlimited video length and no cooldowns, along with other perks like person detection. The stated battery life is between three and six months, but mine needed a charge before it reached three.
I like that you can schedule recording times and customize the camera's detection zone. And because you can also add a microSD card to the camera's base, a nifty travel mode lets you take the Cam with you without needing to connect to the base station or Wi-Fi—great if you want to monitor your hotel room on a trip. Unfortunately, the video quality overall doesn't match up to more expensive cameras. The low frame rate gives footage a choppy feel, there’s no HDR, and night vision is only passable. There is two-way audio, but lags make conversations awkward. The live feed and recorded videos are slow to load too.
Note : This camera model was not one of those affected by the security flaw that Wyze failed to fix or report to customers for three years—though that story may still give you pause in choosing a Wyze device. (Here's the official Wyze response ).
Supports Amazon Alexa and Google Assistant.
$80 at Amazon $80 at The Home Depot $74 at Wyze Gear The Best Black Friday Sonos Deals Brenda Stolyar Gear 13 Best Deals at Target’s Black Friday Sale Medea Giordano Buying Guides The Best Binoculars to Zoom In on Real Life Scott Gilbertson Gear The Best Fitness Trackers and Watches for Everyone Adrienne So Photograph: TP-Link Best Tethered Camera TP-Link Tapo C325WB Provided you can run a power cable without too much trouble, a wired security camera can be a better choice than a battery-powered one for a back or side entrance. Some of our favorite Wi-Fi routers and mesh systems come from TP-Link, and its Tapo camera line is generally affordable and reliable, if a bit basic. The C325WB hits a new high with a large aperture and image sensor that enables color nighttime footage without a spotlight, making it ideal for dark corridors and side passages. It does also have a motion-triggered spotlight. You can also filter for people, pets, or vehicles and set up private zones in the Tapo app. This camera is weatherproof with an IP66 rating and can take up to 512-GB microSD cards for local recordings.
By default, the camera mostly records at 720p, so you must dig into the settings to push the resolution to 2K and turn on HDR, or you can expect choppy overexposed video. I also had to reduce the motion detection sensitivity to prevent false positives, and the onboard AI is flaky, frequently identifying my cat as a person. While the feed was mostly quick to load in the Tapo app, it was sometimes slow or failed to load on my Nest Hub. There’s an Ethernet port here too, but sadly no PoE support. Cloud storage is an option with Tapo Care (from $3.50 monthly for a single camera). Minor issues aside, this camera is excellent for the money, and has the best color night vision I’ve seen.
Supports Amazon Alexa and Google Assistant.
$120 at Amazon Photograph: Defender Best Tethered Budget Camera Defender Guard Pro The Defender Guard Pro ( 7/10, WIRED Recommends ) ticks most boxes. It's affordable, delivers 2K video, two-way audio, and local storage via an included microSD card. Plus, there's a spotlight and siren. Videos are clear and detailed, and there’s a 16X digital zoom. The main weakness is that bright lights can blow out areas of the picture (especially if you use the color night vision), but image quality is generally impressive for the price. Alerts came through swiftly, and the app was consistently quick to load during my testing. What elevates this camera above similarly priced options is the human detection. You can set motion zones and adjust sensitivity on most security cameras, but you still get a lot of false positives. Human detection limits your notifications to people, and it works well on the Defender Guard Pro. This camera is also a solid choice if you want video stored locally (nothing goes to the cloud), and there is no need for a subscription.
The big downside? It's not battery-powered. The camera is IP67-rated , but the power cable isn’t waterproof, so you will likely need to drill a hole to run it into your house, limiting your placement options. You can plug into an outlet or use the PoE (power-over-Ethernet) connection. The setup was glitchy, and the camera only supports the 2.4-GHz Wi-Fi band, so things will run more smoothly if you ensure the Wi-Fi network you’re using for setup is on the 2.4-GHz band.
 There's no Alexa, Google Assistant, or HomeKit support.
$90 at Amazon $74 at Walmart $90 at Lowe's Gear The Best Black Friday Sonos Deals Brenda Stolyar Gear 13 Best Deals at Target’s Black Friday Sale Medea Giordano Buying Guides The Best Binoculars to Zoom In on Real Life Scott Gilbertson Gear The Best Fitness Trackers and Watches for Everyone Adrienne So Photograph: Arlo Best LTE Camera Arlo Go 2 (Battery) If you need a security camera in an area with patchy or no Wi-Fi, go with the Arlo Go 2. It boasts 4G LTE support, and in the US, you can get service from T-Mobile, Verizon, or US Cellular. You can take it camping, use it with your RV, or install it in another remote spot you want to keep an eye on. Video quality is solid but limited to 1080p to keep the data requirements under control. There’s also two-way audio, a siren, a spotlight for color night vision, and optional local storage with a microSD card (sold separately). The camera is IP65-rated and completely wireless, with a hefty battery inside (mine is at 39 percent after two months). If you’re worried about charging it, you can buy a solar panel ($60) accessory.
The Arlo Go 2 employs the same excellent app as our top pick, with smart alerts and rich notifications, so you can filter for people, animals, vehicles, and packages. Alerts are swift and accurate in my testing, but your mileage will vary based on local signal strength. You will need an Arlo Secure plan ($5 per month for one camera, $13 per month for unlimited) and a data plan on top, which can get expensive. Video recorded on the microSD card cannot be accessed remotely; it’s more of a backup that you can check later if required. One thing that elevates this camera over many other LTE cameras is that it supports Wi-Fi and automatically connects where it’s available, which is ideal for RV owners.
Supports Amazon Alexa and Google Assistant.
$250 at Arlo $250 at Verizon Photograph: Nest Best for Google Assistant Google Nest Cam (Battery, Outdoor) The Nest Camera (Outdoor) works best for anyone with Google Assistant running the show in the home. It's battery-powered and easy enough for renters to install, with a simple mounting plate and a proprietary magnetic mount that makes it easy to customize the angle. The 130-degree field of view encompassed my driveway, front door, and most of my front yard. It captures sharp 1080p video with HDR and night vision, and it has a clear speaker and microphone. The alerts are seamless, and the motion detector was accurate and sensitive enough to tell that the slight whisk of a passing ponytail was a person.
You need a Google account and the Google Home app to use it. You don't need the $6 per month Nest Aware subscription , but most people buying Google devices are probably not afraid of storing data on the cloud or of machine learning. It's worth it to have features like the camera's ability to learn faces and 60-day event history, and even more so if you're bundling it with your Nest Doorbell.
 The battery needs charging after a little more than a month.
Supports Google Assistant.
$180 at Amazon $180 at Target Gear The Best Black Friday Sonos Deals Brenda Stolyar Gear 13 Best Deals at Target’s Black Friday Sale Medea Giordano Buying Guides The Best Binoculars to Zoom In on Real Life Scott Gilbertson Gear The Best Fitness Trackers and Watches for Everyone Adrienne So Photograph: Logitech Best for Apple HomeKit Logitech Circle View There are some big caveats to this Logitech security camera. First, it has a permanently attached 10-foot power cord that's not weatherproof, so you'll need to be careful when you route it to an indoor outlet. It also requires a HomeKit hub, such as HomePod Mini or Apple TV , and while you can record 10 days of video events to your iCloud account, it's only worthwhile if you cough up for an iCloud storage plan. There's also zero compatibility with Android, so it might be useless for anyone in the household without an Apple gadget.
If none of that fazes you, then it's a solid outdoor camera for privacy-minded folks. It doesn’t have a separate app of its own. Instead, you add it directly in Apple's Home app by scanning a QR code. It captures Full HD video and boasts an extremely wide 180-degree field of view, though there's a bit of a fish-eye effect here. (The lack of HDR also means areas are sometimes too dark or blown out.) There's motion detection, two-way audio, and decent night vision, and you can ask Siri to display the live feed, which loads quickly. The camera can differentiate between people, animals, or vehicles, and rich notifications let you play video clips right from your iPhone's lock screen.
Supports Apple HomeKit.
$160 at Apple $160 at Amazon Photograph: Ezviz A Pan-and-Tilt Camera Ezviz H8 Pro You may need several security cameras to cover an area, but the Ezviz H8 Pro offers an alternative solution. It can pan 340 degrees horizontally and tilt 80 degrees vertically. The H8 Pro is an imposing sphere-shaped camera that connects via Wi-Fi or Ethernet, and the versatile L-shaped bracket lets you attach it to an overhanging portion of the roof or to a wall. It can handle bad weather, but you must run a cable to a power outlet as it has no battery. Screw open the panel to reveal the microSD card slot for cards up to 512 GB in size (sold separately), enabling you to keep recordings local.
The Ezviz app is a little clunky but loads the end-to-end encrypted feed quickly. The video resolution is 2K and captures plenty of detail. The on-device person detection is consistently accurate. There’s two-way audio, though it can sound quite distorted. The black-and-white night vision is crisp, and it switches on two spotlights for color footage when it detects motion. Sadly, there’s no HDR, so it struggles with mixed lighting, but at up to 30 frames per second, it captures moving subjects clearly. Cloud storage is optional but pricey, starting at $6 monthly for a single camera and just seven days of video. Annoyingly, you must set the camera position back on the view you want after panning around, but you can save several preset locations as shortcuts. It can also track moving subjects and will return to the last used preset when the subject moves out of frame. The H8 Pro is almost identical to the C8W Pro ($159) , which it replaces here. If 1080p footage is enough for you, we also tested and liked the cheaper C8C ($76) , though it lacks the tracking capability.
Supports Amazon Alexa and Google Assistant.
$150 at Amazon Gear The Best Black Friday Sonos Deals Brenda Stolyar Gear 13 Best Deals at Target’s Black Friday Sale Medea Giordano Buying Guides The Best Binoculars to Zoom In on Real Life Scott Gilbertson Gear The Best Fitness Trackers and Watches for Everyone Adrienne So Photograph: Amazon Best microSD Cards Security Camera Storage Some security cameras support local storage, enabling you to record videos on the camera or a linked hub. A few hubs have built-in storage, and some provide slots for hard drives, but most rely on microSD cards. This is a quick guide on what to look for (plus some recommendations).
The microSD card you choose should have fast read and write speeds so you can record high-quality video and play it back without delay. We recommend going for Class 10 microSD cards rated as U1 or U3. You can dive deeper into what that means in our SD card explainer.
 Before you buy, check the card type, format, and maximum supported card size for your security camera. Consider how many hours of video each card capacity can store. For example, you might get a couple of days of HD video on a 32-GB card. If you want to record continuously, you likely want a higher-capacity card.
We recommend formatting the card as soon as you insert it into the camera. You will usually be prompted to do this, but if not, there is generally an option in the settings. Just remember, formatting will wipe anything on the microSD card, so back up the contents first.
Security camera manufacturers, like Wyze , offer their own branded microSD cards. They work just fine, but for maximum reliability, I’d suggest one of these. Just remember to always check the specs. Even different sizes of cards in the same range often have different capabilities.
Samsung PRO Endurance microSDXC (128 GB) for $21 SanDisk High Endurance Video microSDXC Card (256 GB) for $25 PNY Elite-X microSDXC Card (64 GB) for $18 Photograph: Wyze Honorable Mentions Other Good Outdoor Security Cameras We have tested several other outdoor security cameras. These are the ones we like that just missed out on a place above.
Wyze Cam OG for $24 and Wyze Cam OG Telephoto for $34 : This interesting pair of affordable cameras from Wyze work well together, and you can get them bundled with a stack kit for $56.
 The OG gives you a 120-degree wide view and sports a spotlight, and the OG Telephoto has a 3x optical zoom. For example, you might have the OG cover your backyard and use the Telephoto to focus on the gate area, and you can set up a picture-in-picture view in the Wyze app. Both are IP65 rated, but if you want to use an outdoor socket, you must buy the Wyze Outdoor Power Adapter ($14).
Swann AllSecure650 4 Camera Kit for $700 : This kit includes four wireless, battery-powered cameras and a network video recorder (NVR) that can plug into a TV or monitor via HDMI. The cameras can record up to 2K, and footage is crisp and detailed enough to zoom in on, though there is a mild fisheye effect. The night vision is reasonably good, but the two-way audio lags and sounds distorted. I like the option to view all camera feeds simultaneously, the backup battery in the NVR makes it a cinch to swap batteries when a camera is running low, and everything is local with no need for a subscription. Unfortunately, the mobile app is poor, camera feeds sometimes take several seconds to load, and there doesn’t seem to be any 2FA. The NVR interface is also clunky to navigate with the provided mouse.
Arlo Pro 4 for $154 : This camera was our top pick and it is still an excellent buy that is widely available. Its successor, the Pro 5, has slightly better battery life and enhanced color night vision, but there isn't a huge difference. This camera provides crisp, clear footage, responds swiftly, and has an excellent detection and notification system, but you must also factor in the cost of an Arlo subscription starting from $5 per month for a single camera.
Reolink Argus 3 Pro for $120 : There’s a lot to like with this security camera, not least the affordable price. It offers 2K video, local or cloud storage, two-way audio, a siren, and person recognition. The live feed loads fast, and it’s cheap to buy a solar panel accessory for power. The app is a little confusing, but Reolink recently added 2FA. I also tested the Reolink Argus PT with solar panel ($160) , which is a solid pan and tilt camera with an otherwise similar feature set. Both Reolink cameras also support dual band Wi-Fi (2.4 GHz and 5 GHz).
Eve Outdoor Cam for $250 : This stylish floodlight camera must be wired in, and installation is tricky (you may want an electrician). It can replace an outdoor light to give you motion-activated light (up to 1,500 lumens), 1080p video (157-degree field-of-view), and two-way audio. But as a Homekit camera, you will need an Apple Homekit hub (Apple TV, HomePod, or iPad) and an iCloud+ storage plan. Sadly, the video and sound quality are average, it only works on 2.4-GHz Wi-Fi, and there’s no Android support.
Toucan Wireless Outdoor Camera for $100 : Toucan’s wireless camera resembles our top pick from Arlo with a smart magnetic mount and easy installation. The 1080p video is good in ideal conditions but struggles with mixed lighting (no HDR). Two-way audio is passable. The app works well and loads the live feed quite quickly, but this is cloud-only, which means you need to subscribe (from $3 per month) if you want tagged events, more than the last 24 hours recorded, or to download more than five videos per month.
Wyze Cam V3 Outdoor Camera for $35 : This camera has an IP65 rating making, it suitable for outdoor use. It comes close to matching the Wyze Cam Outdoor on video quality and features, but because it must be plugged in, you might easily end up spending more on a lengthy cable than on the camera itself. Local storage is also limited to a microSD card on the device.
Toucan Security Light Camera for $180 : You can simply plug this camera into an outlet, and it comes with an 8-meter waterproof cable. It has a motion-activated light (1,200 lumens), records 1080p video, and supports two-way audio. I found the footage quite detailed, but it struggled with direct sunlight. You can record locally on a microSD card (sold separately), and you get 24 hours of free cloud storage, but it has limitations. Plans start from $3 per month. Even with motion detection set to the lowest sensitivity, this camera triggered too often during testing, and there’s no way to filter for people, so I got frequent false positives (blowing leaves, moths, and birds all triggered alerts).
Ezviz C3X for $90 : The C3X gets the basics right, offering crisp footage and reliable alerts. It sports a dual-lens camera for better night vision, offering full-color video without the need for a spotlight. It is also easy to set up, takes a microSD card, and supports convenient two-factor authentication with a fingerprint. Unfortunately, you have to run a power cable (there’s optional Ethernet too), and the cloud subscription is too expensive. I also tested the wireless Ezviz EB3 (£80) , a 2K, battery-powered outdoor security camera with on-device person detection and a microSD card slot, but it's only available in the UK.
Blurams Outdoor Lite 3 for $65 : This is a feature-packed security camera for the price, with support for pan, tilt, and zoom functionality, spotlights, siren, motion tracking, continuous recording, and two-way audio. You can store footage locally on a microSD card (sold separately) or subscribe to a cloud plan. Video quality is reasonable, but the app is very glitchy and loading the live feed was inconsistent (sometimes it just buffered indefinitely).
SimpliSafe Wireless Outdoor Security Camera for $190 : A solid set of features, crisp 1080p video, and support for HDR sounds tempting, but you need a Simplisafe security system ( 9/10, WIRED recommends ) and monitoring plan to make this camera worthwhile, making it too expensive for what you get. (The Arlo Pro 4 offers better-quality video and more features.) It may be a useful add-on for existing SimpliSafe customers, though.
Gear The Best Black Friday Sonos Deals Brenda Stolyar Gear 13 Best Deals at Target’s Black Friday Sale Medea Giordano Buying Guides The Best Binoculars to Zoom In on Real Life Scott Gilbertson Gear The Best Fitness Trackers and Watches for Everyone Adrienne So Photograph: Canary Don’t Buy These Outdoor Security Cameras to Avoid We didn't like every camera we tested. These are the ones to avoid.
Switchbot Outdoor Spotlight Cam : Simple to set up, this orb-shaped camera offers 1080p footage that is reasonably good quality, but it really struggles with mixed lighting, badly overexposing bright areas. There is decent night vision, a built-in spotlight, and two-way audio. You can also insert a microSD card up to 256 GB for local recording, which is just as well because the cloud subscription is far too expensive. Sadly, the busy app is flaky and sometimes dropped or refused to load the live feed. I liked the 5W solar panel option to keep the battery topped up, but you can get the same thing with better cameras than this.
Canary Flex : I love the curved lozenge design of the Canary Flex, but it is by far the most unreliable security camera we tested. It frequently missed people walking past altogether or started recording when they had almost left the frame. Night vision and low-light video quality are poor, and the app is very slow to load.
Ring Stick Up Cam : Because of Ring’s suburban surveillance , high-profile hacks , and data-sharing with law enforcement , we don’t recommend its cameras. But I did test this one and found the low frame rate, slow loading, and bulky design off-putting.
Nooie Cam Outdoor : It resembles Google’s Nest Cam Outdoor but costs far less. However, the Nooie Cam Outdoor comes undone when you open the unreliable and buggy Android app. Sometimes it works smoothly. Sometimes it hangs trying to load the camera feed. Alerts are similarly inconsistent. A relatively thick, flat, USB-A power cord will also present a placement problem for some.
Xiaomi Mi Wireless Outdoor Security Camera : Xiaomi’s camera looks the part and is affordable, but things go downhill from there. It took several attempts to get this camera set up, with no indication of what the problem was from the flaky app. When I finally did get it working, the footage lacked detail and suffered from overexposure. It also requires an indoor receiver.
Kangaroo Indoor + Outdoor Cam : This cute design works inside or out, is easy to set up, and is very cheap. But I found the Kangaroo app slow to load the camera feed, some events failed to trigger an alert, sound alerts felt random, and motion appears blurry and laggy because of the low frame rate. Intrusive upselling in the app pushes subscription upgrades, and you need a long power cable, as there’s no battery.
Photograph: Eufy What About Eufy Security? Why We Don't Recommend Eufy Security We recommended several Eufy Security cameras in the past, but it recently emerged that camera systems sold with the promise of local data storage were, in fact, uploading images to the cloud, as demonstrated by security researcher Paul Moore.
 Further, it proved possible to stream video from a Eufy camera without encryption through the cloud, as reported by The Verge.
 Considering this, on top of the software bug in May 2021 that exposed Eufy users' camera feeds to other users, even giving them full control of the pan and zoom functions, we decided to stop recommending Eufy cameras for the time being.
Eufy's parent company, Anker, has responded to our queries , admitting that most of the allegations are true. It claims to have fixed these issues, changing the language around its push notifications (which send images to the cloud for alerts), ensuring end-to-end encryption through the web portal (as well as the mobile app), and removing the need to upload a user’s face photo for setup. The company insists that video streams are, and always have been, encrypted with a dynamic key. Anker is promising a full risk assessment with penetration testing, an independent review of its current security and privacy systems and practices, and a new security bounty program to encourage researchers to find vulnerabilities. It has also officially engaged PWC and TrustARC to conduct a comprehensive security assessment.
These are all positive steps, but we are still concerned about the company’s initial denials. We will continue to monitor the situation and await the results of independent audits before we start recommending Eufy cameras again.
Gear The Best Black Friday Sonos Deals Brenda Stolyar Gear 13 Best Deals at Target’s Black Friday Sale Medea Giordano Buying Guides The Best Binoculars to Zoom In on Real Life Scott Gilbertson Gear The Best Fitness Trackers and Watches for Everyone Adrienne So Photograph: Jose A. Bernat Bacete/Getty Images Picking a System How to Choose and Install There is a lot to consider when you are shopping for an outdoor security camera.
 It can be tough to determine which features you need, so here are some important questions to run through.
Wired or battery : Wired cameras usually require some drilling to install, must be within reach of a power outlet, and will go out if the power does, but they never need to be charged. If you buy battery-powered security cameras, the installation is easier, and you can pick the spots you want. They usually run for months before needing to be recharged and will warn you when the battery is low, but that does mean you have to remove the battery, or sometimes the entire camera, to recharge it, which typically takes a few hours. It’s worth noting that you can buy solar panels to power some battery-powered cameras now, which gives you the best of both worlds.
Video quality : You may be tempted to go with the highest-resolution video you can get, but this isn’t always the best idea. You can see more details in a 4K video, but it requires much more bandwidth to stream and more storage space to record than Full HD or 2K resolution. Folks with limited Wi-Fi should be cautious. You will generally want a wide field of view, so the camera takes in more, but this can cause a curved fish-eye effect at the corners, and some cameras are better than others at correcting for distortion. An important feature, particularly if your camera is facing a mixed lighting location with some shadow and direct sunlight (or a street light), is HDR support, as it can prevent light areas from blowing out or dark areas from losing detail. One last thing to consider on video quality is the frame rate. A low frame rate can cause artifacts and blurring with moving subjects, and anything below 20 frames-per-second is likely to be jerky.
Connectivity : Most security cameras will connect to your Wi-Fi router on the 2.4-GHz band.
 Depending on where you intend to install them, you may appreciate the support for the 5-GHz band, which enables the stream to load more quickly. Some systems, such as the EufyCam 2 Pro, come with a hub that can act as a Wi-Fi range extender. Bear in mind that you shouldn't install a security camera in a location without a strong Wi-Fi signal.
Subscription model : Most security camera manufacturers offer a subscription service that provides cloud storage for video recording. It isn’t always as optional as it seems. Some manufacturers bundle in smart features such as person detection or activity zones, making a subscription essential to get the best from its cameras. Always factor in the subscription cost, and make sure you are clear on what is included before you buy.
Local or cloud storage : If you don’t want to sign up for a subscription service and upload video clips to the cloud, make sure your chosen camera offers local storage. Some security cameras have microSD card slots, while others record video to a hub device inside your home. A few manufacturers offer limited cloud storage for free, but you can usually expect to pay somewhere around $3 to $6 per month for 30 days of storage for a single camera. For multiple cameras, a longer recording period, or continuous recording, you are looking at paying between $10 and $15 per month. There are usually discounts if you pay annually.
Placement is important : Remember that a visible security camera is a powerful deterrent.
 You don’t want to hide your cameras away. Also, make sure the view isn't peering into a neighbor's window. Most cameras offer customizable zones to filter out recording or motion detection for areas of the camera's frame. If you buy a battery-powered camera, remember that you will have to charge it periodically, so it has to be somewhat accessible. The ideal placement for security cameras is around 7 feet above the ground and angled slightly downwards.
False positives : Unless you want your phone to ping every time your cat wanders onto the porch or when the neighbor’s dog runs through your garden, consider a security camera that can detect people and filter alerts. Good cameras will also enable you to set privacy or activity zones.
Night vision and spotlights : Outdoor security cameras generally have infrared night vision, but low-light performance varies wildly. You always lose some detail when light levels are low. Most night vision modes produce monochrome footage. Some manufacturers offer color night vision, though it is often colorized by software and can look odd. We prefer spotlights, as they allow the camera to capture better-quality footage, and the light acts as a further deterrent to any intruder. But they aren’t suitable for every situation, and they drain batteries faster if not wired.
Camera theft : Concerned about camera theft? Choose a camera that doesn’t have onboard storage. You might also want to consider a protective cage and screw mount rather than a magnetic mount. Some manufacturers have replacement policies for camera theft, especially if you have a subscription, but they usually require you to file a police report and have exclusions. Check the policy thoroughly before you buy.
Contributor X Senior Associate Reviews Editor X Topics security camera security smart home surveillance buying guides Shopping Scott Gilbertson Scott Gilbertson Reece Rogers Boone Ashworth Carlton Reid Virginia Heffernan Medea Giordano Scott Gilbertson WIRED COUPONS TurboTax Service Code TurboTax coupon: Up to an extra $15 off all tax services h&r block coupon H&R Block tax software: Save 20% - no coupon needed Instacart promo code Instacart promo code: $25 Off your 1st order + free delivery Dyson promo code Extra 20% off sitewide - Dyson promo code GoPro Promo Code GoPro Promo Code: save 15% on your next order Samsung Promo Code Samsung coupon Code for up to 40% Off the store Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
