Sign in My Account Subscribe Quick Links Dear Therapist Crossword Puzzle Manage Subscription Popular Latest Sections Politics Ideas Photo Science Culture Podcasts Health Education Planet Technology Family Projects America In Person Global Events Books Fiction Newsletter The Atlantic Crossword Play Crossword The Print Edition Latest Issue Past Issues Give a Gift Search The Atlantic Quick Links Dear Therapist Crossword Puzzle Manage Subscription Popular Latest Sign In My Account Subscribe Jacob Stern Can a Boxer Return to the Ring After Killing? In 2019, Charles Conwell unintentionally ended Patrick Day’s life with his fists. Now he’s trying to make sense of his life, and boxing itself.
Jacob Stern December 2021 Issue Photo-illustration by The Atlantic* Online Betting Has Gone Off the Deep End What are the odds this story wins a Pulitzer? Jacob Stern October 13, 2023 Illustration by Ben Kothe / The Atlantic. Source: … An Unsettling Hint at How Much Fraud Could Exist in Science Two experts on dishonesty are separately accused of tampering with data for the same research paper. Has this ever happened before? Jacob Stern August 2, 2023 Illustration by Ben Kothe / The Atlantic. Source: … The Great PowerPoint Panic of 2003 Twenty years ago, corporate-presentation software was called “the end of reason.” Why? Jacob Stern July 23, 2023 David Dee Delgado / Getty; John Tully / … ‘Things Don’t Always Change in a Nice, Gradual Way’ Climate change feels more real now than ever.
Jacob Stern July 13, 2023 illustration by The Atlantic The Harvard Expert on Dishonesty Who Is Accused of Lying Francesca Gino stands accused of cheating in her studies of why people cheat. Was she searching for a theory of herself? Jacob Stern July 7, 2023 Camerique / ClassicStock / Getty Killer Whales Are Not Our Friends Stop rooting for the orcas ramming boats.
Jacob Stern June 17, 2023 CBS Photo Archive / Getty The People Who Use Their Parents’ First Name “Morning, Carol! Morning, Mike!” Jacob Stern June 8, 2023 Illustration by The Atlantic. Source: Getty What the Pandemic Simulations Missed And why it's the perfect time to role-play the next one Jacob Stern May 30, 2023 Getty Something Weird Is Going On With Melatonin Pediatric overdoses have increased by 530 percent over the past decade.
Jacob Stern May 18, 2023 Illustration by The Atlantic. Source: Smith Collection / … Hotel Booking Is a Post-truth Nightmare Buying stuff online is stressful. Reserving a room is excruciating.
Jacob Stern May 1, 2023 Erich Hartmann / Magnum Silicon Valley’s Favorite Slogan Has Lost All Meaning How one specific observation became a hyped-up law of everything Jacob Stern April 21, 2023 Getty Seltzer Is Torture Soda hurts me, and I’m not alone.
Jacob Stern April 13, 2023 Matt Chase / The Atlantic Where’s the AI Culture War? Somehow, artificial intelligence has remained strikingly nonpartisan.
Jacob Stern April 9, 2023 Illustration by Matt Chase / The Atlantic. Source: … AI Is Running Circles Around Robotics Moravec’s paradox strikes again! Jacob Stern April 4, 2023 Illustration by Matt Chase / The Atlantic. Source: … AI Is Like … Nuclear Weapons? The new technology is beyond comparison.
Jacob Stern March 26, 2023 Illustration by The Atlantic GPT-4 Has the Memory of a Goldfish Large language models know a lot but can’t remember much at all.
Jacob Stern March 17, 2023 Matt Chase / The Atlantic GPT-4 Might Just Be a Bloated, Pointless Mess Will endless “scaling” of our current language models really bring true machine intelligence? Jacob Stern March 6, 2023 The Atlantic; Getty Bird Flu Leaves the World With an Existential Choice To prepare for future outbreaks, we’ll have to decide which is the greater danger: nature or ourselves.
Jacob Stern February 17, 2023 Alamy; The Atlantic More Seinfeld Than Seinfeld Itself An AI version of the classic sitcom was funny—until it wasn’t.
Jacob Stern February 7, 2023 Getty; The Atlantic A Machine Crushed Us at Pokémon Mastering games could be the first step to mastering real life.
Jacob Stern and Matteo Wong February 6, 2023 More Stories About Our History Careers Contact Help Center Contact Us Atlantic Brand Partners Press Podcasts The Experiment Floodlines How to Build a Happy Life The Review Subscription Purchase Give a Gift Manage Subscription Download iOS App Newsletters Follow Privacy Policy Do Not Sell My Personal Information Advertising Guidelines Terms Conditions Responsible Disclosure Site Map TheAtlantic.com Copyright (c) 2023 by The Atlantic Monthly Group. All Rights Reserved.
