Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Way to Hire Employees Highest Paying Jobs Best Business Laptops What is RingCentral? Best VPN Best Job Search Sites Home Business Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best CRM software for your business in 2022 By Lucas Coll Close If you run or are starting a businesses, the best ingredient for success isn’t what accounting software you use, your hiring practices, or your office layout — it’s how you deal with your customers. But gone are the days of rolodexes and handwritten address books. In the 21st century, any business worth its salt uses CRM software. CRM, or customer relations management, is a broad term that covers pretty much anything your company does to connect with customers. This includes things like managing customer contact information, running targeted messaging and ad campaigns, consolidating all customer communications, generating sales leads, and providing fast and direct customer service, among many other things.
Zoho CRM HubSpot CRM Freshsales CRM Salesforce CRM Less Annoying CRM If all this sounds complicated, that’s because it is, but the best CRM software is designed to integrate all of these processes into one easy-to-manage system, greatly streamlining this process by leveraging modern technologies like online connectivity and cloud computing. There are a few things to consider before choosing the best CRM software for your business, though, as they’re not all built for the same thing. Below, we’ve laid out the best CRM software suites along with their various features, pricing, and what sets them apart from the competition. If you’re looking for a better way to manage your customer relations in 2022, we’ve got what your business needs right here.
Zoho CRM Image used with permission by copyright holder API integration: Yes Mobile support: Yes Cost: From $14/month Third-party app support: Yes Automated sales and marketing: Yes Trial period: 15 days (30 days for Ultimate Plan) Zoho is a leader in the customer relationship management space and has earned its place at the top of our roundup of the best CRM software.
Zoho CRM offers all of the features we look for in a good CRM suite, including live customer chat, a chatbot AI, easy sales and marketing pipeline management, advanced customer analytics, email routing, and more. It’s also easy to set up and use, which is important for small businesses without an advanced IT team and any others who maybe aren’t the most tech-savvy. Especially with support from Zia, Zoho’s AI-powered assistant that helps you work smarter not harder. Zia increases sales productivity and both speeds up and makes various tasks so much easier with accurate predictions and delegation opportunities.
Best Salesforce alternatives 2023: 7 other CRM tools worth trying The best accounting software for your small business The best way to hire employees in 2022 Zoho CRM also integrates with many third-party enterprise and workflow apps including Microsoft Office, Slack, Shopify, Google Workspace, and MailChimp, among others. Zoho CRM automates much of the workflow as well, and provides advanced analytics as well as real-time notifications when a customer interacts with your business to help you get a bird’s-eye view of what’s working, what’s not, and how to drive more sales. Another excellent feature to note is that Zoho CRM has over 500 extensions spanning each stage of the sales process. Canvas for Zoho CRM is another benefit, and industry-first, which allows you to redesign the look and feel of the CRM to match business needs and create a more meaningful experience.
Zoho CRM does come in a free edition for small businesses, but it’s limited to three users maximum. Pricing starts as low as $14 per user per month for the Standard plan and scales up from there. The $52/month Ultimate tier gives you 30 days free, which should be ample time to try out all the advanced features of the top Zoho CRM service plan. There is a 15-day trial period offer with most plans, so you can give them a try.
Learn More HubSpot CRM Image used with permission by copyright holder API integration: Yes Mobile support: Yes Cost: Free tools available, premium plans from $45/month Third-party app support: Yes Automated sales and marketing: Yes Trial period: None, but free CRM tools are available Hubspot is another of the best CRM software suites and is a great pick for smaller businesses. That’s because it’s super intuitive to set up and use, has fantastic email integration, and — perhaps most importantly — you don’t actually have to spend a cent to use its basic CRM features.
Hubspot’s pricing structure is a little different than other CRM service providers: It operates on a freemium model, giving you access to many CRM tools without cost. Then, if you decide you need to add on some additional marketing and sales tools, you can sign up for these premium plans starting at $45 per month. These premium add-ons offer things like marketing contacts and advanced sales tools, giving you some flexibility and allowing you to scale your plan with the size and needs of your business.
The free CRM tools provides by Hubspot are good on their own, though, so we recommend trying those out and then deciding if you need more. Hubspot’s free CRM services include email marketing, live customer chat, sales landing pages, ad management, chat bots, contact management, and third-party app integrations, so you’ve got a lot to work with here. And “free” means “free” — this isn’t a trial period.
Freshsales CRM Image used with permission by copyright holder API integration: Yes Mobile support: Yes Cost: Free plan available, premium plans from $15/month Third-party app support: Yes Automated sales and marketing: Yes Trial period: 21 days, free basic plan available Freshsales is another great CRM solution for smaller businesses as it’s lightweight and quick to set up. If you run a smaller company and you’re looking for a no-nonsense CRM software suite that you can have up and running fast, Freshsales is one worth checking out. It even features a handy AI assistant to help keep things running smoothly. If all of this tech stuff intimidates you, then Freshsales is by far one of the simplest and most straightforward CRM suites available.
There’s also a basic free plan available, with premium tiers starting at $15 per month per user. You can take advantage of a 21-day free trial for the paid plans as well. The free plan is pretty basic, though; you get contact and account management, live chat, email integration, and mobile support, but you don’t get any sales or customer interaction analytics. Nonetheless, it’s a good way to give Freshsales a spin and decide if you’d like to shell out the cash for one of the paid plans to unlock some more advanced features (or at least take that 21-day trial for a spin).
Some of the more advanced features that come with the premium tiers include sales pipeline management, customer analytics, AI chatbots, workflow automation, sales lead generation, and extensive third-party app integrations. For being so easy to use, Freshsales is also highly customizable, so advanced users shouldn’t shy away from it thinking that it’s too bare-bones. It’s one of the best CRM software suites for small businesses Salesforce CRM Image used with permission by copyright holder API integration: Yes Mobile support: Yes Cost: From $25/month Third-party app integrations: Yes Automated sales and marketing: Yes Trial period: 30 days Like Zoho, Salesforce is another household name in the business software space, and it’s a name you might have heard of already. It’s easily one of the best CRM software suites out there and is a top choice for larger businesses and more advanced users looking for a full-featured customer relationship management solution, although it works well with companies of pretty much any size — provided that you can navigate through its broad and powerful set of tools.
Salesforce offers pretty much everything you could want from a CRM software service, depending on which plan you choose. Contact management, lead generation, email integration, live chat, workflow automation, sales forecasting, mobile support — it’s all there. But where Salesforce really shines is in its third-party support. Its dominant market presence lends it perhaps the most widespread third-party support of all of the best CRM software providers, giving you a huge amount of collaboration and app integration options.
The drawback of Salesforce is that, as one of the most advanced, powerful, and feature-rich CRM software solutions out there, it can be a bit daunting for the uninitiated. There’s a bit of a steep learning curve involved with setting up and using Salesforce. It’s also one of the more expensive CRM suites, starting at $25 per user per month for the basic Essentials plan and going up to $300 for the Unlimited package, but there is a 30-day free trial period so you can enjoy a little risk-free hands-on time with it before you commit.
Learn More Less Annoying CRM Image used with permission by copyright holder API integration: Yes Mobile support: Yes Cost: From $15/month Third-party app support: Yes Automated sales and marketing: Yes Trial period: 30 days As its name pretty clearly suggests, Less Annoying CRM aims to provide a simpler and more streamlined customer relationship management software solution than its competitors. As powerful as services like Salesforce may be, the truth is that many businesses, especially smaller ones and sole proprietor companies, don’t need (or want to deal with) all those bells and whistles. Less Annoying CRM bills itself as one of the cleanest and most user-friendly CRM software suites out there. It’s also one of the cheapest.
The basic plan starts at $15 per user per month, and you get a 30-day trial period to give everything a whirl without having to commit any money. Its web-based software is slick and intuitive, and it offers mobile support as well. In fact, Less Annoying CRM has some of the best mobile website integration we’ve seen. It also provides all the basics of what you want CRM software to do, from email marketing and contact management to lead generation and third-party worfklow app integration.
The drawback of that simplicity and ease of use is that some of its features are a bit basic, but that’s to be expected (and if you want a simpler and more easy-to-use CRM suite, then you’ve probably already accepted this trade-off). For instance, its reporting capabilities fall behind the competition. Nevertheless, Less Annoying CRM is one of the best CRM software platforms for small- to mid-sized businesses, startups, and sole proprietor enterprises that are looking for something simple and easy to use.
Learn More Editors' Recommendations Semrush Free Trial: Try the advanced online marketing tool The best business laptops 15 best online jobs for teens in 2022 4 ways to find employees online fast in 2022 The best VoIP services for small businesses for 2022 Business CRM Software Computing Now that hybrid work and working from home are the new normal for many people, you might want to consider protecting your PC, especially if you use it for work. Yet, for years, if you wanted the best antivirus software, you had to pay for genuine protection and security.
Any free antivirus software admittedly lacked some critical features, like fraud protection or link blocking. While some antivirus programs cost money, there are plenty of free options with fantastic features. You don’t always have to miss out on features like malware blockers just because these antivirus options are free. Plus, you can download these programs and start using them immediately.
The best free antivirus software at a glance Computing Voice over Internet Protocol, or VoIP, is a popular alternative to landlines, especially in the business world. VoIP providers deliver digital telephone services that rely on the internet for voice and video calls. The main advantages of VoIP are that you can make long-distance calls at a very affordable price and benefit from a faster connection compared to a traditional landline.
A VoIP service is worth considering if you run a small business or make a lot of international phone calls, but comparing different VoIP providers can be challenging if you’re not familiar with the technology. We’ve compared different VoIP services to help you find the best provider to fit your needs.
RingCentral Business If you're looking to take your productivity up a notch (or if you're just a really slow typist), the best speech-to-text software is a sure way to do it. The idea is pretty simple: You speak, and the software detects your words and converts them into text format. The applications are nearly endless, from dictating thoughts and jotting down notes to creating long-form documents without having to type a word yourself. Yet despite this, not many businesses and professionals are taking full advantage of what speech-to-text software can give them.
The good news is that the best speech-to-text software doesn't have to cost an arm and a leg -- or anything at all, depending on your needs. There's a handful of noteworthy services out there, though, and selecting the right one is important. That's where we come in. Below, we've rounded up the best speech-to-text software platforms out there, with our picks covering a wide spectrum of platforms, features, and price points.
Dragon Anywhere Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
