Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Way to Hire Employees Highest Paying Jobs Best Business Laptops What is RingCentral? Best VPN Best Job Search Sites Home Business Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The Best Hiring Apps for Recruiters By Briley Kenney Close Image used with permission by copyright holder This content was produced in partnership with ZipRecruiter.
The best employment software, and comparable mobile applications, offer a valuable set of tools for hiring managers, HR, and even recruiters. They essentially streamline the candidate search and onboarding processes, making it easier to find potential hires but also to communicate, engage, and research them more in-depth. It stands to reason then that the best hiring apps for recruiters are the same hiring resources that nearly every professional can use, and while that may be true, there’s one exception. Recruiting specific tools make it easier for recruiters to seek out and secure top-tier talent, and to continue that consistently. That means they include talent sourcing tools, interviewing, and communication tools, and sometimes scheduling and calendar tools to keep everything organized.
You might not think they’re much different, but for recruiters, the best hiring apps also offer a reliable way to keep their finger on the pulse of the very broad talent pool. In light of that, here are the best hiring apps for recruiters: Hiring managers need to see this: tips to hire top talent in your sector How to post a job on Google and hire the best candidates Find exceptional talent: the best hiring platforms for small businesses Best Overall: ZipRecruiter Image used with permission by copyright holder ZipRecruiter is the leading hiring app for professionals, connecting employers with job seekers across the United States and Canada. The app allows recruiters to post job openings to over 100 job sites with just one click, and then engage with potential applicants and candidates until the role(s) is filled. It is easy to use and offers a clean and enjoyable interface, whether you’re browsing from desktop or mobile.
ZipRecruiter’s innovative technology helps to identify the best candidates for each position, and the app also offers recruiting-specific features like team collaboration tools and interview scheduling. ZipRecruiter’s resume database is also a standout feature, which allows recruiters to seek out and contact top candidates directly. The “Invite to Apply” option that’s available when posting jobs will send automatic and pre-written messages to suitable candidates, inviting them to apply for the role with detailed information about the position. This puts potential opportunities in front of more people than just posting the job and leaving it public. The platform offers various pricing plans, making it suitable for businesses of all sizes. With ZipRecruiter, recruiters can save a lot of time and effort in finding the right candidates for their open positions.
LinkedIn Recruiter LinkedIn Recruiter is a powerful hiring app that provides recruiters with access to over 740 million members worldwide. That may seem daunting, but it provides plenty of granular tools to connect employers and recruiters with the right people. Contact searches can be fine-tuned to seek out candidates based on a variety of criteria, including location, industry, and job title. LinkedIn Recruiter also offers features like candidate tracking, messaging via LinkedIn InMail, and team collaboration tools.
More importantly, everything can be managed from LinkedIn, the social network, which is a single platform, and from any device, even on the go. This is crucial for busy professionals, as they can engage, message, and interact anytime they get a moment, from the morning commute to some downtime after a big company meeting. They also don’t have to swap services, tools, or applications, and can check in from just about anywhere, at any time. The key benefit here is that so many are already using LinkedIn, the leap to its recruiter platform is minimal. If you’re the type of person to sign-in to LinkedIn every morning or day, then it’s right up your alley. Recruiter may be a tool exclusive to the platform, but you can also handle most tasks through the standard social network, on both desktop and mobile.
Indeed Indeed is a popular job board and hiring app that allows recruiters to post job openings and search for candidates. With over 250 million job seekers worldwide, Indeed offers a massive pool of potential candidates for recruiters to choose from, and the app also offers features like candidate tracking and job posting analytics. It goes beyond that, as well, providing extra tools to identify people that truly fit the open role. For example, pre-testing, which is unique to Indeed, allows employers and recruiters to narrow down the talent pool to a niche list of applicants based on skills and other parameters. They’re subjected to a quick aptitude test, with real-life simulations, and real-time answers that give employers a true look at a person’s abilities. They might fit the role on paper, but are they a match in the field? The app also allows recruiters to set up automated email alerts for new candidates, making it easier to stay on top of new applications. You can also use the platform to auto-configure assessments — like mini-skill tests — and handle interview scheduling. If an applicant passes with flying colors the interview is automatically scheduled based on the recruiter or hiring managers’ availability. This takes a lot of the guesswork out of the onboarding process and keeps everyone on the same page. It also speeds up everything and ensures that employers and recruiters don’t miss out on top talent.
Glassdoor Glassdoor, as almost everyone is aware, is a job board like many others, yes, but it also offers a unique feature — company reviews and ratings from current and former employees. This app allows recruiters to post job openings and search for candidates while also providing insight into company culture and reputation. It makes it so much easier for recruiters to identify who they want to work with and support, whether they’re interested in more sustainable and eco-friendly companies, or just socially-responsible companies that haven’t been affected by a swarm of negative reviews and bad PR.
Glassdoor also offers features you’ve come to expect from all job boards, like candidate tracking and interview scheduling. Rich analytics and insights will back every move, and every decision, helping you both manage and amplify talent acquisition. Plus, thanks to a partnership with Indeed, bundled products are available to get even more out of the hiring and candidate-search process. For example, recruiters can tap into Indeed reviews and ratings comparisons, or expanded insights from Indeed reviews, allowing opportunities to leverage insights from both places and really dig into the company, candidates, and onboarding solutions.
SmartRecruiters Used by over 5,000 businesses globally, SmartRecruiters is a comprehensive talent acquisition solution for attracting and onboarding exceptional talent. It is a cloud-based hiring app that integrates with other services like career sites, social media, and beyond. It also gives recruiters access to a bevy of intelligent tools, AI included, for candidate matching, automated screening, candidate scorecards, and much much more. It streamlines the entire professional search, hire, and onboarding experience. Even after hiring, there are built-in e-signature tools, background screening, and reference checking options, and so much more.
For recruiters specifically, this app allows you to post job openings, search for candidates, and manage the entire hiring process from one platform. SmartRecruiters also offers features like candidate screening, video interviewing, and job offer management. Where most other job platforms focus on hiring and then stop there, this one covers the before, during, and after stages too.
Workable Workable is an all-in-one hiring platform and recruitment solution that offers a variety of features to help find and hire the best candidates. Recruiters can post job listings to over 180 available boards, quickly, including across platforms you might not find elsewhere such as LinkedIn and other social media networks. Hiring managers and recruiters can also fully customize application forms to better align them with company branding or make them much more engaging for potential candidates.
Workable’s analytics opportunities are the standout. Recruiters can use this information to create candidate scorecards and better identify who fits a role and why. Comments can also be added to those scorecards, and tracked, as other recruiters and hiring managers have individual experiences. This can be invaluable for seeing the ‘bigger picture’ about a potential candidate. Other reporting tools allow you to see where applications are coming from, to identify the most pertinent hiring board for a role or company, and there’s also support for EEO reporting and background checks.
Breezy HR Built from the ground up, Breezy HR is more focused on automating core elements of recruiting and HR processes, particularly for small to medium-sized operations with fewer resources. Some examples of automated tasks include candidate pre-screening, interview scheduling, messaging, and beyond. It also automates feedback collection, especially from team members on a group-based hiring panel. This can speed up hiring significantly when there are many people involved, as opposed to a single hiring manager. It also helps smaller teams tackle bigger experiences, for example, communicating actively and openly with a large pool of candidates. Imagine trying to message every single applicant manually, an of your own accord? That would be tedious and nearly impossible.
There is a browser extension, for the most popular web browsers, that makes posting jobs easier across platforms like ZipRecruiter, LinkedIn, Glassdoor, and many others. You can also get those job listings live within a few clicks or less. It’s quick, easy, and relatively painless, and the after-tracking is made easier too. Finding qualified or top-tier candidates is possible with the amount of analytics you receive, and Breezy integrates with other platforms like Slack if you already have a full-stack solution in place for internal communication. Integrations are always welcome as most businesses have an established series of programs and applications they use, and it would be a hassle making a swap to new solutions — for instance, using something other than Slack.
JazzHR Boiled down to the basics, JazzHR is an excellent tool for small to medium-sized businesses looking to tap into easy-to-use and quality recruiting software. With its mantra of “recruit better, hire faster,” you get access to candidate sourcing, interviews, assessments, collaborative hiring tools, and compliance and reporting solutions too. Recruiters will benefit from the unlimited job posting opportunities, with highly customizable automation — that you can tailor to meet your needs. Recruiters can also tap into the customizable scorecards to evaluate candidates based on specific criteria.
Integrations with all the major services improve usability, with some examples being ZipRecruiter, HackerRank, LinkedIn, Monster, Salesforce, and Microsoft Exchange. You don’t have to stop using the tools and platforms you’re already using, but instead there’s a lot to gain here to find candidates, interact with them, and then onboard them across various brands.
Alternatives While we may not have covered them here, there are a few other alternatives if you want to see what else is available, including: Calendly TestGorilla Monster Magical Homebase Textrecruit ApplicantStack Onboard Shapr Editors' Recommendations How to hire remote workers It’s time to consider virtual machines: VMware’s Fusion Pro and Workstation Pro Need Help? These Are the Best places to hire people online Take the Stress Out of Managing Your Business Taxes with QuickBooks Online This Tool Can Seriously Help You Grow Your Small Business Deals Best Products Business Business This content was produced in partnership with Intuit.
For the average employed person, tax season is a relative breeze. Pop in some W-2 information and watch the refunds accumulate. At least that's what it seems like from the outside, for the increasing number of us who make money via freelancing, side hustles, and small businesses. For us, tax season can be a real headache and the endless forms for dozens of income streams can feel like a minefield.
What's worse is that guidance has never been so terrible. Established businesses have tax-prep procedures built up over the years and the resources to hire teams to get the nasty bits done, while millennials – and our younger, Gen Z friends – feel left in the dust. Doing a little Google Sheets data entry and praying that PayPal won't make any mistakes with their new reporting requirement is rough enough. Trying to put this information into unfeeling, computerized boxes that don't always match 1-to-1 with what you are wanting is enough to warrant full-on panic.
Deals This content was produced in partnership with ZipRecruiter.
There's no question, we're in a strange market. There are many opportunities out there, but some of the bigger tech companies are laying people off due to the troubled economy. Some have even imposed a hiring freeze, but that doesn't mean you can't find openings in a tech field. Quite the opposite is true, actually, especially if you know where to look, and more importantly, how to prepare. It doesn't matter whether you already have a job or not, as it may be time to move on and advance your career, or simply look for a much better opportunity. Whatever the case, preparing for new roles, updating your resume, and practicing your interviewing skills, are just the beginning. There's a lot to do, and it can certainly be easy to overlook critical steps. That's precisely why we've put together this guide, detailing 10 tips that can help you find a new tech role, prepare for potential openings, and kickstart your job search journey. They're relevant if you already have a job, but also if you're looking for gainful employment altogether.
1. Define what you're looking for The tech industry is varied, and there are a lot of roles and opportunities, some even being iterations of larger roles -- like WordPress developer versus software developer, or UX designer versus UI designer. Maybe you're looking for a better opportunity than what you have currently, or maybe you want to find that diamond in the rough. Whatever your plan, you won't recognize a good opportunity if you don't already know what you're looking for. In other words, take some time to sit down and think about what it is you want.
What constitutes an ideal career path for you? Consider your desired salary range, the type of work you're willing to do, whether you're okay with branching out, if you're willing to relocate, what kind of benefits you need, or want, and much more. This is the time to decide if you want to stick with remote or hybrid opportunities versus traditional in-office roles. You might also explore your skillset to understand what unorthodox roles you qualify for. There could be other career paths or opportunities you didn't even realize existed.
2. Define your key disqualifiers What are bad qualities that you dislike or don't want to see in a potential opportunity? Some tech roles will be way out in left field, and may not even be a good fit for your knowledge, expertise, and skills. Are there verifiable red flags or pain points that you know you want to avoid? There are a lot of buzzwords and phrases used in job postings that can help you suss out undesirable positions.
Deals This content was produced in partnership with Intuit.
Starting a new business is no small feat, and that's true regardless of how big your team is, whether you're a young entrepreneur hustling solo or you have a crew on your payroll. But modern and digital tools make it a whole lot easier, offering both convenient and highly-capable solutions for the average business. You can do things that big businesses do, but with far less resources. For example, Intuit's QuickBooks suite helps you auto-track business income and expenses, pay your employees and partners, and file your taxes, streamlining and automating your bookkeeping. In fact, QuickBooks is one of the best solutions for managing a business, and QuickBooks Online kicks that up a notch.
gives you anytime, anywhere access to business tools for stress-free financial planning and more. Let's take a close look at how Intuit's suite, including QuickBooks Online and Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
