Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Way to Hire Employees Highest Paying Jobs Best Business Laptops What is RingCentral? Best VPN Best Job Search Sites Home Business Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Find exceptional talent: the best hiring platforms for small businesses By Briley Kenney Close Image used with permission by copyright holder This content was produced in partnership with ZipRecruiter.
Best Overall: ZipRecruiter LinkedIn Indeed Workable Jobvite CareerBuilder ClearCompany Honorable Mentions Without the right talent or the right people rather, no business could thrive, big or small. But finding top talent is extremely crucial for small businesses, especially when it comes to remaining competitive in today’s market. Smaller operations generally have limited resources, so it’s necessary to improve productivity and efficiency wherever possible, which is precisely where securing good talent comes into the picture. But how do you find those people? The answer is via hiring platforms a la ZipRecruiter. They not only bring in the talent but also help you better understand the people, their work histories, and their overall expertise. Moreover, they help streamline the hiring process making it easier to find relevant candidates.
In light of that, here are the seven best hiring platforms for small businesses that can help you secure a competitive edge with top-tier talent: Best Overall: ZipRecruiter You’ve likely heard of it already and for good reason. ZipRecruiter is convenient and definitely makes it easier to find top talent — and helps top-tier talent find you. You can utilize job posting templates, to create listings, which are then shared on over 100 job sites, for free. All of it takes just minutes to set up which means you can have a job listing ready and candidates flowing in almost immediately.
Better yet, once your listing is live, ZipRecruiter’s excellent analytics tools will help you identify the top applicants, and even reach out to potential candidates for the role(s). The Invite to Apply feature, for example, automatically finds qualified candidates, lets them know about the open role, and then urges them to apply.
LinkedIn It makes sense that a social network built from the ground up for professionals would be a great place to find new hires, but LinkedIn’s Talent Solutions platform is really a useful tool for small to medium-sized businesses. When you post an open role, you instantly gain access to LinkedIn’s valuable data and insights — generated from years of pros using the platform to network and seek new opportunities. In short, that means you are connected with some of the best talent out there, and they have an easier time applying for your roles.
You can use both the desktop and mobile dashboards to review or learn about candidates. The latter is important if you’re always on the go and need to check from mobile in your downtime. It’s a reliable way to get your job listings in front of over 850 million potential candidates.
Indeed Indeed is better compared to a job search engine with recruiting and hiring features baked in. You can also generate more exposure through paid and sponsored job listings — it puts your position out in front of the most relevant candidates and helps garner interest. When you post a listing you have full control over what happens. You can adjust your budget, pause, or even remove listings at any time.
Indeed features 71.8 million active monthly users, many of them ready to find work as soon as possible. You can also tap into helpful resources to improve your search, like seeing top candidates at a glance, choosing who moves forward and who doesn’t, and spearheading virtual interviews with all-encompassing candidate data.
Workable Workable’s distinction is that it’s incredibly easy to use, and anyone can jump in and get a job posting live, which is then broadcast to over 200 job sites. It also integrates seamlessly with Gmail and Outlook, so you get a smoother communication and scheduling experience. You can ensure correspondence or virtual meetings are always noted on your calendar, for example.
Workable also simplifies the face-to-face side of hiring, with native one-way video interviews, live video integrations, and more. It’s all through the single platform, no going elsewhere, so you can get everything done right in Workable. Global support is available too, and with a free trial, you can access premium hiring features for up to 15 days with no cost or no credit card required.
Post a Job Now Jobvite As an end-to-end talent acquisition platform, Jobvite is truly a comprehensive tool for finding good talent and streamlining the hiring process. It integrates with your existing tech stack — applications you’re already using — to completely enhance the new-hire pipeline. You can use the platform to find people, hire and onboard them, and tap into robust insights like benchmark reporting to see how your recruiting practices stack up and what that means for your community.
In addition, you can post job listings to career sites, and then utilize AI and chatbots to really upscale the experience. Chatbots handle candidate screening, communications, on-demand nurture events, and much more. As a small business owner, you don’t have to go into the hiring experience alone, certainly not with Jobvite’s support.
Find Applicants Now CareerBuilder With integrated hiring systems, backed by AI solutions, CareerBuilder.com makes posting and discovery fast, efficient, and effective. They promise listing creation is up to five times faster, with a reach of over 90 million qualified and active jobseekers. Direct and automated candidate messaging makes it simple to coordinate with top-tier talents too. Think of it as a talent acquisition suite, complete with virtual and in-person hiring events.
Small businesses can benefit from the free trial, allowing you to post your job(s) for free and then access a pay-as-you-go structure. You can easily choose between monthly or annual plans that fit within your budget.
ClearCompany Applicant tracking, onboarding, employee engagement — after they’re hired — and performance management are all staples of ClearCompany’s platform. These are solutions that a small to medium-sized business normally wouldn’t benefit from without a more robust, and likely expensive, suite of tools. But here, it’s all included, and “talent maximization” is the core focus. It offers both a hiring platform and an HR-focused support tool, separately yet connected, of course.
Digital, candidate-driven recruiting is available, for both desktop and mobile, to help businesses and managers find the right people for the job. Job seekers can apply right from their phones, as well. You can also access a bevy of hiring tools during the initial stages, like an interview scorecard, personal insights, and more.
Find Applicants Now Honorable Mentions If you need some more places to look, there are plenty of other hiring platforms out there, including: SmartRecruiters Freshteam CyberCoders Zoho BreezyHR FlexJobs Editors' Recommendations How to hire remote workers How to post a job on Google and hire the best candidates Need Help? These Are the Best places to hire people online 10 tips to help you find a new tech role even if you already have a job 5 reasons your business needs to switch to the Zoho CRM software Business Business We live in the era of online work, and at the center of that is digital communication. Whether you do your job from home (or another location outside) or you work in an office environment, team coordination is an essential part of any workflow, and having the wrong communication tools can jam things up and hamper productivity. VoIP services like RingCentral solve this problem, offering a streamlined and complete communications suite for phone, video calls, conferencing, and more, with flexible plans tailor-made to meet the needs and challenges of businesses operating in the digital age. Here's everything you need to know about RingCentral and how it can help your company.
What is RingCentral? RingCentral is a Voice over Internet Protocol service. At its most basic, VoIP is a protocol that allows users to make telephone calls over an internet connection rather than a traditional landline. That sounds simple, but RingCentral is actually much more than that. Its Message, Video, and Phone (MVP) plans offer complete communications and team management solutions tailored for businesses large and small, and are designed to fully optimize team projects and workflow in a world that grows more internet-connected every day.
Deals This content was produced in partnership with ONLYOFFICE.
Whether you work and collaborate with your colleagues from home, run a small business, or manage a team of employees (or maybe you do some combination of those), having good collaborative software is vital -- and in many cases, free apps like Google Docs don't cut it. ONLYOFFICE is a more comprehensive cloud-based office productivity suite used by millions around the globe. And for a limited time, Digital Trends readers can sign up for the Business plan at a 20% discount. Here's what you need to know about ONLYOFFICE, including its new OFORMs feature, and what it can do for you.
Sign Up Now Cloud-based software is hardly new. Google almost single-handedly revolutionized how people work and collaborate online when it released Google Docs and Google Drive, but as the world has grown increasingly digitized and internet-connected -- especially in the past two years -- these rather simple free apps haven't quite kept up with the growing needs of professionals and small businesses.
ONLYOFFICE provides a more complete and full-featured cloud-based app suite and is a great alternative to Google Docs and even to paid software with online features, such as Microsoft Office. In a nutshell, it’s an open-source office package for text documents, spreadsheets, presentations, and fillable forms. With ONLYOFFICE, you can easily create a collaborative cloud environment for a team of any size or create a virtual workspace on-premises by integrating the editors with a document management system or file-sharing platform. The list of available integration options includes such well-known solutions as SharePoint, Nextcloud, ownCloud, Redmine, Alfresco, Confluence, Nuxeo, Moodle, and so on.
Deals This content was produced in partnership with ZipRecruiter.
Hiring the right people is a crucial part of developing your business. The best person for the job will be one that shares your vision, is highly responsible, appropriately skilled, and is an efficient worker. You know what you want from your next employee but what do you do when it comes to finding that person? With many different sources out there for finding the best way to hire employees, we've picked out the best places to hire people online including ways to find employees online fast or for a long-term commitment. There are dozens of sites available but it's important to pick the best outlet for the task, so you can spend less time on your recruitment drive and more time interviewing the best candidates for the job. Take a look below at the best places to hire people online.
ZipRecruiter One of the most reliable names in the job posting world, ZipRecruiter is a great way of finding staff and quickly. It aims to make the hiring process as smooth as possible. It works by connecting to more than 100 job boards so the moment you create a job listing for your firm, ZipRecruiter posts it across the huge network so you're casting the net as wide as possible without having to manually create job listings at numerous sources.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
