Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Way to Hire Employees Highest Paying Jobs Best Business Laptops What is RingCentral? Best VPN Best Job Search Sites Home Business Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best VoIP services for small businesses for 2022 By Lucas Coll Close Communication is an essential part of doing business online, from the simplest calls and text messages to large-scale video conferences involving dozens or even hundreds of people. Unfortunately, most of the free communication apps most of us use every day aren’t really built for anything other than simple messaging and therefore aren’t up to meeting the demands of modern companies.
RingCentral Ooma Office Intermedia Unite 8×8 X Series Microsoft Teams Phone with Calling Plan That’s why any small business looking to streamline its operations in the digital age should invest in a more comprehensive Voice over Internet Protocol (better known as a VoIP) service. But if you don’t even know where to start with this, don’t fret. We’ve got everything you need to know about the best VoIP services for small businesses to set you and your burgeoning enterprise sailing in the right direction.
RingCentral Image used with permission by copyright holder Cloud or Integrated Phone: Both Clients Supported: Mac, Windows, iOS, Android Cost: From $20/month per user Users: 20 on Essentials tier, unlimited for higher tiers Third-party integrations: Yes Free trial: Yes, plus free video messaging plan RingCentral has stood at the top of our list of the best VoIP services for years now for a laundry list of reasons. It’s easy to set up and use, it offers competitive pricing and very flexible packages that you can tailor to your specific needs, and — perhaps most importantly — its VoIP services are fast and reliable.
The best way to hire employees in 2022 The best VoIP services for 2022 The best mileage apps for small businesses in 2022 RingCentral’s core VoIP product is its MVP (or messaging, video, and phone) plans, of which there are four. The Essentials plan includes calls, SMS messaging, voicemail (and voicemail-to-text), team messaging, and document sharing, Upgraded tiers add more features such as audio and video conferencing, integrations with third-party workflow and e-commerce apps, advanced call handling functions, call analytics, and more. Which plan you choose depends entirely on the size and needs of your business.
The RingCentral pricing model is very reasonable and it’s easy to tailor your package to your specific requirements. Pricing ranges from $20 to $70 per user per month, with the price decreasing as your number of users increases (you also save more by paying annually instead of monthly). If you want to give it a spin, there’s a free trial available as well as a totally free RingCentral Video plan that offers basic video calling. That’s a great way to acquaint yourself with the service before committing to a plan.
Ooma Office Image used with permission by copyright holder Cloud or Integrated Phone: Both Clients Supported: Mac, Windows, iOS, Android Cost: From $20/month per user Users: Unlimited Third-party integrations: Yes, with Enterprise plans Free trial: No Ooma is another one of the best VoIP services for small businesses thanks to its flexibility and scaled service options. In fact, you don’t even need a monthly plan to use Ooma Office — you can start with just one of its VoIP phones and use it to make calls with your existing internet service. Of course, if you want a more comprehensive VoIP package, then Ooma offers that, too (along with plenty of extras).
There are two VoIP services for small businesses: Ooma Office and Ooma Office Pro. Both offer the standard internet-connected phone and messaging services, with the Office Pro plan adding some additional features like video conferencing, dedicated desktop software, call recording, and voicemail transcription, among others. Plans start at $20 per user per month for the Ooma Office plan or $5 more for the Office Pro tier There are Enterprise plans available as well, which include extras like third-party app integrations. These are generally designed for larger companies and high-volume call environments such as call centers, but one of the great things about Ooma is its flexibility — if there are features you want in the higher tiers, you can get a custom quote from Ooma. There’s no free trial, unfortunately, but you do get a free consultation to help you decide if Ooma is right for your small business.
Intermedia Unite Cloud or Integrated Phone: Both Clients Supported: Mac, Windows, iOS, Android Cost: From $28/month per user Users: Up to 200 Third-party integrations: Yes Free trial: No With one of the largest sets of features, Intermedia Unite is easily one of the best VoIP for small businesses that are looking for a truly professional-grade setup. Intermedia Unite offers both integrated VoIP handset phones as well as desktop and mobile apps for cloud use, giving you a full suite of communication, project coordination, and customer service functions.
Like Ooma, Intermedia offers two VoIP plans under its Unite umbrella. The Unite Pro tier provides all the essentials for small businesses: Calling, texting, call recording, voicemail transcription, team messaging, cloud file backup and sharing, audio and video conferences (including transcriptions and unlimited recordings), to name just a handful of features. The Unite Enterprise adds a few extras like an exchange mailbox and integration with e-commerce apps such as Salesforce.
One great thing about Intermedia Unite is that, while it’s a little more expensive than other VoIP services, you get more for your money — even the Unite Pro plan includes extended third-party software integrations and advanced analytics, which are typically premium upgrades from other companies. Baseline pricing starts at $28 per user per month, but for the best quote, you’ll have to contact Intermedia directly to get the best package tailored to your small business.
8×8 X Series 8x8 Cloud or Integrated Phone: Both Clients Supported: Mac, Windows, iOS, Android Cost: From $15/month per user Users: Up to 10 on Express tier, unlimited on higher tiers Third-party integrations: Yes (some only available with upgraded plans) Free trial: Yes, for Express plan Another one of the best VoIP services for small businesses is 8×8, which offers perhaps the widest range of packages in its X Series service plans. The basics 8×8 Express package is purpose-made for small business communications. It offers all the essentials for up to 10 users, including call handling, voice and video messaging, voicemail, and an auto-attendant, and it does it all seamlessly in one app (although it works with many physical VoIP phones as well).
Above that, there are five X Series packages — X2, X4, X6, X8, and X10 — which add advanced functions like video conferences, integration with popular third-party software like Microsoft 365 and Slack, advanced call monitoring, call and speech analytics, and more. With six packages to choose from, 8×8 has a lot to offer, although most small to mid-sized companies will be served best by the Express, X2, and X4 plans. The X2 tier also unlocks unlimited international calling to 14 countries, while the X4 plan offers unlimited voice calls to 48 countries.
This is one of the cheaper VoIP services for small businesses, too, starting at $15 per user per month for the Express tier. The 8×8 X2 plan is arguably the best bet for small businesses, as it unlocks some nice advanced features and third-party app integrations for only $24 per user per month.
Microsoft Teams Phone with Calling Plan Image used with permission by copyright holder Cloud or Integrated Phone: Cloud Clients Supported: Mac, Windows, iOS, Android Cost: From $15/month per user (in addition to base Microsoft 365 subscription) Users: 300; 5 devices per user Third-party integrations: Yes Free trial: Yes Microsoft Office is a trademark everybody recognizes, although the company recently rebranded it to Microsoft 365.
 Despite the name change, it’s still the same great enterprise software suite we all know, and it’s kept up to date with the latest in cloud software technology. Many are also familiar with the newer Microsoft Teams service, and maybe you already use this yourself. That has been increasingly integrated into the 365 app ecosystem, and now you can get a dedicated VoIP service in the Microsoft Teams Phone with Calling Plan (formerly Microsoft 365 Business Voice) as an optional add-on to your Microsoft 365 subscription.
This is a good option for small businesses that already use or are planning to use Microsoft 365, and it precludes you from having to seek out a separate VoIP provider that you can integrate with 365 apps. Although most of the best VoIP services for small businesses can work with Microsoft 365, Microsoft Teams, and other third-party software, that functionality is typically locked behind upgraded tiers. The Microsoft Teams Phone with Calling Plan could be a more economical alternative depending on what your needs are.
Note that, like Microsoft Teams, the Phone with Calling Plan is entirely cloud-based. It works on Windows, MacOS, Android , and iOS, so you can install and use it on your computers and mobile devices (and you’re not forced into using Windows to do it, either). It offers streamlined audio and video calls, conferences for up to 300 people, and team messaging and file sharing, along with advanced features like call transfer, auto attendants, and call queues. Each user gets 3,000 minutes per month in the U.S. and Canada. It’s a little more limited than full-service VoIP packages, but it’s a cheaper alternative for those looking for a simpler software-based solution. The Microsoft Teams Phone with Calling Plan costs $15 per user per month on top of your Microsoft 365 subscription.
Editors' Recommendations The best accounting software for your small business The best CRM software for your business in 2022 The best firewalls for small businesses in 2022 The best small business routers The Best VPNs for small businesses Computing Business Business If you've got limited physical hard drive space or you simply want to keep your files safely backed up elsewhere, cloud storage is a huge help. When it comes to small business, such data and files is even more valuable. After all, it's bad enough if you lose personal photos or information, but losing vital data in your business could cost you a lot of time and money, as well as potentially your reputation.
We've checked out the best cloud storage services for your small business, looking at what's best depending on the size of your company, as well as any potential requirements you might have for how your data is accessed such as end-to-end encryption or two-factor authentication. We've also looked at some cloud services which offer free storage for a limited time, or up to a certain amount of space. Products like Apple's iCloud service, OneDrive, and Google Drive often provide some free cloud storage to get you started with their services.
Business Landline phone services are slowly but surely going the way of the dinosaur, with more individuals relying solely on their mobile devices for making calls. Businesses, however, have continued to rely on traditional landlines for professional use, but that’s also changing now thanks to internet-based VoIP services from providers like RingCentral, one of the most popular and highest-rated names in the business.
VoIP, or “voice over internet protocol,” simply uses the internet rather than landlines or cell networks to provide voice services. It makes perfect sense considering the internet is just a method for transmitting data quickly across large distances – after all, the internet originally used our telephone lines to do just that.
Business You wouldn't leave your shop or office door unlocked, and neither should you leave your business PC or Mac unsecured against anti-virus threats and other problems. Norton and McAfee offer extensive options for small business owners, and it's important you pick the right software package or subscription for your company's needs. Both companies have made our short list of the best antivirus solutions for small businesses.
A competent antivirus solution is the first line of defense against potential hacks or virus attacks, so you need it to work effectively for you.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
