Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Way to Hire Employees Highest Paying Jobs Best Business Laptops What is RingCentral? Best VPN Best Job Search Sites Home Business Features Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best VoIP phone systems for businesses large and small By Lucas Coll Close Whether you run a small business out of your home, you manage a large company with hundreds or thousands of people, or you’re in charge of an enterprise that falls somewhere in between those, a VoIP service can do a lot. VoIP, short for Voice over Internet Protocol, essentially integrates all of your inbound, outbound, and internal communications into a single service platform that operates entirely over your high-speed internet rather than traditional landlines. If you’re looking to streamline your company for the digital age and better coordinate teamwork between your colleagues, here are the best VoIP phone systems out there right now.
RingCentral Ooma Office Nextiva GoTo Connect 8×8 X Series RingCentral Image used with permission by copyright holder Cloud or Integrated Phone: Both Cloud-hosted or on-premise PBX: Cloud-hosted Cost: From $20/month per user Users: 20 on Essentials tier, unlimited for higher tiers Third-party integrations: Yes Trial period: 30 days, plus free video messaging plan If you want to cut right to the chase to the best of the best VoIP services , then look no further than RingCentral , which has been our favorite for a few years running now. Its VoIP packages are offered in its MVP (message, video, and phone) plans, which start at $20 per month per user depending on the tier and how many people will be using the network. There are four RingCentral MVP plans and all of them offer toll-free numbers, unlimited text messaging and calls within the U.S. and Canada, team messaging, cloud file sharing, and voicemail transcriptions.
Advanced plans unlock added features like advanced call handling functions like call monitoring and hot-desking, third-party software integrations (with workflow and e-commerce apps such as Slack, Microsoft Teams , Microsoft 365, Amazon, Oracle, Salesforce, and Zendesk, to name only a handful of many), video conferencing, call and meeting recording, and call analytics. RingCentral also supports cloud-hosted private branch exchange (PBX) and allows you to adapt your legacy PBX system, if you have one, to your RingCentral plan.
How to set up your VoIP service in 5 easy steps with RingCentral RingCentral MVP works on laptops and mobile devices, and you can use it with integrated VoIP phones as well. There’s a 30-day trial period for all plan tiers and there’s also the RingCentral Video plan that allows for free unlimited video calling.
Ooma Office Image used with permission by copyright holder Cloud or Integrated Phone: Both Cloud-hosted or on-premise PBX: Cloud-hosted Cost: From $20/month per user Users: Unlimited Third-party integrations: Yes, with Enterprise plans Trial period: 30 days for the mobile app Ooma Office is another top choice among the best VoIP phone systems and is similar to RingCentral in a lot of ways. It’s one of our favorite options if you’re specifically looking for an integrated communications package for use with physical VoIP phones, and you can even adapt your analog phones for use with your Ooma Office plan. Of course, you can do everything via the Ooma Office mobile app if you want, just as with other VoIP services. Whether you’re managing a team of remote workers or setting up a new phone system for a physical brick-and-mortar business, Ooma Office can help.
For small businesses, Ooma offers two different plans. Both offer a mobile app, text messaging, call encryption, a toll-free number, voicemail-to-email attachments, and a virtual receptionist. However, you’ll have to upgrade to the Ooma Office Pro plan to unlock features like the desktop app, video conferencing, voicemail-to-text transcriptions, call recording, and third-party software integrations.
Ooma Office also employs cloud-based PBX, and if you’re using physical phones in your business, you can either adapt your existing analog phones for use with Ooma or you can buy new VoIP phones directly from the company. These VoIP phones allow for a lot more functionality than traditional analog phones, allowing you to do things like make video calls. There’s also a 30-day trial period for the Ooma mobile app.
Nextiva Image used with permission by copyright holder Cloud or Integrated Phone: Both Cloud-hosted or on-premise PBX: Cloud-hosted Cost: From $18/month Users: Unlimited Third-party integrations: Yes (some only available with upgraded plans) Trial period: 7 days for Essentials plan Nextiva consistently ranks among the best VoIP phone systems for businesses, and it’s a cost-effective option for larger companies or ones that are expecting considerable growth in the future. That’s because it offers one of the better pricing tiers, as well as an allowance for unlimited users even on its most basic plan (unlike RingCentral, which caps the number of users you can have on its entry-level service tiers).
Nextiva is an all-in-one cloud-based VoIP service and offers cloud PBX (you can adapt a legacy PBX system to Nextiva as well). As with RingCentral, Nextiva offers four service packages. All of them feature unlimited voice and video calls, internet fax, an auto-attendant, toll-free numbers, voicemail-to-email, and apps for both desktop and mobile. As you would expect, more advanced features like third-party software integration, call analytics, video conferencing, and voicemail transcription are locked behind the higher tiers. Unlimited text messaging isn’t available on the basic Essentials plan, either; you’ll have to upgrade to the second-tier “Professional” plan for that, which is a drawback.
There’s only a seven-day free trial period for Nextiva, though, and that’s only for the Essentials plan, so unfortunately you can’t really give the full service a spin for very long. You also have to commit to a yearly subscription to get the lowest per-user price, but that’s usually the case with VoIP services in general. Nonetheless, Nextiva is a great VoIP phone system for businesses or any size, and especially for larger and growing enterprises looking to streamline their communications systems for the digital age.
GoTo Connect Image used with permission by copyright holder Cloud or Integrated Phone: Both Cloud-hosted or on-premise PBX: Cloud-hosted Cost: From $19/month per user Users: 20 on Basic tier, unlimited for higher tiers Third-party integrations: Yes Trial period: 14 days for Standard plan GoTo Connect is a VoIP phone system that’s tailor-made for small businesses with a straightforward pricing model that includes three service tiers starting at $19 per user per month. The Basic plan includes mobile and desktop apps, smart call routing and forwarding, text and group messaging, audio and video calls, unlimited phone number extensions, and integration with Microsoft Outlook and Google Workspace.
The higher-priced Standard and Premium tiers add extras like expanded third-party app integrations, internet fax, toll-free minutes, advanced call handling, and more. GoTo Connect Premium also features cloud-based contact center features including call analytics, call monitoring, agent effectiveness reporting, and advanced administration controls, so the service isn’t only just for small businesses.
GoTo Connect is all cloud-based, so you can take advantage of cloud-hosted PBX if you’re looking to upgrade or replace an existing on-premise PBX system. There’s a 14-day free trial period for the Standard plan as well. Pricing is comparable to the other best VoIP phone systems we’ve mentioned, and as with those, you’ll get a better price when you have more users on your plan and if you opt to pay annually.
8×8 X Series Image used with permission by copyright holder Cloud or Integrated Phone: Both Cloud-hosted or on-premise PBX: Cloud-hosted Cost: From $15/month per user Users: Up to 10 on Express tier, unlimited on higher tiers Third-party integrations: Yes (some only available with upgraded plans) Trial period: 30 days for Express plan Last but not least on our roundup of the best VoIP phone systems is 8×8. It offers three service tiers for small businesses — 8×8 Express, x2, and x4 — as well as three expanded “Contact Center” packages for larger enterprises, so it’s a flexible fit for companies of pretty much any size. All of the plans cover the basics and include unlimited calling in the U.S. and Canada, mobile and desktop apps, video calls, an auto-attendant, call routing, and voicemail.
The most popular plan is the 8×8 x2 package, which adds unlimited calling to 15 countries, SMS and team messaging, and video conferences for up to 500 participants. This plan also adds integration with popular workflow apps such as Slack and Microsoft Teams. Upgrading further to the 8×8 x4 plan gets you more advanced call handling features, expanded CRM integrations, call analytics, and unlimited calls to 48 countries. Your 8×8 plan can be entirely cloud-based (including a cloud-hosted PBX), or you can use it with IP phones such as the ones the company sells directly.
8×8 is very competitively priced and offers the lowest per-user price of all of our picks, with the cost starting at $15 per month for the entry-level 8×8 Express tier. You can also give this package a free tryout for 30 days if you want to see what 8×8 has to offer before committing to a subscription plan.
Editors' Recommendations Grasshopper: The virtual phone system for small businesses Computing Business Features Deals This content was produced in partnership with ZipRecruiter.
Hiring the right people is a crucial part of developing your business. The best person for the job will be one that shares your vision, is highly responsible, appropriately skilled, and is an efficient worker. You know what you want from your next employee but what do you do when it comes to finding that person? With many different sources out there for finding the best way to hire employees, we've picked out the best places to hire people online including ways to find employees online fast or for a long-term commitment. There are dozens of sites available but it's important to pick the best outlet for the task, so you can spend less time on your recruitment drive and more time interviewing the best candidates for the job. Take a look below at the best places to hire people online.
ZipRecruiter One of the most reliable names in the job posting world, ZipRecruiter is a great way of finding staff and quickly. It aims to make the hiring process as smooth as possible. It works by connecting to more than 100 job boards so the moment you create a job listing for your firm, ZipRecruiter posts it across the huge network so you're casting the net as wide as possible without having to manually create job listings at numerous sources.
Computing You need a bag to safely transport your laptop with you to work or school, but not all laptop bags are created equal. Some bags aren’t robust enough to carry heavier models or large enough to carry your charger and extra supplies. Some bags come at an affordable price, while other options are more of an investment.
Whether you’re in search of a sleek briefcase or a tricked-out gaming backpack, skip the guesswork and read on to find out the best ways to carry your laptop in 2023.
Business This content was produced in partnership with ZipRecruiter.
The best employment software, and comparable mobile applications, offer a valuable set of tools for hiring managers, HR, and even recruiters. They essentially streamline the candidate search and onboarding processes, making it easier to find potential hires but also to communicate, engage, and research them more in-depth. It stands to reason then that the best hiring apps for recruiters are the same hiring resources that nearly every professional can use, and while that may be true, there's one exception. Recruiting specific tools make it easier for recruiters to seek out and secure top-tier talent, and to continue that consistently. That means they include talent sourcing tools, interviewing, and communication tools, and sometimes scheduling and calendar tools to keep everything organized.
You might not think they're much different, but for recruiters, the best hiring apps also offer a reliable way to keep their finger on the pulse of the very broad talent pool. In light of that, here are the best hiring apps for recruiters: Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
