Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Way to Hire Employees Highest Paying Jobs Best Business Laptops What is RingCentral? Best VPN Best Job Search Sites Home Business Guides The best way to hire employees in 2022 By Jennifer Allen Close fancycrave1/Pixabay Have you been trying to find a good way to hire new employees for your business? We know the feeling. While there’s a big pool of people out there, it’s important to find the right person for your business. After all, they’re a walking advertisement for the quality of your business. One of the best job search sites is ZipRecruiter. It’s the best way to hire the perfect employees for your business, thanks to offering plenty of features that make it easier to find the right fit for you. We’re consistently impressed with how simple it makes the recruitment process, while also being very effective too. It makes life easier for you — the recruiter — as well as your future employees so they’re going to be impressed by how smoothly your company operates right from the moment they first consider applying.
1. Create a job post in ZipRecruiter 2. Add screening questions 3. Syndication to top job sites 4. Matched to ZipRecruiter’s roster of job-seekers 5. Invite matched candidates to apply; wait for applicants from job boards A simple process to follow, we’re going to tell you everything you need to know about how easy the ZipRecruiter method is. After all, who wants to rely on marketing speak to figure out why something is a good match? Read on while we break down all the absolute best features of ZipRecruiter. Once you’ve started with ZipRecruiter, you’re going to be super impressed at how much time it saves you and how quickly you find the right new staff member for your business. It’s a completely gimmick-free recruitment site that has some killer features that surprised us.
Try ZipRecruiter 1. Create a job post in ZipRecruiter The starting point when recruiting is always creating a great job post. It’s your first port of call for selling the role and your company to a great new candidate and it can be incredibly tough to get things just right. Fortunately, ZipRecruiter makes the process pretty straightforward. Sign-up is quick. You just enter your name, company name, and a few contact details, and you are good to go. You’re immediately led to the Create New Job post page and anyone can figure it out. It’s designed to ensure you can get your role posted quickly without being too overwhelmed.
The Best Hiring Apps for Recruiters 15 best online jobs for teens in 2022 The best CRM software for your business in 2022 From the start, you enter the job title, along with the location and street address. As you’d expect in these modern times, there’s also a check-box option for if it’s possible to complete the role remotely. That way, both local candidates and anyone looking for a remote working position can find your post when they search geographically. From there, you simply enter the type of position it is such as if it’s full- or part-time, before typing in the job description.
There’s a ton of flexibility with the job description. It’s a section where you can type out whatever you want, choosing to turn any key pieces of information into bold or italics so your future employee spots it more readily. Spend some time figuring out how you want to sell this role. It’s the absolute best way to make sure you get the right candidate for your company. This is your chance to sell the role and your company, reminding a candidate of exactly why they want to hit that apply button.
Underneath that, there’s a place to enter a quick one-line sales pitch on why someone would want to work at your company. It applies to all your job listings and you only have room for 140 characters. Think about what you would tweet to pitch a job to your buddy and stick with that. Think of the best positives like great and unique benefits or a fun in-office culture. Even a day off for their birthday or free cake can be a sweet selling point depending on your company. You like working there, right? Think about what the highlights are for you and go from there.
Once you’ve figured that out, you can tick all the boxes you need to indicate any benefits like health insurance, a 401K, or life insurance. Then it’s time to enter the compensation range along with any commission that may be involved. If this feels like a lot to enter at first, don’t worry. You can always hit the Save Draft button and come back to it later. It’s even possible to edit posts after they’ve gone live but remember that first impressions are important.
The sweet thing about ZipRecruiter is it really helps you with some advice. For instance, if you enter a job title and you haven’t filled in the full title, ZipRecruiter will help you finish it up with an extensive array of choices of common roles. Once you’ve entered the salary range, it also suggests if that comes in as higher or lower than the average in your area. If it comes in lower, this might be the time to increase your salaries so that you attract the best candidates. ZipRecruiter is confident that 80% of employers who post a job on the site get a quality candidate on the first day but you want to make that process work for you by selling your job correctly and with an appropriate salary. Think of it as like a nudge in the right direction as needed.
2. Add screening questions While you can choose to stick with a basic job advert to seek out great new employees, ZipRecruiter offers up a bit more than that if you feel like going the extra mile and saving everyone sometime in the future. That’s thanks to its extensive array of screening questions. While you can’t stop anyone from applying to your position, you can add screening questions so that you filter out unqualified candidates quickly. It’s a great timesaver for you and for any interested candidates, it gives them a chance to show off just why they’re worth your time. Basically, it’s a win-win scenario.
Screening questions can be added to the job application process so they come across as natural to your future potential employees. Best of all, you have a ton of power over how they are presented. For instance, you can make some questions “deal-breaker” questions. If the candidate answers in a way that doesn’t work for your intentions, they can be automatically hidden from your list of candidates. If you have a role that’s highly sought after, you’ve just saved yourself a bunch of time by setting up some questions to funnel only the best candidates to your desk. ZipRecruiter understands that you may have some specific needs that have to be met before you get any further. While some candidates may be excluded from the list, you can always look them up on your account too so you’re not entirely excluded from checking them out. Maximum flexibility, right? Adding interview questions is really simple. From your ZipRecruiter dashboard, you can look up your job ad and click Add screening questions.
ZipRecruiter gives you some ideas of what you may wish to add. These can be super specific things like checking that someone is authorized to work in the U.S. or that they possess certain certificates that are key to your business. They can also be something like checking that a candidate is able to commute regularly or that they can commit to overtime when needed.
Best of all, you can add your own questions. After all, no two businesses are alike. You probably have some unique requests or interests that mean it would be handy to know if a candidate can match those needs sooner rather than later. You can always check the dealbreaker box if it’s something that has to absolutely be the case too.
At its very simplest, adding screening questions means when it comes to the one-on-one interview stage, you won’t have to worry about basic questions when dealing with the candidate. You can get straight to finding if their personality and work ethic matches up with what you need. We’ve all been to interviews that have felt like a checklist of basics that could have been solved long before heading in and this method means that’s a thing of the past. Time is money and effort, so you want to make it worth everyone’s while.
3. Syndication to top job sites So, you’ve written up your job description, picked out some key questions that you need all candidates to answer, and maybe even come up with a dealbreaker or two to narrow things down. None of that is much use if no one sees your ad. Luckily, ZipRecruiter is awesome for syndicating your ad to a huge number of the top job sites in the country. With just one click, you can send your job out to over 100 well-known job sites.
While ZipRecruiter is a great first place for many candidates to look, they’re also likely to be looking at numerous other job sites. By being able to post all across the internet, you can reach a much wider audience with no more effort than simply following what we’ve suggested above. With just one click, your job will be posted on an extensive network including Google, US News, Jobrapido, Trivet, Patch, Neuvoo, and over 100 more places. These also include veteran job sites like Veteran’s Job Exchange, Jobpath, and Veterans Enterprise. Alongside all that, you can always choose to share your job posts on LinkedIn, Facebook , and Twitter, so you can use your company’s existing social media presence (or even your own account) to get the word out.
It’s all about saving you time as well as making it easier for your dream candidate to discover you’re hiring. No one wants to have to go back to the dark days of having to manually sign up to multiple job sites to list that their company is hiring so this is the ideal way of saving everyone time.
Being listed on the Google job search index is probably the best thing about this because — really — who doesn’t Google for everything these days? By being so open, you might even attract candidates that weren’t necessarily job hunting but were considering a move in the future. And that candidate might be the dream one to have for your business.
4. Matched to ZipRecruiter’s roster of job-seekers Once you’ve posted your job ad, ZipRecruiter’s role is done, right? Wrong! That’s when things turn clever. ZipRecruiter has a very cool AI that means its matching technology scans thousands of resumes to help them find you and you find them. It picks out the candidates with the right skills, education level, and experience so that everyone benefits. Helping you and candidates use time wisely, ZipRecruiter actively invites and encourages employees to apply to the jobs that best suit them and their needs. It’s a clever system that helps those potential future colleagues of yours know where their strengths lie too which may even help anyone who’s lacking a little self-confidence but would be an awesome fit.
There are so many jobs already out there that such AI technology is a huge advantage. It analyzes millions of complicated pieces of data to get you the best results and best candidates. Of course, by doing so, it then entices those candidates into applying so you don’t have to wait for them to find you.
As you gain more potential candidates, you can even use the resume database to pinpoint the best options with a smart search facility helping you work your way through the many options coming your way. It has extensive filters as well as allows you to browse according to freshness, aka, how recently the resume popped up as a relevant choice for you.
It’s a really smart way of doing things. If you’re looking to fill a role, it’s likely you want to do so quickly. Having said that, you don’t want to hire just anyone — you want the best. This system means that’s exactly what you’re going to get. It also empowers any future employees as they know when the role best suits them which means they’re going to be a lot more keen and likely to want the role you’re offering. It’s so much better than the old-fashioned methods that meant someone would have to search through potentially hundreds of inferior jobs in a bid to find the right one for them. All you need to do is make sure to guide them appropriately by filling in the job description, screening questions, and other details accurately.
Expect it to take a little time for ZipRecruiter to find the best candidates. Obviously, the more information you provide, the more accurate the results are. It’s always possible to use a TrafficBoost extra to get more noticed and potentially gain up to three times more candidates. If your profession is a high-demand field, this could be a good idea to ensure you get noticed above competitors and more quickly. It’s not essential though so don’t worry if you can’t budget for that added extra.
5. Invite matched candidates to apply; wait for applicants from job boards Using ZipRecruiter once you have posted a job listing isn’t an entirely passive system. While you might think you have to wait for candidates to apply to you, it is also possible to get more proactive with your approach. That’s thanks to ZipRecruiter’s Invite to Apply feature. If you’ve ever wanted to introduce yourself to someone and essentially say “hi, I think you’re the perfect candidate to come work with us,” you can do exactly that. The feature enables you to automatically send a pre-written personal message to your favorite candidates. ZipRecruiter picks out the best fits so you know exactly who to touch base with. Everyone loves to feel a bit more appreciated and noticed so it’s pretty likely that if you make the first move, the candidate will reply and seriously consider the job role. It’s so much friendlier than relying on looking through search results on a fairly soulless job site elsewhere.
ZipRecruiter has a super easy-to-use dashboard so you can sort, review, and rate all the candidates that the site reckons will be a good choice for you. From there, you can pinpoint things down to exactly what you need most. The site is even smart enough to learn from those ratings, offering up similar applicants to those ones you liked in the future.
It’s a really nice way of doing things. It saves everyone time while also feeling much more personal and familiar than dealing with dull job listings that don’t really give away a true feeling of what to expect. For prospective candidates as well as you, it all feels like having your own personal assistant or a recruitment consultant that genuinely listens to everyone’s needs. Thanks to it working so well, you’re far more likely to get superior candidates than using other services, as it’s much more tailored for everyone’s needs.
ZipRecruiter also offers the ability to create your own dedicated job board so if you would rather have your own job board with dedicated branding and wait for applicants to apply, that’s an option too. It’s a little more old-school than the typical ZipRecruiter way, but ideal if you don’t want to have to maintain job ads too often or get too hands-on at times.
Try ZipRecruiter Editors' Recommendations Semrush Free Trial: Try the advanced online marketing tool The best accounting software for your small business 15 highest paying jobs online in 2022 4 ways to find employees online fast in 2022 The best VoIP services for small businesses for 2022 Business Computing Voice over Internet Protocol, or VoIP, is a popular alternative to landlines, especially in the business world. VoIP providers deliver digital telephone services that rely on the internet for voice and video calls. The main advantages of VoIP are that you can make long-distance calls at a very affordable price and benefit from a faster connection compared to a traditional landline.
A VoIP service is worth considering if you run a small business or make a lot of international phone calls, but comparing different VoIP providers can be challenging if you’re not familiar with the technology. We’ve compared different VoIP services to help you find the best provider to fit your needs.
RingCentral Business If you're looking to take your productivity up a notch (or if you're just a really slow typist), the best speech-to-text software is a sure way to do it. The idea is pretty simple: You speak, and the software detects your words and converts them into text format. The applications are nearly endless, from dictating thoughts and jotting down notes to creating long-form documents without having to type a word yourself. Yet despite this, not many businesses and professionals are taking full advantage of what speech-to-text software can give them.
The good news is that the best speech-to-text software doesn't have to cost an arm and a leg -- or anything at all, depending on your needs. There's a handful of noteworthy services out there, though, and selecting the right one is important. That's where we come in. Below, we've rounded up the best speech-to-text software platforms out there, with our picks covering a wide spectrum of platforms, features, and price points.
Dragon Anywhere Computing Your cybersecurity is always important, but small businesses must interact with sensitive personal information like financial records. It’s important to keep this type of information safe, especially since small businesses are a favorite cybercriminal target. A secure firewall is the first step.
Different firewall applications have different functions, and if you’re interested in learning more about what’s best for your small business or startup, we have got you covered.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
