Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Way to Hire Employees Highest Paying Jobs Best Business Laptops What is RingCentral? Best VPN Best Job Search Sites Home Business Features Patreon and Ko-fi become full-time gigs as creators lose their jobs By Shubham Agarwal Close The coronavirus has upended lives across the world and put hundreds of thousands of people out of work. The creative industry has taken one of the heaviest blows, with artists having their commissions frozen, gigs canceled, or jobs furloughed.
Replacing your job with Patreon and Ko-fi YouTube revenue drops and Patreon picks up the slack Record-high numbers on crowdfunding platforms Adobe A few, however, have been able to find solace and recourse in crowdfunding. As the pandemic continues to paralyze their primary sources of income, creators have turned to platforms like Patreon, BuyMeACoffee, and Ko-fi in droves. Courtesy of their followers, many of those have been able to quickly build up a fairly steady flow of revenue.
Replacing your job with Patreon and Ko-fi Michigan-based graphic designer Annie was laid off from her full-time, work-from-home advertising gig. Fortunately, as a weekend hobby, she had been publishing her art online, developing an active fan following that allowed her to successfully launch a new Ko-fi campaign.
“When I lost my job I turned to my followers for help, opened up my Ko-fi account, and within the first day it was unbelievable the donations I received from followers and friends who wanted to support me during this difficult time,” she told Digital Trends.
Similarly, Andrew O’ Neil , a comedian and musician from London, U.K., lost all of his gigs indefinitely due to lockdown orders and launched a Patreon membership that offered his followers access to exclusive content for as little as 1 British pound.
“With no gigs on the horizon, I needed to do something to earn an income and keep myself sane. I’m lucky in that I have spent years building a fanbase, treating my career more like a musician than a comedian. So I already had a bunch of people who want to support me. So far it’s motivating me, and it’s keeping a roof above my head,” he added.
I have just lost a major gig, one that makes the difference between paying rent and not. Editors, I am AVAILABLE. Everyone, now would be a great time to subscribe to my Patreon—there are many tiers and I think it&#39;s worth the money. Thank you.
https://t.co/DYKo0MWZOl &mdash; Sean T. Collins (@theseantcollins) March 26, 2020 Sean T. Collins , a freelance entertainment writer and critic for publications like The Outline, was also hit drastically when all of his major clients cut back their freelance budget as part of larger cost-cutting measures. He said he “saw an influx of new patrons, while a significant number of existing patrons increased their subscription tiers” when he tweeted about the financial hardships he was experiencing. He claims his Patreon income amounts to “one or two freelance assignments per month.” YouTube revenue drops and Patreon picks up the slack With businesses spending less than ever, revenue for advertising-dependent platforms like YouTube has taken a toll too — which in turn has led to a steep fall in monetization rates for YouTubers. Some ended up flocking over to crowdfunding services hoping their fans would be willing to pay for content they were previously able to stream for free.
Chris Piers, who runs a comic book review channel called Comic Tropes , was furloughed and now exclusively relies on YouTube and Patreon to pay for his daily necessities and mortgage. But due to constantly evolving algorithms and dropping ad revenue, he has found himself focusing a lot more on promoting his Patreon.
“Patreon has been a helpful fallback during the pandemic. The last several months have had consistent growth on Patreon whereas YouTube can jump up and down a bit. I’ll put it this way: YouTube alone would possibly not pay my bills. Patreon is more reliable. But I have to find a way to make them symbiotic,” he said.
Why do YouTubers have Patreons? Because this is how much my Mega Medley has earned me this month through ad revenue (2.5M views, 90 minute video). This is what is known as &#39;revenue sharing&#39; for cover songs.
pic.twitter.com/K1oPaThWxy &mdash; lara6683 (@Larawithabird) April 6, 2020 Lara de Wit, who streams herself playing video game soundtracks, expressed similar concerns on Twitter when her 90-minute video with over 2.5 million views earned her only $0.22.
However, the pandemic slump has financially affected nearly every one and in a handful of cases, creators have had a difficult time convincing their patrons to stay.
Japan-based Elaine Tipping and her partner both lost teaching income and are expecting their first child. Tipping said that while Patreon, which she uses to support her art, is more reliable than her other jobs in this time, some of her patrons have been “unable to continue due to their own financial complications.” With nearly 300 patrons, she earns $1350 every month on Patreon.
Record-high numbers on crowdfunding platforms More than 50,000 creators have joined Patreon since mid-March and the company has registered a 30% spike in patrons as well. On Ko-fi, donations have doubled from the third week of March and over 30,000 new artists have signed up. What’s more, Ko-fi’s co-founder, Simon Ellington said the platform has seen a dramatic uptick in the number of creators who received a donation within the first week of launching. BuyMeACoffee now sustains on an average 700 daily creator sign-ups as opposed to 400 before.
“We think there’s definitely been more emphasis given to the role of platforms like Ko-fi at the moment. We’ve heard lots of creators stories about canceled events, lost freelance work and such like so creators are definitely needing platforms like Ko-fi more than ever to help make up for that. I also think it serves to help normalize this type of direct, genuine support, both financially and emotionally for creators,” added Ellington.
In addition, companies have even announced initiatives to further catalyze this shift: Patreon has introduced a fund for coronavirus-affected creators, Ko-fi is offering complimentary Gold subscription upgrades, and BuyMeACoffee has waived its own fees.
Creators have a long journey ahead of themselves. But as people around the world shelter at home indefinitely, it’s also an unprecedented opportunity for them to capitalize. While crowdfunding platforms have enabled them to develop alternate and, more importantly, independent sources of income, it can also be taxing for them and their mental health under the looming fear of losing patrons to others. Hopefully, countries and communities will be able to flatten the COVID-19 curve soon allowing creators and every one of us to return to our normal lives.
Editors' Recommendations Patreon is having another go at changing the way it charges creators Features Deals This content was produced in partnership with ZipRecruiter.
Hiring the right people is a crucial part of developing your business. The best person for the job will be one that shares your vision, is highly responsible, appropriately skilled, and is an efficient worker. You know what you want from your next employee but what do you do when it comes to finding that person? With many different sources out there for finding the best way to hire employees, we've picked out the best places to hire people online including ways to find employees online fast or for a long-term commitment. There are dozens of sites available but it's important to pick the best outlet for the task, so you can spend less time on your recruitment drive and more time interviewing the best candidates for the job. Take a look below at the best places to hire people online.
ZipRecruiter One of the most reliable names in the job posting world, ZipRecruiter is a great way of finding staff and quickly. It aims to make the hiring process as smooth as possible. It works by connecting to more than 100 job boards so the moment you create a job listing for your firm, ZipRecruiter posts it across the huge network so you're casting the net as wide as possible without having to manually create job listings at numerous sources.
Computing You need a bag to safely transport your laptop with you to work or school, but not all laptop bags are created equal. Some bags aren’t robust enough to carry heavier models or large enough to carry your charger and extra supplies. Some bags come at an affordable price, while other options are more of an investment.
Whether you’re in search of a sleek briefcase or a tricked-out gaming backpack, skip the guesswork and read on to find out the best ways to carry your laptop in 2023.
Business This content was produced in partnership with ZipRecruiter.
The best employment software, and comparable mobile applications, offer a valuable set of tools for hiring managers, HR, and even recruiters. They essentially streamline the candidate search and onboarding processes, making it easier to find potential hires but also to communicate, engage, and research them more in-depth. It stands to reason then that the best hiring apps for recruiters are the same hiring resources that nearly every professional can use, and while that may be true, there's one exception. Recruiting specific tools make it easier for recruiters to seek out and secure top-tier talent, and to continue that consistently. That means they include talent sourcing tools, interviewing, and communication tools, and sometimes scheduling and calendar tools to keep everything organized.
You might not think they're much different, but for recruiters, the best hiring apps also offer a reliable way to keep their finger on the pulse of the very broad talent pool. In light of that, here are the best hiring apps for recruiters: Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
