Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Way to Hire Employees Highest Paying Jobs Best Business Laptops What is RingCentral? Best VPN Best Job Search Sites Home Business Deals How to clean up your keywords and refresh your SEO strategy By Jennifer Allen Close Image used with permission by copyright holder Spring cleaning isn’t just about tidying up your living space — it’s also the ideal time of year to clean up your business’s keywords online and ensure that your SEO strategy is up to date and ready to attract more attention as we head into the second half of the year. The best way to do this is to use Semrush. The online marketing platform brings together over 50 tools to empower users to grow their online presence across key marketing channels. Tested by 7 million professionals across different fields, it’s the ultimate way to ensure your online marketing is pitch perfect. Whether you’re looking to grow your small-business needs or you’re a freelance marketer keen to boost your success rate, Semrush has it all, easily beating competition like Alexa Rank.
Start Free Trial The idea behind Semrush is that it’s your one-stop shop for improving marketing with tools for every form of marketing. 30% of Fortune 500 companies consider the marketing tool as their go-to place for improving their online reach. The platform has the largest keyboard database on the market thanks to its remarkable 20 billion keyword supply. It isn’t just about quantity, either, thanks to being the most accurate position-tracking tool on the market. Every Semrush user has access to the daily position tracking updates, no matter what subscription plan they are signed up to.
In addition, Semrush users also get a built-in content marketing platform that covers every step of the content creation flow. An extensive dashboard, it offers a quick site audit tool that suggests what you can do to improve performance, while uncovering millions of relevant national and local keywords, as well as analyzing your domain’s backlink profile. When writing content, it also helps you find topics that will appeal to your audience, before suggesting tips that can help you create SEO-friendly content that still reads naturally.
For market research purposes, you can also use it to analyze the traffic of any website, including your competitors’, so you can see what works for them and figure out how you can grow your market share in a similar way. Through doing so, you can spot any keyword or backlink gaps you may have missed.
Focusing on advertising? In a similar vein, you can always monitor your competitors’ ad copies and landing pages, before deducing the best keywords for each PPC campaign. Through doing so, you can correctly determine where you need to optimize your advertising spend, ensuring your business or client saves money where it matters. It even offers great tools for creating and tracking PPC campaigns as well as collating white-labeled or branded reports, too.
Social media experts don’t miss out with Semrush either, thanks to the ability to schedule content along with offering in-depth analysis of your posts. It’s a great way of seeing what posts attract the most attention and how to improve engagement, along with if specific times of day prove most popular for your readership.
Semrush has also added a Keywords Intent feature. The new tool helps brands understand the type of content their customers are looking for. Via the tool, you get perspective on why people are searching for specific keywords. For instance, you can see if there’s an informational intent such as looking for an answer to a question or whether a customer is looking to find the best product to buy, meaning a commercial intent or even a transactional intent as they know exactly what their plans are. It’s much more useful than simply understanding basic keywords but not how they relate to a user.
With more data and insight than any of its competitors, Semrush is the ultimate SEO platform for businesses or individuals looking to spruce up their SEO strategy in the most efficient way possible. Able to run in-depth website audits based on over 130 checks while accessing its extensive library of over 21 billion keywords, this is the marketing tool your business needs to truly shine and be noticed across the world.
Get started with Semrush today and spend some time cleaning up your keywords and refreshing your strategy in time for a great second half of the year. You can enjoy seven days of full access to all toolkits entirely for free with the option to cancel any time. From there, the Pro package that is best suited for marketing newbies and small in-house teams costs just $120 per month; the Guru plan that is ideal for growing agencies costs $230 per month; and the large agency option, Business, costs $450 per month after a two-week free trial.
Start Free Trial Editors' Recommendations Semrush Free Trial: Try the advanced online marketing tool Hiring managers need to see this: tips to hire top talent in your sector How to post a job on Google and hire the best candidates Find exceptional talent: the best hiring platforms for small businesses It’s time to get creative: Get up to 20% off Autodesk software with this deal Deals Business Deals This content was produced in partnership with Intuit.
Whether this is your first year filing taxes for your small business, or this has been a longstanding task, it's not something you have to do alone -- we'll get to where you can find help in a bit. The entire process can be complex, intimidating, and time-consuming, especially if you're handling all of the accounting and filing manually. What forms are you supposed to use? What documents and resources do you need to complete the filing? Are you eligible for any deductions? You see when filing personal taxes, there are a lot of different tools you can fall back on, like Intuit's well-known Turbotax suite. But things are a little different when you're filing as a business. There's a lot more to think about, such as profits and losses, sales taxes, property taxes, excise taxes, employment taxes, and even self-employment taxes. Where do you start? Don't worry if you're overwhelmed because Intuit has your back, and QuickBooks Online is precisely the tool, and support you need. For starters, you can begin reading about what's required of you, and Intuit has an excellent library of business tax guides and resources you can use. If you don't know where to start, or what you should even be doing, definitely give them a read. For now, we're going to discuss QuickBooks, and QuickBooks Payroll, to explore how they can help with business taxes both during the actual filing process and throughout the year leading up to the next tax season. Listen up GenZ and Millennial entrepreneurs, this one's for you because business tax management with QuickBooks is simple and stress-free.
Deals This content was produced in partnership with Intuit.
Whether you're starting a business, or you have a well-established venture up and running already, you'll need a bit of support to play in the big leagues. Large organizations have a lot more resources at their disposal, including an inordinate amount of funds to work with for marketing, tools, software, and much more. While you may never be up to their speed, you do have a lot of options, if you know where to look. Intuit's QuickBooks Online and QuickBooks Payroll, for example, are powerful tools that can help small businesses grow and thrive. These software solutions provide a wide range of benefits for business owners, from streamlining accounting and financial management to automating payroll and tax reporting. Below, we'll explore some of the ways that QuickBooks Online and QuickBooks Payroll can seriously help your small business grow.
Efficient Accounting and Financial Management One of the most significant benefits of using QuickBooks Online is that it makes accounting and financial management simple, efficient, and relatively automated. QuickBooks Online allows you to manage your finances from anywhere, whether you're at the office or on the go. You can track income and expenses, create and send invoices, and even manage your bank accounts and credit cards directly from the platform. This is huge if you're running a smaller, e-commerce business where you have invoices, expenses, and costs going out -- and coming in -- from a wide variety of sources. Dropshipping store, anyone? Computing It's tax season -- ugh. Very few people look forward to tax season, especially if they have small businesses or multiple income streams that make filing complicated and cumbersome. Thankfully there are a lot of software options that help do the work for you, and some of the best tax software out there is actually on sale during tax season. Intuit's QuickBooks Online is one of them.
As with any kind of business venture, QuickBooks Online is definitely where you want to be. It's comprehensive, with support for payroll, income and expenses, taxes, and much more. Perhaps you already know that and have just found it's too expensive for your tastes? There's a silver lining here. For a limited time, when you buy any QuickBooks Online plan, you'll get 50% off for 3 months. That drops the price of each of the tiers considerably, but also you'll get access to the free guided setup that will walk you through everything you need to do. It's just in time for tax season, and to get you get all prepped to file with minimal infractions.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
