Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Way to Hire Employees Highest Paying Jobs Best Business Laptops What is RingCentral? Best VPN Best Job Search Sites Home Business Features What can tech companies do to create more women-friendly workplaces? By Jenny McGrath Close If you’re thinking about a woman-friendly workplace and automatically picturing something like Bumble’s headquarters — with couches, a glam room, and floral wallpaper — think again. As nice as those perks are, what women really want goes deeper than a pretty office and beauty treatments on site.
Full flexibility Banning biases Networked Full flexibility “ While all employees are impacted in some way by lack of flexibility at work, it’s women who are often hit the hardest,” Annie Dean, co-founder and co-CEO of Werk , which uses data-driven solutions to help companies create more flexibility for employees. “Workplace flexibility is a top-three search criteria for millennial job seekers, and the number one criteria for women.” A 2018 Mercer report found 51 percent of those polled wanted more flexibility.
 Adaptable schedules mean everyone in the office can take advantage, so the expectations around childcare aren’t implicitly placed upon women.
Image used with permission by copyright holder In an office that makes flexibility a priority, no one would give you the side-eye for leaving in the middle of the day to pick up your child or go to the gym — as long as the work gets done.
 “When it comes to things like discounted gym memberships, for example, remember that if an employee doesn’t have the time to actually go to the gym, no monetary incentive is going to enable them to prioritize working out,” said Dean. “So our advice would be to think less about free beer on tap and more about creating a flexible culture where employees are encouraged to bring their whole selves to work — and to remove their whole selves from work when they need to, no questions asked.” Annie Dean, co-CEO of Werk Lydia Hudgens Such a setup works better for some offices than others. Those who work in retail have to show up when the customers are there, after all. There are other ways all workplaces can combat second-generation gender bias.
 While women work in engineering, construction, and other male-dominated industries, there are subtle, often unconscious ways in which stereotypes favor men over women for more senior roles.
“There’s a perception that women are less confident, especially for leadership positions,” said Diana Bilimoria, Chair of the Department of Organizational Behavior at the Weatherhead School of Management, Case Western Reserve University. Her research focuses on ways companies can facilitate the career development of women and minorities, and she also teaches courses at the school’s Leadership Lab for Women in STEM.
At Collision 2019, technology finds its purpose: Doing good Higher-ups may assume women aren’t willing to travel because they have kids, so they simply don’t offer the opportunity.
Women miss out on the stretch assignments that allow them to gain new skills and put them in line for new positions, said Bilimoria. Higher-ups may assume women aren’t willing to travel because they have kids, so they simply don’t offer the opportunity. Managers are also sometimes hesitant to offer necessary feedback that would help women excel in new tasks. “Again this is not anyone deliberately saying, ‘I’m not going to give you the feedback,’” said Bilimoria. “It is more an unconscious sort of paternalism.” Banning biases Some of the biases are so subtle and so unconscious, women might not even realize them.
Eula Scott Bynoe and Jeannie Yandel, hosts of the podcast, Battle Tactics for Your Sexist Workplace.
KUOW Photo/Megan Farmer “Sometimes jobs can make it feel like you have to ask permission to use the bathroom,” said Scott Bynoe. “When you’re on your period that can be so much work.” Dress codes also favor men, said Yandel: “The accepted parameters for what it takes for a man to look professional in a range of environments is different and it’s easier to meet than it is for a woman,” she said. “And it’s cheaper.” (And sometimes there just aren’t enough spacesuits in your size.) Plus, women often have to bring more clothes to work to combat office temperatures that were designed for men.
 “Women have sweaters and shawls and all that other shit at their desks,” said Yandel. “There’s a reason for that, and it’s sexism.” “Sometimes jobs can make it feel like you have to ask permission to use the bathroom.” Recently, Glassdoor released its report on the gender pay gap.
 The results? It’s getting better, but it could still take decades for women to receive equal pay for equal work. In some cases, though, women are doing more. They’re often expected to pick up the slack when collaborating and to perform “ office housework ,” like doing the dishes in the workplace break room. While the statistic often used to talk about the gender wage gap is 83 percent, it’s actually the average. White women actually earn more than African-American and Hispanic men and women, according to Pew Research.
 Companies often encourage salary secrecy, but Glassdoor has a tool that can help you determine how much others with your experience and in your city are making. “One of the ways we recommend employers create and foster culture that really appeals to both men and women is to make sure that everybody at the company is getting paid equally for equal work,” said Sarah Stoddard, Glassdoor’s career trends analyst. The site also has tools to help employers examine and close gender pay gaps that exist in their company.
Networked Another way to improve company culture for women is to, well, have more women. “It’s not a formula where you put one women on a board or you put one woman in the senior executive team and then everything changes,” said Bilimoria. If it’s just a token position and she isn’t empowered to make real changes, then the women below her won’t get any real benefit. “I think having just one or a very small minority puts a lot of pressure on them,” she added. “It’s about critical mass.” Setting up opportunities for women to network not only benefits them, it offers employers an opportunity to stock its pipeline with more diverse candidates.
This is especially true for tech companies. Bilimoria suggests they send women in computer programming and similar roles to schools and colleges. “They can serve as role models and really help to share the work they’re doing as being exciting and innovative and contributive to society,” she said. It can help combat the stereotype of tech companies as work-obsessed and socially awkward.
???????????? America, where the phrase “created equal” has only ever applied to those in the board room, lol.
https://t.co/mdMiof0dHi &mdash; Eula Scott Bynoe (@EulaScottBynoe) April 2, 2019 Smaller companies that don’t have the resources for such networks can signal in their hiring process that they are looking for diverse candidates. Even the language in job descriptions can inadvertently discourage women from applying. You might feel like less of a “rock star” and more like you have a singer-songwriter vibe. Meeting with a room full of men during an interview also sends a message. “One way to help find diverse candidates, especially women, is to include more women in your hiring process and the decision-making process when it comes to finding top candidates,” said Stoddard.
Meeting with a room full of men during an interview sends a message.
In addition to a flexible schedule, equal pay, access to training and feedback, and a clear path to leadership, there are some other perks Scott Bynoe and Yandel would have in their dream, non-sexist workplace. One is an emphasis on results over process. “It’s really backwards to expect everyone else to fit into what I’m asking of them because so often the end result is more chaos and trauma and anxiety,” said Scott Bynoe. “I would be really clear about that there is a space where you do not have to expect to be on call,” so no texts or emails after work hours, said Yandel. She’d also want zero stigma and better access to mental health services. “I feel like one of the things that happens in a lot of workplaces is you feel like you have to lie about what’s happening in your personal life,” she said.
Unfortunately, Scott Bynoe and Yandel aren’t actually buying up real estate for their fantasy workplace. Instead, the responsibility to improve the culture of workplaces should fall on managers and business owners, while legislators introduce bills that will fix more systemic problems like the pay gap.
Editors' Recommendations Beyond rainbows: 5 tech companies that did more for Pride in 2022 4 women innovators who are using tech to help others live better lives Features Deals This content was produced in partnership with ZipRecruiter.
Hiring the right people is a crucial part of developing your business. The best person for the job will be one that shares your vision, is highly responsible, appropriately skilled, and is an efficient worker. You know what you want from your next employee but what do you do when it comes to finding that person? With many different sources out there for finding the best way to hire employees, we've picked out the best places to hire people online including ways to find employees online fast or for a long-term commitment. There are dozens of sites available but it's important to pick the best outlet for the task, so you can spend less time on your recruitment drive and more time interviewing the best candidates for the job. Take a look below at the best places to hire people online.
ZipRecruiter One of the most reliable names in the job posting world, ZipRecruiter is a great way of finding staff and quickly. It aims to make the hiring process as smooth as possible. It works by connecting to more than 100 job boards so the moment you create a job listing for your firm, ZipRecruiter posts it across the huge network so you're casting the net as wide as possible without having to manually create job listings at numerous sources.
Computing You need a bag to safely transport your laptop with you to work or school, but not all laptop bags are created equal. Some bags aren’t robust enough to carry heavier models or large enough to carry your charger and extra supplies. Some bags come at an affordable price, while other options are more of an investment.
Whether you’re in search of a sleek briefcase or a tricked-out gaming backpack, skip the guesswork and read on to find out the best ways to carry your laptop in 2023.
Business This content was produced in partnership with ZipRecruiter.
The best employment software, and comparable mobile applications, offer a valuable set of tools for hiring managers, HR, and even recruiters. They essentially streamline the candidate search and onboarding processes, making it easier to find potential hires but also to communicate, engage, and research them more in-depth. It stands to reason then that the best hiring apps for recruiters are the same hiring resources that nearly every professional can use, and while that may be true, there's one exception. Recruiting specific tools make it easier for recruiters to seek out and secure top-tier talent, and to continue that consistently. That means they include talent sourcing tools, interviewing, and communication tools, and sometimes scheduling and calendar tools to keep everything organized.
You might not think they're much different, but for recruiters, the best hiring apps also offer a reliable way to keep their finger on the pulse of the very broad talent pool. In light of that, here are the best hiring apps for recruiters: Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
