Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Way to Hire Employees Highest Paying Jobs Best Business Laptops What is RingCentral? Best VPN Best Job Search Sites Home Business News Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? 4 ways to find employees online fast in 2022 By Jennifer Allen Close Knowing the best way to hire employees is an important part of finding great employees online fast. However, when it comes to doing so quickly, there can be differences involved in finding the most appropriate approach. That’s why we’ve got all the best insight into the four key ways to find employees online fast.
1. Post on a job board website 2. Post on Social Media 3. Create an Employee Referral Program 4. Poach from Competitors When time is of the essence, it’s important to know exactly what to do so that you’re not stuck waiting too long to employ the right candidate for your business. Time is money and if you’re short on staff, you need to be able to fill those vacancies quickly. Having said that, you still want the best candidates which is why it’s important to go about it the right way. Some ways are more obvious than others but this is the time for efficiency so you get the best value proposition.
Read on while we take you through the four best ways to find employees online fast, while not missing out on quality candidates either. In no time at all, you’ll know exactly what to do to make sure your business is well staffed and efficiently run with plenty of great options for new employees. It should also lead to a better quality of new employee too, as we appreciate that you want the best staff for the job, even when moving fast.
15 best online jobs for teens in 2022 15 highest paying jobs online in 2022 The best VoIP services for small businesses for 2022 1. Post on a job board website Image used with permission by copyright holder It’s an obvious one but it’s vital that you post the position you’re looking to fill on a job board website. These days, almost all potential candidates will check out the best job search sites before considering any other options. These sites offer multiple benefits that make it really worthwhile for them to be your first port of call. They allow candidates to check out available jobs from anywhere, both in terms of geographical location and by allowing them to check from their smartphones while commuting, their laptops at home, or their tablets in bed. It’s vital you also post the job on the best job board website possible. We’re big fans of ZipRecruiter.
 The company lives up to its name by aiming to make the hiring process as quick and efficient as possible. That goes for both you and your future employees, so it’s a great first impression of your company for them.
Rather than being a standalone job search site, ZipRecruiter connects you to more than 100 job boards. These include Google, US News, Jobrapido, Trivet, Patch, Neuvoo, and over 100 more places. The list also includes veteran job sites like Veteran’s Job Exchange, Jobpath, and Veterans Enterprise, so it really covers a breadth of options. That means that you can create a job listing on ZipRecruiter before the service instantly posts it across its hefty network of job listing websites. It saves you the need to use multiple different job boards yourself. Essentially, you’re casting the net wide without having to go to the effort of doing so yourself. It’s a huge time saver while ensuring you get the absolute best candidate for the role.
Just that one advantage to ZipRecruiter sounds like the main selling point but it also does so much more than that. For you, signing up is a breeze. You just enter your name, company name, and a few basic details, and you are good to go. From there, there’s a clear template for entering a job listing. You enter the job title, along with the location, and whether it’s possible to perform the role remotely. The latter is increasingly important these days in a world where remote working is more viable and efficient. It’s an ideal system whether you’re looking for someone local or you don’t mind them being based elsewhere in the country. It’s possible to be very flexible with your job description, with options to add as much key information as you want. Of course, with this information traveling across so many different job boards at once, it’s a smart move to spend some time getting things right. After all, it’s the best way of ensuring you get the candidates you need at your firm and quickly.
A really neat feature about ZipRecruiter is that once you’ve filled in the job description, you can add a 140-character sales pitch. It’s a one-line kind of entry that is there to help you sell the job fast. Think of it as if you were selling the job to a friend. This is the opportunity to point out if there’s a particularly nice work atmosphere or if you get a day off for your birthday. From there, you simply tick some boxes to explain any benefits thrown in and you can post the job listing. ZipRecruiter smartly suggests if your salary range is a little low compared to local competitors too, giving you a chance to change that if you’re in a position too.
The efficiency of ZipRecruiter doesn’t stop there either. It’s possible to add a series of screening questions to your job listing. That way, you can skip all those tedious questions you find yourself asking at the interview stage, saving you the need to even call some people to an interview. You can choose whether these questions are deal-breakers or not ensuring that ZipRecruiter filters out anyone that doesn’t match your essential requirements. It saves everyone time as it means you don’t have to keep asking the same questions when interviewing someone and the candidate knows exactly what to expect. It also makes you look far more professional in the eyes of potential candidates. Adding interview questions takes seconds to do and can be as simple as checking if someone is authorized to work in the U.S. or verifying if the candidate can commit to overtime when needed. It’s all down to your needs with the option to create your own questions if your business has some very specific requirements.
Worried that these filters are too restrictive? Don’t be. You can always check back on the list of applicants and look past the filters. It’s likely you won’t need to though as ZipRecruiter is very efficient at finding the best candidates for you, so you can pick from the very best. ZipRecruiter will also pair you up with the best candidates, using clever AI to ensure that you are matched with the right resume and person for your business. From there, it encourages people to apply to only the best jobs and by best, that means your company of course. It saves everyone time, ensuring you’re noticed by the right person for the job. You can even choose to invite matched candidates to apply if they don’t apply first, speeding up the process even more. It’s a really streamlined approach that means you and your prospective employee feel in control of the process while keeping things moving along quickly.
2. Post on Social Media Image used with permission by copyright holder Social media is the best way to get your company’s name out there. That doesn’t just matter when it comes to getting people to consider your business as a potential client, but also when it comes to recruitment. Obviously, it’s important to know all the ins and outs of your recruitment plans but one of the very best ways to get the message out is to do so via social media. This can be done in a variety of different ways. At its simplest, you can make a job post on ZipRecruiter before sharing it elsewhere. ZipRecruiter offers plenty of sharing options, allowing you to post the role on LinkedIn, Facebook , and Twitter. That way, you can use your existing social media presence — whether that’s your firm’s or even your own — to get the word out and potentially attract new candidates easily. The advantage here is that the reach of services like Twitter and Facebook is vast. Once other users begin sharing your posts around, you can attract people that might not have previously considered your company or been followers of it before. Even better, you can appeal to potential employees who were not originally considering a change of role any time soon. After all, job sites specifically target people who are actively looking for work. By reaching out via social media, you may find yourself attracting people who hadn’t contemplated a new role until they saw yours advertised.
It’s important to plan your social media campaign effectively. Do you want to post a link to an existing job role such as on ZipRecruiter or would you prefer to encourage others to email or get in touch directly? Either can work, and both options are effective depending on the position you’re looking to fill. For instance, a temporary role may benefit from you posting an entry on Twitter or Facebook rather than filling out a full entry on ZipRecruiter, however, we’d generally recommend the latter. Having a full job post means that you can communicate more of what’s expected of a candidate, ensuring the right people apply for the job and you only have the very best that suit your needs to evaluate.
When recruiting, especially quickly, you want to get the right candidate as soon as possible. By posting an entry on ZipRecruiter or a similar job board, you convey a certain sense of professionalism that can put you in good stead for recruiting a similarly professional person. By laying out everything you need and can offer, from what the role entails right down to what benefits they can enjoy, everyone knows exactly where they stand. The sweet spot is to set up screening questions via ZipRecruiter before posting on Twitter and Facebook so that they can answer all your questions. It means you get the best of both worlds without missing out on a place where your dream candidate could be looking. Remember — not everyone knows they’re looking for a new job until they come across the ideal role while browsing the internet.
Depending on the role, you may also wish to consider branching out to other forms of social media. Apps such as Instagram and TikTok can be useful for recruitment in certain situations. In particular, if you’re looking to attract a younger audience, they are more likely to use such services compared to Facebook. Ultimately, expanding your social media presence as wide as possible is beneficial both in terms of marketing and in terms of recruitment. It’s good to have as many options as possible, although when it comes to narrowing down candidates, that’s where using a service like ZipRecruiter proves useful.
3. Create an Employee Referral Program Image used with permission by copyright holder You’ve already got some great employees within your company so one of the best recruitment tactics is to ask them to recommend people that they think would be a good for the business. They’re likely to know who is the ideal fit, as well as who has the skills to help improve their (and your) work practices. By listening to their recommendations, you save time on having to seek out new and unknown staff, as well as being more confident you’ve hired correctly the first time. Your employee will also feel more valued which will boost loyalty to the firm. The best way to encourage your employees to refer candidates is to create an employee referral program. It allows employers to skip past the traditional recruitment route such as needing to write a job ad and waiting for candidates to get in touch, and move straight ahead to interviewing and recruiting. Such referral programs rely on you rewarding the employee for recommending the right candidate. This could be done via offering a financial bonus or additional vacation days.
Generally, referral programs are seen as offering multiple benefits. They reduce the time to hire as there’s no need to wait for job ads to display and be noticed on job boards. Also, it saves money as you don’t have to worry about paying fees for a job to be listed somewhere. Additionally, the quality of the hire tends to be far superior to hiring a potentially unknown quantity. That’s because your employee is likely to know the referred candidate far better than any resume or interview can ever lay out. With a superior hire, you’re likely to save money on training and avoid the need to rehire staff in the future too. As always, happy staff sticks around for longer. Using such a program also instantly builds a form of loyalty as the new candidate already knows someone within the firm and knows what to expect. That tends to mean that the candidate is more likely to stay in the job for longer than through traditional recruitment methods. Because the candidate has been referred by someone, they often already have various established skills so you can save time and money on training and onboarding. That proves particularly useful when looking to hire someone quickly and have them up to scratch within your company.
When setting up an employee referral scheme, it’s important to plan it out. Consider what your goals are. What positions are you looking to fill and what traits are most important? These are the kind of questions you need to ask when placing a job ad but the process is typically faster through referral schemes so it’s important to plan ahead. It’s a good idea to figure out the process involved too. It can be as simple as asking someone to call someone in for an informal interview or it can be a much more organized process with a resume that includes a section for having been referred by someone. Consider the bonus or bonuses you will offer the employee or even the new candidate and plan out when these will be provided. It’s a good idea to set some kind of length of service before offering the bonus rather than it being immediate, so as to reduce turnover.
Make sure to keep your employee updated on how the process is going so that they feel part of the recruitment process. It helps build up loyalty within the firm as well as encourages them to recommend other potential candidates in the future. Be sure to acknowledge good referrers so that they know their efforts are appreciated. Doing so will also encourage others to become part of the program. Make sure the program is as user-friendly as possible for everyone involved. With better staff, your company will work more efficiently, enjoy a better reputation, and everyone will be happier overall. As you track your referral program, you’re likely to see considerable savings while also enjoying better staff retention than before.
4. Poach from Competitors Image used with permission by copyright holder Poaching an employee from a competitor is an ethical gray area, but rarely illegal unless their contract prohibits it. While it won’t make you friends with your competitors and can cause issues within certain fields, it is also a highly effective way of recruiting a great new member of staff and quickly. When you poach from a competitor, you gain the benefit of knowing that the employee knows exactly what to do within your field. It’s likely that you won’t need to spend excessive amounts of time training them, with only basic onboarding likely to be needed. However, it can be deemed rude by your competitors and you will often have to pay a considerable sum to entice the very best to your ‘side’. If you want to make friends within your industry, it may be a bad idea to poach other employees, especially if your industry is relatively small in nature.
Poaching from a competitor doesn’t have to be vicious or obvious. It’s possible to hire a search firm to find candidates for you meaning you’re somewhat detached from actually poaching the person you have in mind. A good search firm is subtle and uses vague terms to gauge interest rather than being too obvious and unwelcoming. It’s important before diving into poaching a candidate that you plan ahead. Make sure that you’re hiring genuinely good candidates. Particularly for smaller firms, it can be easy to hire based on a resume rather than look at whether someone’s personality and nature fit into the role. That’s why it’s important to conduct reference checks, even when hiring someone that looks fantastic on paper. Such checks can confirm whether the employee has the same mindset and attitude that the rest of your staff have, ensuring you don’t hire someone that can cause issues amongst the rest of your team.
When hiring, you want to be confident that you can offer an unbeatable deal to the new candidate. Plan accordingly and arrange a contract and deal that is better than where they are currently working. If you can’t offer a financial incentive, ensure that the company’s culture matches their requirement so that they are happy with where they are working. That won’t always work if they are already happy at their original company but if there’s some resentment there, this could be the ideal time to lure them into jumping ship. In some cases, simply having a better atmosphere or knowing other people at your company can help. That’s also where an employee referral program can help substantially.
With any potential poaching of candidates, it’s vital that you don’t get into any legal trouble. Check that the member of staff you wish to hire doesn’t have a non-compete agreement within their contract. If they do, you may face a lawsuit if you hire them until after that limitation expires. In some cases, that can be many years but it could be worth waiting that long for one of the best. Consult an employment lawyer beforehand to ensure it’s fine and not a breach of contract. Also, ensure that no company secrets are shared illicitly due to a switch of employer. Remember that these things can go against you as well. While you consider poaching a competitor’s prime candidate, they can do the same to you. Make sure that your staff is happy, suitably well-paid, and content in their roles so that they aren’t tempted to switch elsewhere.
Editors' Recommendations The best accounting software for your small business The best way to hire employees in 2022 The best CRM software for your business in 2022 The best VoIP services for 2022 RingCentral and Microsoft Teams are a match made in heaven Business Tech News Deals This content was produced in partnership with ZipRecruiter.
Hiring the right people is a crucial part of developing your business. The best person for the job will be one that shares your vision, is highly responsible, appropriately skilled, and is an efficient worker. You know what you want from your next employee but what do you do when it comes to finding that person? With many different sources out there for finding the best way to hire employees, we've picked out the best places to hire people online including ways to find employees online fast or for a long-term commitment. There are dozens of sites available but it's important to pick the best outlet for the task, so you can spend less time on your recruitment drive and more time interviewing the best candidates for the job. Take a look below at the best places to hire people online.
ZipRecruiter One of the most reliable names in the job posting world, ZipRecruiter is a great way of finding staff and quickly. It aims to make the hiring process as smooth as possible. It works by connecting to more than 100 job boards so the moment you create a job listing for your firm, ZipRecruiter posts it across the huge network so you're casting the net as wide as possible without having to manually create job listings at numerous sources.
Computing You need a bag to safely transport your laptop with you to work or school, but not all laptop bags are created equal. Some bags aren’t robust enough to carry heavier models or large enough to carry your charger and extra supplies. Some bags come at an affordable price, while other options are more of an investment.
Whether you’re in search of a sleek briefcase or a tricked-out gaming backpack, skip the guesswork and read on to find out the best ways to carry your laptop in 2023.
Business This content was produced in partnership with ZipRecruiter.
The best employment software, and comparable mobile applications, offer a valuable set of tools for hiring managers, HR, and even recruiters. They essentially streamline the candidate search and onboarding processes, making it easier to find potential hires but also to communicate, engage, and research them more in-depth. It stands to reason then that the best hiring apps for recruiters are the same hiring resources that nearly every professional can use, and while that may be true, there's one exception. Recruiting specific tools make it easier for recruiters to seek out and secure top-tier talent, and to continue that consistently. That means they include talent sourcing tools, interviewing, and communication tools, and sometimes scheduling and calendar tools to keep everything organized.
You might not think they're much different, but for recruiters, the best hiring apps also offer a reliable way to keep their finger on the pulse of the very broad talent pool. In light of that, here are the best hiring apps for recruiters: Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
