Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Way to Hire Employees Highest Paying Jobs Best Business Laptops What is RingCentral? Best VPN Best Job Search Sites Home Business Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? No W-2s? 2023 is the year of QuickBooks Online By John Alexander Close This content was produced in partnership with Intuit.
Getting started on the right foot Untangling the mess For the average employed person, tax season is a relative breeze. Pop in some W-2 information and watch the refunds accumulate. At least that’s what it seems like from the outside, for the increasing number of us who make money via freelancing, side hustles, and small businesses. For us, tax season can be a real headache and the endless forms for dozens of income streams can feel like a minefield.
What’s worse is that guidance has never been so terrible. Established businesses have tax-prep procedures built up over the years and the resources to hire teams to get the nasty bits done, while millennials – and our younger, Gen Z friends – feel left in the dust. Doing a little Google Sheets data entry and praying that PayPal won’t make any mistakes with their new reporting requirement is rough enough. Trying to put this information into unfeeling, computerized boxes that don’t always match 1-to-1 with what you are wanting is enough to warrant full-on panic.
Luckily, QuickBooks Online is jumping into the fray to give us a leg up and demystify taxes, business and personal. QuickBooks, which you’ve probably heard of — they’ve been around since 1983 — has long been a favorite of tax professionals and small business owners. But if you haven’t been following them since 1983, getting started sounds intimidating. That’s why, this year, QuickBooks Online is offering “Free Guided Setup” so you can get your business dealing recorded to the same level of solid, established bookkeeping as your older competitors. They’re bringing the human element back to tax preparation so a whole new generation can finally get on the footing they deserve.
Getting started on the right foot Image used with permission by copyright holder If you’re just starting your business, or want to in 2023, this part is for you.
QuickBooks Online has all of the tools you need to track your business dealings. It can track your sales flow, help you deal with contractor payments, and so much more. This year added a new feature where your sales channels can connect directly to the QuickBooks software. In other words, a lot of reduced work and worry for you. The software — and our tax structure — has grown so much in QuickBooks’ 40 years of business that there are a lot of features added and a ton of potential time to be saved by you.
But won’t getting it all connected and working be difficult? If I make a mistake, won’t I get audited? They’re not totally unreasonable fears. In our collective minds, we can imagine the sepia-toned days of yore, with the clueless young businessperson sitting down with a tax professional that helped them get everything together. Today, it can feel like YouTube tutorials and error messages are all the help we’ll ever receive. QuickBooks Online is taking us out of YouTube and back into the comfort of the hands-on experience with their new Free Guided Setup program, connecting new users with a QuickBooks expert. Here’s just a taste of the services your QuickBooks expert will provide: Help you connect QuickBooks with your Bank and cards, so income and expenses can be extracted easily.
Guidance on how to utilize all of the automated tools that are relevant to you.
Teach you the QuickBooks best practices and tricks to get you up to speed with your older peers.
The nice part about this new program is that it not only comes free, but you can also save up to 50% off on your QuickBooks Online subscription when you try it. Go ahead and see if it’s right for you: Untangling the mess Image used with permission by copyright holder Maybe you’ve been hacking it together for years, but tax time keeps presenting unusual struggles for you each year.
Join the club.
Luckily, QuickBooks Online is still for you! In addition to the Free Guided Setup described above (let’s face it, you’ll know a lot more about what you want automated away after a few years of doing it yourself) you’ll probably also love taking advantage of QuickBooks Online’s Live Bookkeeping.
 While this feature is great for everyone, it can be especially great for those of us that know our record-keeping hasn’t been so diligent for the past few months. Why? Your QuickBooks-certified bookkeeper will help you bring your past books up to date and then get you on track for a less confusing year. If wading through your payments records feels like walking through a vine-filled jungle, let QuickBooks be your machete.
You’ll also get help correctly categorizing all of those transactions that you’ve just been guessing at and hoping for the best all of these years. With access to reports at your fingertips, you’ll always know how your business is doing and what tweaks need to be made. So, consider scheduling a free consultation with a QuickBooks-certified bookkeeper today to save you some stress in the future.
Editors' Recommendations Take the Stress Out of Managing Your Business Taxes with QuickBooks Online Get tax-ready with QuickBooks: Save 50% on your first 3 months Start your business on the right foot with QuickBooks Online Deals Business Deals This content was produced in partnership with ZipRecruiter.
Hiring the right people is a crucial part of developing your business. The best person for the job will be one that shares your vision, is highly responsible, appropriately skilled, and is an efficient worker. You know what you want from your next employee but what do you do when it comes to finding that person? With many different sources out there for finding the best way to hire employees, we've picked out the best places to hire people online including ways to find employees online fast or for a long-term commitment. There are dozens of sites available but it's important to pick the best outlet for the task, so you can spend less time on your recruitment drive and more time interviewing the best candidates for the job. Take a look below at the best places to hire people online.
ZipRecruiter One of the most reliable names in the job posting world, ZipRecruiter is a great way of finding staff and quickly. It aims to make the hiring process as smooth as possible. It works by connecting to more than 100 job boards so the moment you create a job listing for your firm, ZipRecruiter posts it across the huge network so you're casting the net as wide as possible without having to manually create job listings at numerous sources.
Computing You need a bag to safely transport your laptop with you to work or school, but not all laptop bags are created equal. Some bags aren’t robust enough to carry heavier models or large enough to carry your charger and extra supplies. Some bags come at an affordable price, while other options are more of an investment.
Whether you’re in search of a sleek briefcase or a tricked-out gaming backpack, skip the guesswork and read on to find out the best ways to carry your laptop in 2023.
Business This content was produced in partnership with ZipRecruiter.
The best employment software, and comparable mobile applications, offer a valuable set of tools for hiring managers, HR, and even recruiters. They essentially streamline the candidate search and onboarding processes, making it easier to find potential hires but also to communicate, engage, and research them more in-depth. It stands to reason then that the best hiring apps for recruiters are the same hiring resources that nearly every professional can use, and while that may be true, there's one exception. Recruiting specific tools make it easier for recruiters to seek out and secure top-tier talent, and to continue that consistently. That means they include talent sourcing tools, interviewing, and communication tools, and sometimes scheduling and calendar tools to keep everything organized.
You might not think they're much different, but for recruiters, the best hiring apps also offer a reliable way to keep their finger on the pulse of the very broad talent pool. In light of that, here are the best hiring apps for recruiters: Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
