Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Way to Hire Employees Highest Paying Jobs Best Business Laptops What is RingCentral? Best VPN Best Job Search Sites Home Business News Businesswoman? Learn about DWEN, Dell Women’s Entrepreneur Network By Jennifer Allen Close Image used with permission by copyright holder Even in these modern times, women and specifically women entrepreneurs continue to face unique challenges when working to create fantastic businesses for us all to enjoy. That’s why Dell has set up the Dell Women’s Entrepreneur Network. It’s a network designed to connect women entrepreneurs around the world, inspire them with their stories, and transform their business to continue powering forward.
With members from over 118 countries, DWEN facilitates a vibrant and diverse community of peers, fosters meaningful connections, and bridge access to new markets and business opportunities. Women entrepreneurs have free access to DWEN.
At a time when women-owned businesses are growing the fastest in the small business market (at 21% compared to 9% of businesses overall), there are fantastic opportunities for women out there who want to spread their wings and pursue their own path in business. There’s a lot to celebrate here, including the fact that women of color are going into small business even faster with twice the number embarking on a fantastic journey of business discovery.
However, it’s not all good news, with venture capital investment in all-female founding teams representing only 2.8% of capital invested across the entire U.S. startup ecosystem.
 Women are generally receiving $5,000 less in loan size compared to men and that’s far from right.
Fortunately, that’s where DWEN comes in to help, aiming to provide a foundation for growth. Its members represent 118 countries including places as diverse as Iceland, Tanzania, and even the North Pole. Business and industries involved include healthcare, marketing, business services, IT, education, and financial services. Despite the challenges of the global pandemic, the organization has managed to develop over 30 chapters across the globe, each organically hosting virtual events based on the needs of their local areas and ecosystems.
So, how does the Dell Women’s Entrepreneur Network help women in business? Besides extensive meetings and community gatherings that have been demonstrated to help facilitate business deals and connections between members, it also offers extensive resources.
The DWEN.com website offers a robust community site that’s full of educational materials, mentorship opportunities, inspirational podcasts, as well as content from partners such as Fast Company, Intel, and legal firm, Hogan Lovells.
DWEN also provides its members with coaching sessions known as Empower Hour. These one-to-many coaching sessions are led by Wiseher, a new partner with DWEN. Wiseher is a female-founded company that hooks users up to professional coaches, consultants, and mentors for one-to-one sessions on many useful topics. DWEN has arranged a series of sessions with the company so all its members can learn more about marketing, leadership, funding, and much more.
DWEN and Dell’s Government Affairs team also has women’s backs in terms of presenting on the status of government funding and aid for small businesses including PPP. Such counsel led to several members being able to secure necessary funding.
It also has partnerships with organizations like Black Girl Venture, with DWEN subsidizing the costs of BGV monthly memberships for members, along with sponsoring its pitch competition where $10,000 in funding will be given out.
Finally, thanks to DWEN being part of Dell, there are special offers available on Dell products for all its members. You also receive access to a portfolio of technology solutions and small business advisors so you can make sure you use technology in the most effective way for your firm.
Networking and forming a community are always a great way of ensuring your small business grows and you feel more like you’re part of something bigger than just yourself. At a time when we’re all feeling a little more isolated, DWEN has stayed on top of the shift to digital and virtual means, ensuring no one is left behind during these uncertain times.
DWEN is at the same time growing from strength to strength. In just a few months, it has grown to have over 20,000 active members all around the world. That’s up from 5,000 earlier this year, and it’s sure to become stronger and more helpful to its membership as it continues to grow.
DWEN membership comprises three different types; female founders and business owners who wish to use the community to advance their business, product, or service; aspiring entrepreneurs who are in the midst of building or pursuing their own business venture; and DWEN champions who include investors, partners, and Dell Technologies Team members who are there to support female entrepreneurs.
Whatever your motivation for joining DWEN, this is a fantastic time to become a part of the organization. Whether you want to help those working their way up right now, or need the assistance yourself, it’s great to become a part of something bigger that helps us all feel a little bit more connected during these strange times. Register today and make a big step forward in achieving your goals.
Dell Tech News Deals This content was produced in partnership with ZipRecruiter.
Hiring the right people is a crucial part of developing your business. The best person for the job will be one that shares your vision, is highly responsible, appropriately skilled, and is an efficient worker. You know what you want from your next employee but what do you do when it comes to finding that person? With many different sources out there for finding the best way to hire employees, we've picked out the best places to hire people online including ways to find employees online fast or for a long-term commitment. There are dozens of sites available but it's important to pick the best outlet for the task, so you can spend less time on your recruitment drive and more time interviewing the best candidates for the job. Take a look below at the best places to hire people online.
ZipRecruiter One of the most reliable names in the job posting world, ZipRecruiter is a great way of finding staff and quickly. It aims to make the hiring process as smooth as possible. It works by connecting to more than 100 job boards so the moment you create a job listing for your firm, ZipRecruiter posts it across the huge network so you're casting the net as wide as possible without having to manually create job listings at numerous sources.
Computing You need a bag to safely transport your laptop with you to work or school, but not all laptop bags are created equal. Some bags aren’t robust enough to carry heavier models or large enough to carry your charger and extra supplies. Some bags come at an affordable price, while other options are more of an investment.
Whether you’re in search of a sleek briefcase or a tricked-out gaming backpack, skip the guesswork and read on to find out the best ways to carry your laptop in 2023.
Business This content was produced in partnership with ZipRecruiter.
The best employment software, and comparable mobile applications, offer a valuable set of tools for hiring managers, HR, and even recruiters. They essentially streamline the candidate search and onboarding processes, making it easier to find potential hires but also to communicate, engage, and research them more in-depth. It stands to reason then that the best hiring apps for recruiters are the same hiring resources that nearly every professional can use, and while that may be true, there's one exception. Recruiting specific tools make it easier for recruiters to seek out and secure top-tier talent, and to continue that consistently. That means they include talent sourcing tools, interviewing, and communication tools, and sometimes scheduling and calendar tools to keep everything organized.
You might not think they're much different, but for recruiters, the best hiring apps also offer a reliable way to keep their finger on the pulse of the very broad talent pool. In light of that, here are the best hiring apps for recruiters: Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
