Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Record a Microsoft Teams Meeting Leave a Team on Microsoft Teams Keep Microsoft Teams Status Active Join a Microsoft Teams Meeting Create a Team in Microsoft Teams Home Business Deals Mobile-first: Empower virtual workers with Verizon Mobile for Microsoft Teams By Digital Trends Staff Close Image used with permission by copyright holder This content was produced in partnership with Verizon.
Enterprise-Grade Mobile Communications Enables Anywhere Work and Reduces Costs How Do Employees Benefit? Verizon Mobile for Microsoft Teams: Getting Started In today’s fast-paced business environment, being able to communicate quickly and reliably with coworkers, customers, partners and others is essential. But for many organizations, their workforces are increasingly distributed, hybrid and mobile, and their collaboration experience is fragmented with many, disparate solutions, devices and tools that often don’t work well together. That’s why many companies are turning to collaborative apps like Microsoft Teams to help workers more effectively connect and collaborate no matter where they are.
Microsoft Teams is a comprehensive collaboration work experience that includes meetings, internal calling, chat and more. While Teams has become synonymous with modern work, out of the box it doesn’t offer the ability to make and receive calls outside the organization. Since many employees work remotely, in the field or on the go and need to retain access to enterprise-grade functionality, having a fully-featured unified communication solution from a mobile device is vital. That’s where Verizon Mobile for Microsoft Teams comes into play.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
Verizon is the first U.S. operator to unlock the power of Microsoft Teams and deliver a truly native mobile collaboration experience. With Verizon for Microsoft Teams , taking a Teams call is as simple as answering your business-provided Verizon mobile device. And calls from the mobile native dialer can be seamlessly uplifted into Teams for a complete virtual meeting and collaboration experience.
Learn More Enterprise-Grade Mobile Communications Enables Anywhere Work and Reduces Costs When working remotely, employees expect the same reliable and efficient collaboration experience they have while in the office or at a dedicated worksite. Juggling multiple communication endpoints can be tedious, frustrating, and even negatively impact the customer experience for employees if they are unable to respond to clients in a timely manner. But with Verizon Mobile for Microsoft Teams, workers get the security, reliability, E911 services and features they expect from an enterprise-grade calling solution, coupled with an easy-to-use, complete mobile-first Teams collaboration experience.
Verizon Mobile for Microsoft Teams provides superior call quality and reliability, as Teams calls using the smartphone’s native keypad or dialer are delivered as voice over LTE (VoLTE) calls, not data, over Verizon’s 5G /LTE wireless networks. Users stay connected virtually anywhere with the simplicity of one phone number that works across mobile and Teams endpoints. Incoming calls ring simultaneously on all Teams endpoints, including the mobile phone, computer, tablet or desk phone. And there is no need to have the Teams app open so staff will miss fewer calls, be more productive and ready to deliver exceptional customer experiences without missing a beat.
How Do Employees Benefit? Image used with permission by copyright holder With Verizon Mobile for Microsoft Teams: Improve productivity and responsiveness by giving employees tools to work securely from anywhere across the devices of their choice Reduce costs by consolidating multiple phone numbers into a single, mobile number, eliminating redundancies and driving out costs Unify communications and streamline the tools used by employees Enable corporate calling policies such as call recording and retention of voice calls, compliance and data governance protocols to users’ mobile devices Provide calling redundancy across the organization in case the Teams platform experiences an outage Simplify the management of mobile phone numbers by consolidating to a single, mobile phone number using the Teams admin interface Fully manage voice security and connectivity in the Verizon cloud How Does It Work? Imagine you need to make an important call on your way into the office but your company mandates that all business calls must be recorded and made on a business-provided line. In the past that meant having to wait until you got to the office to make the call. But with the addition of a third-party solution, call recording can be extended to mobile devices allowing Teams calls to be recorded for compliance. Now, with Verizon Mobile for Microsoft Teams, you can make Teams calls from wherever work takes you and be assured that you are in compliance with corporate policies. And when you reach the office, you can seamlessly uplift the call from the mobile native dialer to the Teams app on your PC, without dropping the call and access the Teams capabilities that you rely on, without interrupting the flow of work.
Mobile and frontline employees also have access to intuitive, easy-to-use Teams features on any device, regardless of location. For example, they can view combined call history and voicemail via the mobile native dialer and Teams endpoints, create virtual meetings on the go, and so much more.
Verizon Mobile for Microsoft Teams: Getting Started Verizon Mobile for Microsoft Teams mobilizes Microsoft Teams by turning a business-provided Verizon mobile device into a Teams endpoint. Make and receive calls outside the organization, and when needed, seamlessly move calls made via the mobile native dialer directly to Teams, giving users anywhere access to Teams capabilities. The simplicity and convenience of a single phone number that works across all Teams endpoints gives remote and on-the-go users the same Teams experience they know and rely on when working onsite, in the field, or at home.
Learn More Editors' Recommendations Squarespace Courses: Empowering the next-generation of creative entrepreneurs It’s time to consider virtual machines: VMware’s Fusion Pro and Workstation Pro This Tool Can Seriously Help You Grow Your Small Business No W-2s? 2023 is the year of QuickBooks Online Save on your first 12 months of Loom with this Digital Trends offer Branded & Sponsored Content Business Communication Software Microsoft Microsoft Teams Verizon Deals These days, there's a lot of talk about what you should and shouldn't do as a business to woo new customers and keep existing ones happy. Just read any one of the many marketing-friendly guides out there and you'll see a host of tips about improving your customer service, adding new features, beefing up product quality, and so on. Indeed, these are all good changes to make, and they lead to a more successful business overall, but they have one thing in common, and that's why they make such a difference. They are customer-centric. They put the customer's needs and experience first while improving the general experience for everyone else.
Customer-centric companies are 60% more profitable than those that aren't. But that's such a broad term, and it could reference so many different facets of a business from customer service to product delivery and personalization. Where is the best place to start, and what should be a core focus? It all boils down to creating and delivering, a seamless, connected experience for employees and customers alike. In other words, "customer-centric" can be achieved today by deploying an integrated unified communications as a service (UCaaS) and contact center as a service (CCaaS) solution like RingCentral. Wait, what? Slow down.
Why do unified communications matter? Business This content was produced in partnership with ZipRecruiter.
Without the right talent or the right people rather, no business could thrive, big or small. But finding top talent is extremely crucial for small businesses, especially when it comes to remaining competitive in today's market. Smaller operations generally have limited resources, so it's necessary to improve productivity and efficiency wherever possible, which is precisely where securing good talent comes into the picture. But how do you find those people? The answer is via hiring platforms a la ZipRecruiter. They not only bring in the talent but also help you better understand the people, their work histories, and their overall expertise. Moreover, they help streamline the hiring process making it easier to find relevant candidates.
In light of that, here are the seven best hiring platforms for small businesses that can help you secure a competitive edge with top-tier talent: Deals This content was produced in partnership with ZipRecruiter.
Hiring the right people is a crucial part of developing your business. The best person for the job will be one that shares your vision, is highly responsible, appropriately skilled, and is an efficient worker. You know what you want from your next employee but what do you do when it comes to finding that person? With many different sources out there for finding the best way to hire employees, we've picked out the best places to hire people online including ways to find employees online fast or for a long-term commitment. There are dozens of sites available but it's important to pick the best outlet for the task, so you can spend less time on your recruitment drive and more time interviewing the best candidates for the job. Take a look below at the best places to hire people online.
ZipRecruiter One of the most reliable names in the job posting world, ZipRecruiter is a great way of finding staff and quickly. It aims to make the hiring process as smooth as possible. It works by connecting to more than 100 job boards so the moment you create a job listing for your firm, ZipRecruiter posts it across the huge network so you're casting the net as wide as possible without having to manually create job listings at numerous sources.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
