Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Way to Hire Employees Highest Paying Jobs Best Business Laptops What is RingCentral? Best VPN Best Job Search Sites Home Business News Filmora at VidCon 2023: YouTube Creators Embrace AI for Future Video Content By Briley Kenney Close Image used with permission by copyright holder This content was produced in partnership with Wondershare.
VidCon 2023, YouTube Creators, and Filmora’s AI tools Putting Filmora’s AI through its paces Wondershare’s Filmora has shown everyone how it’s done at VidCon 2023, highlighting its unique AI-powered tools that elevate video content creation for everyone, not just the experts out there. But before we dig ourselves too deep, let’s backtrack a little.
I think most of us can agree we are in the age of artificial intelligence. Maybe it’s not taking over anytime soon, but there are dozens, if not hundreds of new tools available across a swath of industries. Of course, it shows some real promise in the world of creativity, allowing many of us to be more productive than ever. The world of video creation is no exception to that rule, and AI really stands out as a useful tool. Understandably, Wondershare Filmora have acted quickly to capture practical trends, by adding AI-powered tools to the video content creation suite.
Filmora , as you may know, is an excellent video production and editing tool, that truly simplifies the entire process of video creation — and allows content creators to take their vision to the next level with unique alterations, effects, and toolsets.
Down the Filmora AI rabbit hole In line with what we’re seeing all across the modern world, Filmora’s AI-powered tools and features have increased the productivity of video creators using the platform, making way for more innovative and varied creativity. For example, Filmora 12 integrates ChatGPT to offer a Swift Script Feature to content creators, but also to provide AI copywriting for published content. Videographers can use the functionality to help generate cohesive video scripts, chapter themes for series-based content, engaging titles, social media captions, video descriptions and so much more. That allows them to focus on what they love most, and ultimately, get back to creating amazing video content.
While Filmora’s team attended VidCon 2023, in Anaheim, California, from June 21 to June 24, the goal — as part of their Project Go Viral campaign — was to introduce their new AI solutions to a wider audience and help everyone understand how they can unlock your creative potential. By sponsoring a creative session between popular YouTubers, NichLmao and Jensen Tung , we learned precisely how skilled content creators use the technology in this new era of AI-powered video creations.
“Editing videos takes a lot of time. Once you have done better, you will want to put more efforts on it. There is no way of getting around it,” says NichLMao. “I tried Filmora’s AI tools a while ago. It’s really amazing to see how it can do something with a few clicks. For people who just started and don’t have that much time to spend on editing, Filmora really helps.” VidCon 2023, YouTube Creators, and Filmora’s AI tools Image used with permission by copyright holder On everyone’s mind these days is the constant news cycle about new AI capabilities and tools, not unlike what Filmora is now offering to videographers and video content creators. There is a change in the air that’s almost palpable, not because AI will someday take over and reduce human creativity, but quite the opposite. In Filmora’s case, the AI tools handle most of the tedious work, allowing creators to focus on what’s truly important to them — the video content and creating in and of itself.
“I’m creating around 30 videos a month now. When you have spent 2 and half hours editing, those little tasks like writing titles and creating thumbnails become very challenging. It’s even more challenging when I create new videos every day. It’s amazing to see that Filmora’s tools can help with that. It definitely saves a lot of time.” Filmora’s AI tools are a valuable addition according to Nich, and his direct hands-on.
He goes on further to elaborate about the future of AI, as well. “I’m very optimistic about the AI trend. I think there will be a lot of tools that can help creators. We can take advantage of the tools like Filmora and utilize them to make our work better.” Filmora’s AI can help create eye-catching thumbnails, aid with complex video editing tasks, like making cutouts, create copy and text to go along with video content and enhance audio for next-gen editing and splicing. By all rights, it makes the video content created with the toolset that much better. It’s powerful, reliable, and easy to use, so it’s accessible to everyone, even those just getting started in the YouTube circuit.
At VidCon 2023, the involved YouTubers, and the Filmora team, explained to all of us how to maximize the use of these new AI tools. It’s something that everyone should pay attention to, video experts or not because even if it’s not information that you can use in your day-to-day activities, it gives you an idea of where modern AI is headed.
Putting Filmora’s AI through its paces Image used with permission by copyright holder From enhancing the content being created to taking over challenging busywork like writing YouTube video descriptions or creating thumbnails, videographers can now leverage Filmora to do these things, quickly and effectively. That gives anyone using the tool a competitive edge but also elevates YouTube content beyond anything we’ve ever seen before. You can now create professional-quality video content, with high-fidelity production value, using just a simple set of Filmora features. How amazing is that? VidCon 2023 allowed us to see how some of the major YouTube creators are utilizing the platform, but of course, if you’re more of a hands-on person, you can always do that yourself right now — there’s no need to wait.
Deals Business Tech News Business This content was produced in partnership with ZipRecruiter.
Without the right talent or the right people rather, no business could thrive, big or small. But finding top talent is extremely crucial for small businesses, especially when it comes to remaining competitive in today's market. Smaller operations generally have limited resources, so it's necessary to improve productivity and efficiency wherever possible, which is precisely where securing good talent comes into the picture. But how do you find those people? The answer is via hiring platforms a la ZipRecruiter. They not only bring in the talent but also help you better understand the people, their work histories, and their overall expertise. Moreover, they help streamline the hiring process making it easier to find relevant candidates.
In light of that, here are the seven best hiring platforms for small businesses that can help you secure a competitive edge with top-tier talent: Deals This content was produced in partnership with ZipRecruiter.
Hiring the right people is a crucial part of developing your business. The best person for the job will be one that shares your vision, is highly responsible, appropriately skilled, and is an efficient worker. You know what you want from your next employee but what do you do when it comes to finding that person? With many different sources out there for finding the best way to hire employees, we've picked out the best places to hire people online including ways to find employees online fast or for a long-term commitment. There are dozens of sites available but it's important to pick the best outlet for the task, so you can spend less time on your recruitment drive and more time interviewing the best candidates for the job. Take a look below at the best places to hire people online.
ZipRecruiter One of the most reliable names in the job posting world, ZipRecruiter is a great way of finding staff and quickly. It aims to make the hiring process as smooth as possible. It works by connecting to more than 100 job boards so the moment you create a job listing for your firm, ZipRecruiter posts it across the huge network so you're casting the net as wide as possible without having to manually create job listings at numerous sources.
Computing You need a bag to safely transport your laptop with you to work or school, but not all laptop bags are created equal. Some bags aren’t robust enough to carry heavier models or large enough to carry your charger and extra supplies. Some bags come at an affordable price, while other options are more of an investment.
Whether you’re in search of a sleek briefcase or a tricked-out gaming backpack, skip the guesswork and read on to find out the best ways to carry your laptop in 2023.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
