Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Way to Hire Employees Highest Paying Jobs Best Business Laptops What is RingCentral? Best VPN Best Job Search Sites Home Business Deals Hiring managers need to see this: tips to hire top talent in your sector By John Alexander Close Image used with permission by copyright holder This content was produced in partnership with ZipRecruiter.
Become heard Create the perfect job ad The great filtration Only great matches? Avoid unnecessary costs Yes, you could get started right now posting a job opportunity on one of the many boards. But you’re not guaranteed to find the best candidates that way. Getting a worker for your open role, in any field, is never easy. This is even more the case when you need someone specialized or need to hire someone fast. Just posting a job and vetting candidates can take a while, let alone on-boarding your new employees. As your business grows, so too will this issue.
When looking for the right applicant, how do you create an engaging and desirable job posting? How do you look for people with specific skills and filter for only those who qualify? These are all really challenging questions that need to be asked, and answered, before getting your ideal worker on the scene.
The process can be confusing and, to be fair, rather daunting. Luckily, there are many smart and practical solutions that can help you during the hiring process no matter your level of expertise or business size. We’ve put together some useful tips to hire top-tier talent in your field, and beyond.
Become heard It’s been said that the squeaky wheel gets the grease.
In other words, being “noisy” matters for hiring within your field. There’s a reason that thousands upon thousands of potential candidates go to the hiring pages of Amazon or Google each day. They know those companies and what they stand for. They’ve also got thousands of employees chattering about what they like about working there and a sizable recruiting department to seek out and nab the best of the best in the world. While the focus may not be on tech here, the point is that the largest and most renowned companies have a leg up because they’re so well-heard.
Chances are, however, if you’re reading this you aren’t the head of Google. As a smaller, maybe even medium-sized business, you need to generate potential leads to employees in another way. One possibility is to advertise that you are hiring alongside your normal public outreach campaigns. Another is to reach out to your network and see if there is somebody who knows a person with the skills you need.
While these two methods do work, eventually, and may be the most comfortable, they don’t cast a wide net and put an immediate skills cap on who your company will likely hire. Instead, consider posting to a job board. Or, better yet, multiple job boards. The best hiring sites have a large network of job boards and communities they interact with, for example. Just create your ad once and let them do the rest of the work. Options like TrafficBoost that can quickly promote your job to hundreds of likely candidates quickly.
Create the perfect job ad Job ads are relatively easy to create and many hiring sites walk you through the process, but today’s workers are choosy. Despite dark clouds looming on the economic horizon, this class of worker not only has relatively high prospects, they’ve also been used to having higher-than-average prospects for quite some time.
The result is a hiring process that can feel flipped for some employers. Appealing to candidates can start to feel more like applying for them to work with you than the reverse. As a result, wishy-washy ads with unprofessional markups and low information are completely overlooked by the high-quality candidates your company is looking to hire.
To entice the right workers: Introduce your company with a friendly, but serious mission statement.
Avoid “cutesy” job titles.
Use bullet points to clearly list responsibilities, qualifications, and other info clearly.
Be upfront about remote or hybrid work conditions. Candidates want to know about this before applying.
Similarly, consider displaying salary ranges to avoid wasting both your and the potential candidate’s time.
Show the job’s benefits to display you are a serious company.
If this all sounds a bit daunting or you’re worried that you’ll miss something that will put off the most talented professionals, you aren’t alone. Luckily, the modern job posting process takes a lot of work out of your hands. For example, when you enter a job title, the program will provide templates for many common job titles and provide expected salary expectations for your role.
The great filtration Soon after your job ad goes live on a major hiring platform , resumes will start piling in. This can often lead to the exact opposite problem of not being seen at all. When it rains, it pours, and when you’re creating a good job you may as well expect a deluge.
While it’d be nice to sit down and fairly evaluate each resume, reading over every word, that probably isn’t feasible. Get tired of reading quickly? You’re in good company. Recruiters often look at resumes for a mere 7 seconds before continuing on.
You’ll need some sort of filtration. A resume database is one great example of a filtration system. The tool sorts through resumes in a database based on specific parameters, such as by location, skills, and even the date of resume upload. It can help you sort through applicants fast, and makes it easier to pinpoint candidates that match the job requirements.
Another cool factor? Once you start “liking” potential employees, many of these platforms will automatically start serving you similar candidates for that role so you can zero in on the perfect choice. Indeed’s Instant Match feature, duplicated in some way across a lot of hiring sites, auto connects the top candidates to your new job postings using qualifiers, keywords, and more.
Only great matches? One of the somewhat hidden rules of job boards that is equally frustrating for candidates and employers is how they are paid for. At least partly by clicks. This results in a system where a job board is incentivized to push jobs in a candidate’s face that they might not even be interested in. Companies waste a lot of money on clicks they didn’t want and applicants waste a ton of time sorting through the garbage.
When potential candidates apply through the ZipRecruiter website , the view is totally different from typical boards. It actually lets the candidates get a good feel for their strength before applying by giving them a match strength as seen here: Image used with permission by copyright holder According to reports, only 10% of applications are identified as a “Great Match.” If you have one as a job seeker, there is a much higher chance that your application will get recognized by the employer. It encourages you to apply. On the other hand, if you don’t have one, there’s less incentive to click. Nobody’s time or money is wasted and only the workers with the specific skills you need will be tempted to apply.
Another awesome thing about this system is that it can remind employees to add old experiences in their resumes they might’ve overlooked. For example, I’m a commerce writer now, but used to do foreign language teaching. By adding that fact to my resume I was given more opportunities to see writing jobs for ESL companies and given a Match-rating boost for those jobs. In other words, this system can bring out potential employees’ hidden skills.
 This is especially important in fields, where candidates may be reluctant to include non-related experience.
Avoid unnecessary costs You’re already seeking to pay someone money. That comes with a lot of costs: salary, risks of lawsuits, training, and possibly new office equipment.
As hinted at above, the candidate search process can take some money as well. It’s one of the reasons why so many employers skip out on job boards and hire via nepotism or current employee referrals instead.
Unfortunately, this method of gathering reliable and talented workers can present you with a workforce lacking diversity, having a huge skills gap, and not being up for the new challenges of tomorrow. To say it plainly, your C++ guy probably knows a ton of other C++ guys, but you already have one of those.
The silver lining in all of this is that even if you’re just getting started with hiring sites like ZipRecruiter nearly the entire process is free. Before you even have to enter your payment info you’ll start out on a free trial. As your free trial ends, you’ll be presented with a custom-created plan and pricing to fit your needs. Support and product specialists are also just a phone call away to get the plan details you need.
So, what are you waiting for? Post your job on ZipRecruiter today and start finding your perfect candidate today! Editors' Recommendations How to hire remote workers The Best Hiring Apps for Recruiters Find exceptional talent: the best hiring platforms for small businesses This Tool Can Seriously Help You Grow Your Small Business No W-2s? 2023 is the year of QuickBooks Online Deals Business Deals This content was produced in partnership with ZipRecruiter.
There's no question, we're in a strange market. There are many opportunities out there, but some of the bigger tech companies are laying people off due to the troubled economy. Some have even imposed a hiring freeze, but that doesn't mean you can't find openings in a tech field. Quite the opposite is true, actually, especially if you know where to look, and more importantly, how to prepare. It doesn't matter whether you already have a job or not, as it may be time to move on and advance your career, or simply look for a much better opportunity. Whatever the case, preparing for new roles, updating your resume, and practicing your interviewing skills, are just the beginning. There's a lot to do, and it can certainly be easy to overlook critical steps. That's precisely why we've put together this guide, detailing 10 tips that can help you find a new tech role, prepare for potential openings, and kickstart your job search journey. They're relevant if you already have a job, but also if you're looking for gainful employment altogether.
1. Define what you're looking for The tech industry is varied, and there are a lot of roles and opportunities, some even being iterations of larger roles -- like WordPress developer versus software developer, or UX designer versus UI designer. Maybe you're looking for a better opportunity than what you have currently, or maybe you want to find that diamond in the rough. Whatever your plan, you won't recognize a good opportunity if you don't already know what you're looking for. In other words, take some time to sit down and think about what it is you want.
What constitutes an ideal career path for you? Consider your desired salary range, the type of work you're willing to do, whether you're okay with branching out, if you're willing to relocate, what kind of benefits you need, or want, and much more. This is the time to decide if you want to stick with remote or hybrid opportunities versus traditional in-office roles. You might also explore your skillset to understand what unorthodox roles you qualify for. There could be other career paths or opportunities you didn't even realize existed.
2. Define your key disqualifiers What are bad qualities that you dislike or don't want to see in a potential opportunity? Some tech roles will be way out in left field, and may not even be a good fit for your knowledge, expertise, and skills. Are there verifiable red flags or pain points that you know you want to avoid? There are a lot of buzzwords and phrases used in job postings that can help you suss out undesirable positions.
Deals This content was produced in partnership with Intuit.
Starting a new business is no small feat, and that's true regardless of how big your team is, whether you're a young entrepreneur hustling solo or you have a crew on your payroll. But modern and digital tools make it a whole lot easier, offering both convenient and highly-capable solutions for the average business. You can do things that big businesses do, but with far less resources. For example, Intuit's QuickBooks suite helps you auto-track business income and expenses, pay your employees and partners, and file your taxes, streamlining and automating your bookkeeping. In fact, QuickBooks is one of the best solutions for managing a business, and QuickBooks Online kicks that up a notch.
gives you anytime, anywhere access to business tools for stress-free financial planning and more. Let's take a close look at how Intuit's suite, including QuickBooks Online and Deals This content was produced in partnership with Dashlane.
Picture this: You're trying to log in to a service, but you forgot your username because it's unique and doesn't use your email address. Unfortunately, you don't remember your password either. First, you'll need to recover your username and then go through the motions to change your password. But here's the thing: After you log in with your new password, there's no guarantee you'll remember it again a day later or longer. There should be a better way to manage and recover your passwords.
Cybersecurity, or rather the security of your data, is something that concerns everyone. One of the best ways to protect yourself, personally and professionally, is to make sure that you're using secure passwords, along with two-factor authentication wherever applicable. Also, you should never reuse passwords across accounts, which is something that, admittedly, can be quite challenging to do. Keeping track of all your passwords because you likely have so many online accounts is not just troublesome, it's downright impossible. There is just no way to keep tabs on all of that information without writing it down, typing it out, or recording it somewhere.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
