Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Way to Hire Employees Highest Paying Jobs Best Business Laptops What is RingCentral? Best VPN Best Job Search Sites Home Computing Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best 17-inch laptop bags and backpacks for 2023 By Tyler Lacoma Close You need a bag to safely transport your laptop with you to work or school, but not all laptop bags are created equal. Some bags aren’t robust enough to carry heavier models or large enough to carry your charger and extra supplies. Some bags come at an affordable price, while other options are more of an investment.
Whether you’re in search of a sleek briefcase or a tricked-out gaming backpack, skip the guesswork and read on to find out the best ways to carry your laptop in 2023.
Want even more options? Check out our guide to the best laptop bags , no matter what size machine you have.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
More Image used with permission by copyright holder Vaschy 17-inch Laptop Backpack with USB charging port Best overall Water-resistant USB charging port Lightweight, but has lots of storage space and organizing pockets/sections No water bottle pocket This simple and reliable Vaschy backpack is made of water-resistant polyester and offers plenty of extra storage while still staying lightweight. The pack includes multiple sections, five interior pockets, and, of course, a padded laptop compartment. It also has a USB charging port built-in. This allows you to easily charge your devices on the go, and is a nice feature for those frequently on the move, such as remote workers or students.
Asus Asus ROG Nomad V2 backpack Best for gamers Dedicated pockets for gaming accessories Water-repellent Back padding is ventilated A bit bulky This Asus bag is designed with school or backpacking in mind and specifically for gamers who need to carry their heavy-duty systems around. It is also made to look like a gladiator helmet, which, well — judge for yourself on that count. However, the rugged design is handy, and there are lots of dedicated pockets for headsets, mice, water bottles, keyboards, and other accessories that gamers may need on the go, making this a very complete package.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Everki Advance Laptop Bag - Briefcase Best briefcase-style option Extra large: Can fit up to 18.4-inch laptops Has a trolley handle passthrough High-contrast lining to help you see your items Only comes in one color/no variety in appearance Everki is all about productivity and usability, and this simple briefcase is an excellent choice for all kinds of work or play environments. Everything about it is no-nonsense, and it’s big enough to carry 18.4-inch laptops if necessary. The top-loading laptop compartment is padded, and the briefcase also includes a shoulder strap and a trolley handle passthrough.
Image used with permission by copyright holder McKleinUSA Damen Best luggage-style option Gorgeous design, made with cowhide leather Has a detachable wheel and handle system Expandable three-file divider in the front compartment for more storage space Pricey We have to admit, this is a seriously classy laptop case for those who want to make a real statement on their travels. And “travels” is the operative word, too — no backpacking around campus for this suitcase, with its built-in wheels and extendable towing handle. The suitcase material is made from soft, plushy “cowhide leather” material. The laptop case itself includes a foam-protected compartment to minimize shock.
More Amazon Solo Fifth Avenue Attaché Best business option Easy to use Has combination locks Sleek, professional look A true briefcase, so it only has a carry handle One of the essential features of a stellar laptop case is its convenience. Sure, it has to protect your devices, but it primarily needs to be effortless to use. One excellent, statement laptop case is the Solo Fifth Avenue Attaché. This case typically comes in a sleek silver color and has an extra layer of security with combination locks. You’ll find that the interior features a laptop compartment with adjustable spacers, an organizer section, and a file compartment.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Razer Rogue v3 18-inch Gaming Laptop backpack Best durable gaming laptop backpack option Lots of features that emphasize durability Bright interior colors Handy compartments for a variety of accessories Huge company logo on the front may not be ideal for those who prefer a more low-key look For a more dedicated gaming backpack, we recommend this hardy (and stylish) Razer pack that's designed to be durable enough for all your gaming accessories, including up to an 18-inch laptop. The outside is designed with water-resistant materials that resist tears. Inside, in addition to bright interior colors, you’ll find compartments for a variety of gaming accessories.
The Rogue will shine most for gamers on the go who still like to show off a little.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Kroser Laptop Backpack Best budget-friendly option Budget-friendly backpack that still offers tons of helpful features Has a USB charging port Water-repellent It is very large, and may be too bulky for some people to carry around Those looking for a more affordable bag that can still handle large laptops will be pleased by Kroser’s budget-friendly pack. The outside is made of a water-repellent fabric blend and is available in two colors. On the inside, you will find a padded compartment compatible with your 17-inch laptop. This Kroser bag has front pockets for storing small accessories like your phone or keys, and it has two zipped side pockets. The backpack also includes a built-in USB port for easy device charging.
It's a great, affordable carry-all option for those who own larger laptops.
Editors' Recommendations Best Black Friday gaming laptop deals: Cheapest prices today Best Razer gaming laptop Black Friday deals worth shopping now The best 17-inch laptop Black Friday deals you can shop right now The best budget laptops for 2023 Best 17-inch laptop deals: Big savings on big screens Business Gaming Best Products Laptops Computing Whether you're looking for a simple, cheap laptop or a gaming behemoth, HP is a great option to consider. There are always nice laptop deals at HP, on big rigs and simple Chromebooks. If you're not sure where to start, check out our list below. It includes HP laptops as cheap as $199 and as expensive as $1,250, with savings as big as $450.
14-inch HP Chromebook X360 -- $199, was $329 The cheapest option on this list is the Chromebook x360 from HP. It's a great option for students, since it runs fast and light, and the price is low. It does have some interesting bonuses, like the 2-in-1 ability. This is great if you like using a tablet but occasionally want a full keyboard for writing essays or answering emails. The HP x360 Chromebook has a FHD screen, 4GB of RAM 64GB of eMMC storage, and an Intel Celeron processor.
Computing While some of the best laptops are designed to cater to different types of users and purposes, you're going to need a gaming laptop if you want to play the best PC games. That's because these machines are designed to meet the strict requirements of gamers, which also makes them a bit more expensive. Fortunately, there's no shortage of gaming laptop deals online, and to help you make your choice, we've rounded up some of the top offers right here. Whether you're on a tight budget or you're aiming for a powerful machine, there's something here for everyone.
HP Victus 15 (Intel) -- $550, was $900 The HP Victus 15 is one of the cheapest gaming laptops in the market, but it still provides decent performance with the latest 13th-generation Intel Core i5 processor, Nvidia GeForce RTX 3050 graphics card, and 8GB of RAM. With these specifications, you can play today's most popular games, but you'll have to go with low to medium graphic settings for the more demanding titles. The gaming laptop is also equipped with a 15.6-inch Full HD screen with a 144Hz refresh rate, and a 512GB SSD with Windows 11 Home pre-loaded.
Computing As one of its early Black Friday deals, Dell has its ever popular Dell XPS 17 on sale. Normally priced at $3,149, this particular model is down to $2,449 making it one of the better laptop deals around right now. If you're keen to enjoy a high-end laptop for $700 less, read on while we take you through what to expect if you take the plunge.
Why you should buy the Dell XPS 17 As one of the best laptop brands around, Dell often features in our look at the best laptops. With this particular Dell XPS 17, you get some great hardware. That includes a 13th-generation Intel Core i7 processor along with a huge 32GB of memory. There's also 1TB of SSD storage space so you won't have any issue finding space for all your most important files or installs.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
