Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Way to Hire Employees Highest Paying Jobs Best Business Laptops What is RingCentral? Best VPN Best Job Search Sites Home Computing Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best accounting software for your small business By Don Reisinger Close Being a small business owner can be rewarding in many ways, but tasks like maintaining budgets, ensuring invoices are tracked and paid, and managing accounts payable can be difficult. Without the proper software to get the job done, it’s entirely possible companies can fall into disarray. To address that problem, many small business owners turn to dedicated accounting software, programs that usually run in the cloud and have the ability to handle all of the accounting needs of the operation.
QuickBooks Online Xero NetSuite Freshbooks Wave Accounting Sage Accounting Zoho Books In fact, this software virtually takes on roles like controller, chief financial officer, and accounts payable manager that you’d find in larger organizations. But before you set out to find the best accounting software for your business, check out the guide below. The following six solutions are the best accounting software and each one offers a diverse set of features, reasonable pricing, and everything else you need to manage your small business more efficiently.
QuickBooks Online Image used with permission by copyright holder Cloud or Desktop: Cloud-based; PC software available with the Desktop Pro Plus plan Clients Supported: Windows, Mac, Linux, iOS, Android Cost: From $25/Month Expert Help Available: Yes Payment App Integration: Yes Payroll management: Yes, additional fee Quickbooks Online is one of the more popular cloud-based accounting platforms for small businesses. And for good reason: It offers one of the longest lists of features of any option in this roundup. When you sign up for Quickbooks Online, you have the option of choosing from three options: Simple Start, Plus, Advanced. And as you might expect, pricing will vary depending on the version you choose. The same goes for the features you’ll get with each option.
Best Black Friday laptop deals: Get a new workhorse from $129 Best HP laptop deals: Get a Windows laptop for $199 Squarespace Free Trial: Build and host your website for free The Simple Start option comes with the ability to track your income and expenses, invoice and accept payments, and run basic reports. You can also track sales and sales tax data. If you jump to the Essentials option, you’ll be able to manage your bills and allow multiple users to access your account, as well as track time. The top-notch Advanced version offers project and inventory tracking and the ability to manage 1099 contractors.
You’ll be able to get your hands on Simple Start for $25 per month. The Plus and Advanced tiers are available for $80 per month and $180 per month, respectively, but new customers can currently enjoy a 50% discount on their first three months.
Xero Image used with permission by copyright holder Cloud or Desktop: Cloud-based Clients Supported: Windows, Mac, Linux, iOS, Android Cost: From $12/Month Expert Help Available: Yes Payment App Integration: Yes Payroll management: Yes, additional fee Xero is a popular accounting platform that works both in your PC’s web browser or on your mobile device with help from Android and iPhone apps. And at a starting price of $12 per month, it offers one of the best values of any service in this roundup. Xero offers three plans — Early, Growing, and Established. The differences between them center on the number of invoices and quotes you can send each month, how many reconciled bank transactions you have, and whether you need to run payroll.
In other words, Xero plans are designed to scale with the size of your business. But before we get into the differences between these tiers, you should know that all three Xero versions come with a variety of standard features including the ability to analyze financial reports, manage invoicing, and connect to bank accounts to integrate all of your latest transactions. Xero integrates with more than 700 apps, including those that track inventory and time, to help you keep your entire business running smoothly.
The Early package, which costs $12 per month, allows you to send five invoices and quotes per month, enter five bills, and reconcile 20 transactions. The Growing plan, which is $34 per month, is the most popular tier. It allows for unlimited invoicing, bills, and bank reconciliations. Jumping to the Established plan at $65 per month offers more in-depth business analytics and allows for expense claims.
NetSuite Image used with permission by copyright holder Cloud or Desktop: Cloud-based Clients Supported: Windows, Mac, Linux, iOS, Android Cost: Custom pricing based on your needs Expert Help Available: Yes Payment App Integration: Yes Payroll management: Yes, additional fee NetSuite is part of the Oracle umbrella, a company that rivals QuickBooks in terms of name recognition and popularity. That’s because it’s one of the more advanced and feature-rich options on our list: a unified business management suite that brings ERP, CRM, and e-commerce under one roof.
With Netsuite, you can gain real time insights into numerous financial metrics and automate repetitive tasks allowing your finance team to focus on reviewing transaction details, and analyzing trends. Netsuite’s cloud based solution allows your accounting team, executives, operational teams and employees to work from anywhere, anytime. That’s not to say that it’s difficult to use if you’re not that tech-savvy; in fact, NetSuite’s cloud-based accounting software makes it easy to track and manage expenses so you can streamline your business operations.
NetSuite doesn’t have traditional subscription plans with a pre-determined set of features and limits. Instead, it offers you a customized annual pricing structure based on the size and specific needs of your business. This is determined by the optional modules for features that you want and how many users need access to it. You’ll have to contact them yourself to get your customized quote, but this is actually a good thing, as you’ll get a plan that’s tailored to how your business operates rather than a “one size fits all” solution.
Just a handful of features that NetSuite cloud accounting offers include payment and expense tracking, cash flow management, invoicing, accounts payable and receivable, tax management, and payroll. NetSuite also offers in-depth analytics to help you track your business’ performance so you can stay on top of everything.
Freshbooks Image used with permission by copyright holder Cloud or Desktop: Cloud-based Clients Supported: Windows, Mac, Linux, iOS, Android Cost: From $15/Month Expert Help Available: Yes Payment App Integration: Yes Payroll management: Yes, additional fee Due in large part to a nice slate of features and some aggressive advertising in podcasts, Freshbooks has come on the scene in a big way. And it offers an outstanding solution. Like Quickbooks Online, the cloud-based Freshbooks comes in three versions: Lite, Plus, Premium. The Lite version is ideal for small businesses that only need up to five people to access the financials, while Plus is available for up to 50 people. The Premium version allows for an unlimited number of billable clients.
The Lite version offers unlimited invoicing and estimating for up to five clients, as well as time-tracking and online credit card payments. If you want to send payment reminders, charge late fees, and get accounting reports like general ledgers and charts of account, you can move up to the Plus version. The highest-end Premium option includes all of the features you’ll get in Plus while allowing you to add many more people to the account.
All of the plans are available with a 30-day free trial. The Lite version costs $15 per month, Plus goes for $25 per month, and Premium will set you back $50 per month, but right now, you can sign up and get your first six months for 60% off.
Wave Accounting Image used with permission by copyright holder Cloud or Desktop: Cloud-based Clients Supported: Windows, Mac, Linux, iOS, Android Cost: From $0/Month Expert Help Available: Yes Payment App Integration: Yes Payroll management: Yes, with Payroll plan Wave Accounting has established itself as one of the leading third-party cloud-based solutions providers outside of QuickBooks and Oracle. The company’s accounting software is aimed squarely at the small business owner who wants some accounting help.
Like most other services in the industry, there are three plans for Wave Accounting (Free, Payments, and Payroll), but the pricing structure is different than the others. The basic Free plan allows for unlimited income and expense tracking as well as invoicing, and is great if your accounting needs are simple. The Payments tier is a pay-per-use plan which charges a fee of between 1% and 3.4% per transaction, depending upon the method of payment.
If you need payroll management, then the aptly named Payroll plan allows for that. It has a $20 monthly base fee in self-service states or a $35 monthly fee for tax service states, plus $6 per employee or independent contractor paid. You can create custom invoices in the plan and track all of your expenses. If you want to pay only for what you use rather than be locked into a monthly payment plan, Wave Accounting is a good solution.
Sage Accounting Image used with permission by copyright holder Cloud or Desktop: Cloud-based Clients Supported: Windows, Mac, Linux, iOS, Android Cost: From $10/Month Expert Help Available: Yes Payment App Integration: Yes, Stripe Payroll management: Yes, extra fee Sage Accounting is another good value option for small businesses and even self-employed individuals who could use an easier way to manage their finances. Sage is entirely cloud-based, and offers two subscription tiers: The $10/month Sage Accounting Start plan is ideal for those looking for a more basic, entry-level accounting software solution, while the $25/month Sage Accounting package is a bit more powerful.
The Sage Accounting Start plan allows you to create and send invoices, track your income (including what you’re owed), and connect your bank account to streamline payments. This is great for self-employed individuals who don’t need accounting software with a lot of bells and whistles. The more business-oriented Sage Accounting tier offers everything you’d get in the Start plan but adds important features, including payroll support, billing, tax filing, cash flow management, and expense tracking.
While the Sage Accounting Start package is ideal for individual users, Sage Accounting allows for an unlimited number of users. Both plans also offer a free trial, and right now, the Sage Accounting plan is 70% off for the first six months, making it cheaper than the Start plan if you want to take advantage of those extra features.
Zoho Books Image used with permission by copyright holder Cloud or Desktop : Cloud-based, mobile apps available Clients Supported : Windows, Mac, Linux, iOS, Android Cost : From $15/Month Expert Help Available : Yes Payment App Integration : Yes Payroll management : Yes, additional fee Zoho Books offers a simple to use set of cloud-based accounting tools that make it easy to manage your finances, automate business workflows, and help you work across departments. Its dashboard provides keen insight into your total receivables and payables at a glance, with numerous graphs demonstrating your business’s cash flow as well as top expenses, and income.
Through Zoho Books, you can easily create invoices in seconds, chase payments, create purchase orders as well as upload expense receipts. It’s also possible to keep track of your company’s inventory levels at all times, while being able to replenish stock quickly.
Elsewhere, Zoho Books also allows for you to keep track of time spent on projects as well as monitor unmilled hours and expenses. Through the interface, one can also keep all their contacts in a single place so it’s easy to collaborate with clients or even securely store their payment information. Extensive reports mean you always know what’s going on too.
The Standard plan costs from $15 per month and allows you to manage up to 5,000 invoices, integrate with services like Zendesk, as well as allows for bulk updates, and recurring expenses. Upgrade to Professional from $40 per month and you also gain retainer invoice functionality, sales orders, purchase orders, currency adjustments, and extensive timesheet features. The Premium plan at $60 per month offers up all the above features along with a vendor portal, budgeting, workflow rules, and custom reports, amongst many other options.
Sign Up Here Editors' Recommendations Best Black Friday gaming laptop deals: Cheapest prices today Best 17-inch laptop deals: Big savings on big screens Best gaming laptop deals: Game on the go from just $550 QuickBooks Free Trial: Get a month of accounting for free Adobe Photoshop Free Trial: Get a month of editing for free Business Business Deals When entering a hazardous property and dealing with dangerous chemicals, you wear a hazmat suit. While there is no "hazmat" suit for browsing online, there is still a way to do your business from behind a suitable wall of protection. A VPN or virtual private network can give you a small degree of protection and help you preserve your privacy and security, one much like ExpressVPN. If you're looking for an ExpressVPN free trial or simply want to know what deals are out there, we've got you covered. There are plenty of benefits to using a VPN, so it's important you sign up to one of the best VPN services around to keep safe online. Of course, no one wants to have to pay more than they have to, and it's always a great idea to give a service or experience a test run before you dole out any money. That's why a VPN free trial is a great starting point. Here's all you need to know about the ExpressVPN free trial and other deals.
Is there an ExpressVPN free trial? ExpressVPN doesn't actually offer its own free trial. Instead, it has a 30-day money-back guarantee. That means if you're not entirely happy with the service, you can cancel it before the month is up and get your money back.
Deals In your pocket, you carry a doorway to an entirely new dimension -- the digital world. Smartphones are powerful computers, more powerful than so many systems that came before, but with that comes a certain degree of risk. From banking to social engagements and beyond, we’re all more susceptible to cyber threats. Issues like hacking, identity theft, data collection, and targeted advertising are all extremely prescient. A virtual private network, or a VPN, can make consuming the digital world a much more private endeavor, and offer a small degree of protection, and some of the best VPN services offer a free trial. A good example of this is a CyberGhost free trial, which full access to CyberGhosts’ premium level features completely free. CyberGhost is among of the best VPN for streaming, as well as the best VPN for iPhone or iPad, making a CyberGhost free trial worth taking advantage of.
Is there a CyberGhost free trial? There is a CyberGhost free trial, and it’s one of the best VPN free trials you’ll come across. A CyberGhost free trial gets you full access to all of CyberGhost’s premium-level features with zero financial commitment, and it doesn’t even require you to provide credit card details to capitalize on it. The free trial allows you to enjoy the ultimate online experience on desktop or mobile. This includes access to CyberGhost’s one-click connect for instant, effortless VPN protection, access to CyberGhost’s blazing fast servers and IPs from 91 countries to choose from, as well as anonymous IPs that let you stream geo-restricted content and smart rules that allow you to create your own privacy triggers.
Deals The titular office suite, and one that just about everyone knows, called Microsoft Office, includes the renowned word processor Microsoft Word. But with the recent versions of its software, Microsoft has migrated to the cloud. Microsoft Word is a versatile and capable word processor that's essential for typing and editing written documents, among other things (and there are a lot of things you probably didn't know you could do in Microsoft Word). Microsoft Office is paid software, however, Word is included, and for some, the cost may seem high even with some of the best Microsoft Office deals floating around. So, if you're wondering if there's a Microsoft Word free trial or any other way to get it for free, read on to find out.
Is there a Microsoft Word free trial? Microsoft Word is actually part of the company's wider Office app suite. Now known simply as Microsoft 365 (formerly Microsoft Office), Microsoft's enterprise software is available in a number of different packages that are now subscription-based; the company has retired the older bundles that were available for a one-time payment. That means if you want a Microsoft Word free trial, you'll need to sign up for the Microsoft 365 trial, which includes the Word app along with Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook, Teams, OneDrive, and Editor.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
