Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Way to Hire Employees Highest Paying Jobs Best Business Laptops What is RingCentral? Best VPN Best Job Search Sites Home Computing Guides Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best free antivirus software for 2022 By Tyler Lacoma Close Now that hybrid work and working from home are the new normal for many people, you might want to consider protecting your PC, especially if you use it for work. Yet, for years, if you wanted the best antivirus software, you had to pay for genuine protection and security.
The best free antivirus software at a glance AVG AntiVirus Free ZoneAlarm Free Antivirus Malwarebytes Anti-Malware Free Avast Free Antivirus Kaspersky Security Cloud Avira Free Antivirus How do you know which free antivirus software is right for you? The best antivirus for Windows 11 Any free antivirus software admittedly lacked some critical features, like fraud protection or link blocking. While some antivirus programs cost money, there are plenty of free options with fantastic features. You don’t always have to miss out on features like malware blockers just because these antivirus options are free. Plus, you can download these programs and start using them immediately.
The best free antivirus software at a glance AVG AntiVirus Free ZoneAlarm Free Antivirus Malwarebytes Anti-Malware Free Avast Free Antivirus Kaspersky Security Cloud Avira Free Antivirus AVG AntiVirus Free AVG Press Center screenshot AVG has two major selling points. First, this free antivirus option has an impressively broad reach. The software will not only search for viruses and malware, but it also helps block suspicious links, prevent suspect downloads, and keep suspicious email attachments from being used. That makes the app a better choice for a family or elderly users on a budget.
Adobe Photoshop Free Trial: Get a month of editing for free Norton Antivirus Free Trial: Get a week of protection These are the best ultrawide monitors you buy in 2023 The second benefit is AVG’s affinity with Google platforms, as it has one of the better Android downloads. In addition to its antivirus features, the Android version of the software also has a phone tracker, which allows you to track the location of your lost phone, remotely lock it, remotely enable an alarm to ring, and even remotely wipe your mobile device clean so that your data isn’t exposed to identity thieves or anyone else you don’t want to see your personal information.
ZoneAlarm Free Antivirus screenshot ZoneAlarm provides firewalls and antivirus scanning but then goes a step further to address two growing security concerns: identify theft and data loss. Daily credit-monitoring tools prevent identity theft and a “credit education specialist” to help you work through any alerts or problems. If you don’t already have a service that helps protect your identity and data, this could be the option for you.
If you choose to download this free software you’ll need to know three things: You’ll be getting the beta version of the software, the free license to use it only lasts about a year, and most importantly, if you choose to uninstall it later it can be difficult to remove it completely from your system as some features like its browser extension aren’t necessarily removed during the installation process and may not be easily disabled.
Malwarebytes Anti-Malware Free screenshot Malwarebytes offers some of the best and most comprehensive virus-removal software available, frequently making it one of the first go-to sources for tech agencies and support groups alike.
The only caveat with the free version of Malwarebytes is that it’s more of a remediation tool than a live, protective shield. The scanning tool will find and remove anything once you’re already infected — effectively, too — but doesn’t prevent the infection from happening in the first place. For that, you need the premium version or one of the other tools on this list. Still, as a secondary layer of defense, the free version of Malwarebytes is a must.
Malwarebytes also has a free extension (Browser Guard) for Chrome, Edge, and Firefox browsers, which offers web protections such as blocking third-party ads and trackers, blocking webpages that have malware, and blocking online scams.
Avast Free Antivirus screenshot In terms of essential protection, Avast is one of the best antivirus programs available. With Avast, you can expect an antivirus program that finds and blocks all kinds of threats including viruses, spyware, ransomware, and phishing. And two other features, Wi-Fi Inspector and Smart Scan, can help you spot flaws in your security so you know what you need to fix to protect yourself. The software also includes a Do Not Disturb mode that completely silences alerts and pop-ups while you’re watching a movie or gaming.
Since it’s a free program , you’ll be missing out on some features exclusive to the premium package, including remote hacking protection and the ability to protect up to 10 devices. Those wanting such upgrades will need to opt for a subscription plan, which is about $4.19 per month for one Windows PC or Mac for the first year, or about $70 per year. Another plan also gets you protection on 10 devices for $5.79 per month. Still, sticking with the free version will keep you well-protected.
Avast also offers another, newer security suite: Avast One. There are three versions of it: Avast One Essential (the free one) and the premium versions (Avast One Individual and Avast One Family). Avast One Essential offers more protection and performance features than Avast Free Antivirus, and it’s still free. Features include a firewall, a VPN , and tools to speed up your PC. If you’d like more features for free, Avast One Essential may also be worth looking into.
Kaspersky Security Cloud Kaspersky.com Kaspersky’s Security Cloud is simply a version of its security software that syncs through the cloud across all your devices so you can manage everything at once, from smartphones to desktop computers. The cloud also makes it easier to keep all the security software updated, and push any alerts to your device so you always know what’s going on. And while it’s a little tricky to find, Kaspersky does offer a free version of the software.
The free version is very limited, however. You’ll get protection from malware and antivirus threats. You’ll also get (restricted) access to features such as a VPN and password storage for a maximum of 15 passwords in “a secure online vault.” Avira Free Antivirus Image used with permission by copyright holder Avira’s streamlined free antivirus software is one of the best options for getting exactly the security features you want without any unnecessary extras or annoying bloat. Download options are available for Windows, Mac, Android, and iOS — and Mac/iOS compatibility is particularly good, making this a strong choice for Apple users.
The free version of Avira’s antivirus program comes with virus scans and blocking, infected file repairs, real-time updates, a potentially unwanted application (PUA) shield, an ad blocker, and a tracking blocker.
Avira also has Avira Prime , which is $10 for one month, $60 for a year, or $190 for two years for 5 devices. This service has features like a password generator, encryption of your web browsing data, and other extras.
How do you know which free antivirus software is right for you? It all depends on your security needs. Some free antivirus programs only focus on detecting and removing malware , but others may offer more protection in the way of anti-phishing and ad-blocking features. If you browse the web often or download email attachments often, you may want to consider antivirus options that offer web protection and email protection. If you want to be able to monitor and protect all of your devices (mobile and PC) at once with the same program, you should pick a free antivirus software that is available on all of the platforms your devices run on.
The best antivirus for Windows 11 At this time, most antivirus software companies have announced that their products are compatible with Windows 11.
 That said, most antivirus options that are compatible with Windows 10 should also work fine on Windows 11. Make sure to install one of them if you’re trying out Microsoft’s new operating system. If all else fails, you can stick with Windows Security, which is Microsoft’s free antivirus solution built into Windows 10 and Windows 11.
Editors' Recommendations QuickBooks Free Trial: Get a month of accounting for free Microsoft Word Free Trial: Get a month of service for free The best tablets in 2023: top 11 tablets you can buy now 9 best monitors for 2023: tested and reviewed The best 17-inch laptops Business Antivirus Software Software Computing AMD and Intel have fought for supremacy for decades, duking it out in a bid to make the best processors you can buy. The competition is fierce, and that's a great thing for PC enthusiasts. In 2022, the list of the best CPUs is larger than ever and packed with options from Team Red and Team Blue.
Intel's flagship Core i9-13900K tops our list, but there are great options regardless of your budget or purpose.
Computing Even while facing downAMD's Ryzen 7000 processors, Intel has come out on top with its Raptor Lake CPUs. The best Intel processor you can buy right now is the Core i5-13600K, but in a strange change of pace, Intel has several excellent options on the market right now.
From high-end gaming CPUs to some recent 12th-generation CPUs that are under $100, Intel has a compelling option at just about every price point. The AMD versus Intel war rages on, but for fans of Team Blue, these are the best Intel CPUs you can buy today.
Computing With Apple's introduction of the latest M2 MacBook models, it's time to take another look at which is the best MacBook to buy in 2023. That's not always easy, though, as buying the newest MacBook isn't always the right decision. Apple has several tiers of performance, as well as various sizes, which can complicate the matter.
There are several MacBook models available, designated MacBook Air or MacBook Pro, with varying memory and storage configurations, as well as four kinds of processors, providing a wide selection to choose from.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
