Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Way to Hire Employees Highest Paying Jobs Best Business Laptops What is RingCentral? Best VPN Best Job Search Sites Home Computing Features Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? RingCentral launches free videoconferencing service with no time limit By Stephen Slaybaugh Close Image used with permission by copyright holder This week, cloud-based communications provider RingCentral unveiled RingCentral Video , its new videoconferencing platform. A revamp of its previous Meetings service, which was one of our picks for best videoconferencing software , this release comes at a time when most of us are using such tools more than ever before both for meeting with work colleagues and for staying in touch with friends and family. Best of all, the service, which delivers high-def video and audio, is totally free.
RingCentral Video features Image used with permission by copyright holder 24-hour meetings: Lest you think that nothing good ever comes for free, RingCentral Video is devoid of many of the limitations of its competitors’ free videoconferencing services. Zoom limits its meetings of three or more people to 40 minutes unless you pay for its service, while Google Meet and Cisco Webex limit their meetings to 60 minutes and 40 minutes, respectively. (Google has temporarily suspended its limitation until March 2021, however.) RingCentral Video meetings, on the other hand, can go all day and night (24 hours). Unless you’re hosting a virtual rave, it’s doubtful you would ever need that much time, but it’s still nice not to feel pressured by constraints.
Recording capabilities: RingCentral Video lets you record your meetings for later reference, which is only available as a paid feature on Zoom.
Team messaging: RingCentral Video adds in team messaging capabilities of platforms like Slack that so many of us use to collaborate with coworkers and that you don’t get with Zoom. This feature allows file uploads with no limitations on size or number. Plus, RingCentral Video’s messaging is equipped with a host of emoji reactions and a text formatting toolbar to add personality to your messaging. But if you need to take your messaging session to the next level, you can switch to videoconferencing with one click.
No download: RingCentral Video is entirely browser-based so there’s no file to download, and you can join a meeting with one click.
Task and calendar management: Aided by the ability to integrate your Microsoft 365 and Google Workplace calendars, RingCentral Video also allows for task and calendar management. And you can do this with just one click.
Switch devices: If you find that you need to switch from your desktop to your phone so you can take your conversation on the go, with RingCentral Video, you’ll be able to change devices during a meeting without interruption.
Share files: In RingCentral Video’s team messaging, you can drag and drop files to share them with other team members.
Assign tasks: You can use RingCentral Video’s task management to assign and check off tasks.
Meet with up to 100 people: Unlike other free videoconferencing, RingCentral Video allows you to meet with up to 100 people at a time.
Protect your meetings: Enterprise-grade security encrypts all your meetings and conversations. Plus, password-protect any meeting and control who can join.
Connect internal and external teams: RingCentral Video allows you to create messaging teams that include both internal and external teams.
Integrate other apps: RingCentral Video has the ability to connect apps like Mailchimp, Zapier, and GitHub to your team messaging.
Searchable archive: RingCentral Video lets you search your archive by keyword and filter the results by name, email, or team.
While RingCentral Video gives you a lot for free , you can also upgrade to the RingCentral Video Pro paid version that gives you even more for just $12 per month. With this premium edition, you get everything in the free version plus twice as many participants (200), 100 hours (10GB) of cloud recording per user, a single sign-on, the ability to call any phone from a meeting, and advanced analytics across video, messaging, and devices.
Seamless digital collaboration has become even more important as the COVID pandemic has affected the workforce. RingCentral Video provides a smart option for your business with features, integrations, and functions that truly bring your workforce and communication together in a simple, easily accessibly solution.
Editors' Recommendations RingCentral and Microsoft Teams are a match made in heaven How to set up your VoIP service in 5 easy steps with RingCentral Business Features Computing Lenovo is probably one of the best-known laptop makers, especially since they have an incredibly wide variety of them to choose from. That also means they have an excellent selection of gaming laptops, so you can hone in on something that fits your budget. That's especially the case with the ongoing early Black Friday deals that are seeing laptops being cut down in price across the board. That said, Lenovo's selection of gaming laptops is too wide for us to include all their active deals here, so we've selected some of our favorites for both AMD and Intel CPUs. Also, if you're not sure of where to start, you should check out our list of best Lenovo laptops for some good options.
Best Lenovo Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals (AMD) Lenovo has a wider selection of AMD gaming laptops, which is great if you want to go with something AMD-powered. Unfortunately, there aren't any good deals on Lenovo laptops with both an AMD CPU and GPU, but the selection below is wide enough to pick something that fits your needs a bit better. And, if you want something with an RTX 4090 on a budget, then the AMD version is probably the cheapest for Lenovo.
Computing Printers are complicated machines featuring a mix of plastics, metals, electronics, and components, some of which are potentially flagged as hazardous waste. In 2023, it's more important than ever to be kind to the planet, and there are several environmentally safe ways to dispose of a printer.
Even the best printers in the world can reach the end of their life after several years if ink or toner is no longer available. A well-loved printer can suffer from accumulated wear and tear or damage from a catastrophic power surge that's too expensive to repair.
Computing It's Black Friday, which means it is time to give expensive tech products and fun, but expensive, toys a second look. The right Black Friday deals are there to take these categories of products down in price. Where these categories of expensive tech and cool toys collide is the Meta Quest 2, a VR headset, and sure enough, it has a good sale going on over at Amazon right now. Normally $300, its price has dropped by $51 down to just $249, one of the best VR headset Black Friday deals we've seen. The really good news? This deal is here now, so you don't have to wait to buy it like you will with the rest of your post Thanksgiving shopping. In fact, if you tap the button below and buy now, and with a little shipping luck, you might have it by Thanksgiving to play with your family.
Why you should buy the Meta Quest 2 The Meta Quest 2, which dominated Steam last year, is a VR headset that gives a full 360 field of view, allows you to experience 3D positional audio, and has over 500 compatible titles between gaming, fitness, and other experiences. If you're a Twitch viewer, you may recognize it from streamers playing Meta Quest 2 games like Beat Saber or the somewhat ironically humorous Among Us VR. It refreshes at 120Hz and gives each eye a view of 1832 x 1920p.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
