Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Way to Hire Employees Highest Paying Jobs Best Business Laptops What is RingCentral? Best VPN Best Job Search Sites Home Computing News Zoom video chat rival Google Meet releases free version By Trevor Mogg Close Google says it has now completed the rollout of the free version of its videoconferencing tool.
Previously available only to its G Suite enterprise customers, the move to make Google Meet more widely available is an attempt by the company to capitalize on the recent boom in videoconferencing brought about by the coronavirus outbreak. With the pandemic causing untold disruption around the world, video meetings have really taken off, with workers, as well as friends and family, using the technology to connect with one another from the comfort of their own homes.
Calls on the free version of Google Meet allow you to chat for as long as you like, though after September 30 you’ll be limited to 60 minutes per session unless you upgrade.
While rival service Zoom has been getting most of the publicity — not always for the right reasons — there are in fact a slew of competing videoconferencing platforms out there. However, Google’s huge setup and solid brand recognition has allowed it to quickly adapt Meet for a wider audience and push it into the spotlight in a bid to give Zoom a run for its money.
Google’s ChatGPT rival just launched in search. Here’s how to try it Google’s ChatGPT rival is an ethical mess, say Google’s own workers Check your inbox — Google may have invited you to use Bard, its ChatGPT rival In a message posted online this week, Google executive Javier Soltero said that in April, Meet was “adding roughly three million new users every day.” Some of those are likely to have been Zoom users concerned about the tool’s well-publicized security and privacy issues, though it should be pointed out that the company behind Zoom has been working hard to improve its service.
To get started with Meet, all you need is a Google Account, which, if you don’t already have one, can be set up pretty quickly with any existing email address.
 If you have a Gmail address, then in the coming days you’ll be able to use Meet directly within the interface of Google’s web-based email service. For tips on how to get started with Meet, check out Digital Trends’ handy guide.
Soltero said that in response to the recently elevated importance of video meetings, Google developers have been working to fast-track commonly requested features, which are now being rolled out to everyone using the software.
“Anyone can use Meet’s simple scheduling and screen sharing, real-time captions, and layouts that adapt to your preference, including an expanded tiled view — all built on Google’s secure, reliable global infrastructure,” Soltero said, adding, “Speaking from my own experience, the new features in Meet are already making our team (and my family) meetings better. We love how tiled view makes us feel more connected — and the occasional surprise visits from kids and family pets!” Google Meet and Zoom are two videoconferencing services that for most people will get the job done, though there are a number of other services worth considering , too.
Editors' Recommendations Blackmagic releases free pro-level app for shooting video on iPhone Google Bard just took a big step toward being a proper ChatGPT rival You can now try out Google’s Bard, the rival to ChatGPT Forget VR. Airglass made me actually enjoy video calls Google is holding off on releasing its ChatGPT rival until it reaches a ‘high bar for safety’ Business News Tech News Computing Google has announced support for embedded interoperability on Google Meet and Zoom Room devices at no extra cost, coming later this year.
Soon Google Meets devices will be able to join Zoom meetings, and Zoom Rooms will be able to join Google Meet meetings. It will be as easy to use as clicking on a calendar item or by inserting a meeting code. At launch, administrators will be able to activate this interoperability for their registered devices at no extra cost, while allowing trusted devices to easily join cross-platform calls.
Computing If you've ever tried Google Meet's visual effects, you already know that moving around can create glitches and gaps at the edges where the foreground object (you) meets the stylized background. The computer's confusion about which part of a webcam image belongs in the front and which goes in the back is getting a huge upgrade with the latest Google Meet update.
The issue with the old version is that many computers lack the processing power to extract depth information from a webcam. That means Google Meet might not find the edges well enough to begin with, and it is often slow to update whenever you move. It's not as noticeable when using a blur effect but can spoil the experience when you apply a stylized background. Nothing wrecks a peaceful nature background more than a pixelated hand with pieces missing when you wave.
Computing Google has begun the next phase of merging its Duo and Meet video chat apps into one service.
The brand sent out an update on Wednesday, which will change the Google Duo icon to Google Meet. The update is largely aesthetic but is set to roll out for Android and iOS devices over the coming weeks. You can expect to receive a home screen notification explaining how Google Duo has been merged into Google Meet.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
