Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Record a Microsoft Teams Meeting Leave a Team on Microsoft Teams Keep Microsoft Teams Status Active Join a Microsoft Teams Meeting Create a Team in Microsoft Teams Home Computing Guides How to create a new team in Microsoft Teams By Tyler Lacoma Close Microsoft Teams is one of the most popular communication applications for businesses, thanks to its useful integration with Office 365 and other compatible apps, along with the ability to create many different kinds of communication structures. One of the primary options is teams themselves — divisions of people focused on the same subject or task within a greater group — so knowing how to create a new team in Microsoft Teams is incredibly important to maximizing your organization's productivity.
How to create a new team in Microsoft Teams Additional tips about making a Team in Microsoft Teams Here’s how to quickly make one and your options for setting them up.
Difficulty Duration What You Need Microsoft Teams account with the right permissions How to create a new team in Microsoft Teams The web, desktop, and mobile apps for Microsoft Teams are all quite similar, so these steps should work with each, with only minor interface differences.
Step 1: Get the right permissions. Creating teams is typically a manager-level ability, although security restrictions for Teams will vary based on your organization. If necessary, talk to your IT admin about getting the necessary permission to create a new team.
Step 2: Log into Microsoft Teams. In the upper right corner, check that you are in the right group for creating your new team.
Common Microsoft Teams problems and how to fix them Microsoft Surface Pro, Surface Laptop prices slashed ahead of new launches Microsoft Copilot vs. Google Duet: battle of the next-gen AI smart assistants Step 3: In the left-side menu, select the Teams icon to view current Teams. In mobile, this menu is on the bottom of the screen.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 4: Select the blue button at the bottom of the Teams list that says Join or create a team.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 5: This will open a new menu with available team “cards” to choose from. Begin by selecting the option to Create team.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 6: You now have a number of options about how to create your team. For example, you could choose to Select from a template , like “Manage a Project” or “Onboard Employees.” This will automatically create a select of labeled channels in the team and connected apps that this template may find useful. It can save time, but you may also end up with unnecessary parts of the team that no one will use. You will be able to customize the channels and integrated apps later, but this will take some extra work.
You could also choose From a group or team.
 This option works best if you want to create a separate team with a group of people you already work with, copying them over to a new version of the team you can then customize as you want. You will get a checklist of the specific team features like channels and apps that you want to copy over or leave behind.
Or, you can choose From scratch to build a team from the ground up. If this is your first time creating a team, this is probably the best option for now. You can always return and create a different kind of team once you have the basics down.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 7: Choose if the team will be Public or Private.
 Public teams allow anyone in the organization to freely join them without needing permission, while private teams are restricted.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 8: Now, you will have several options to customize your team. First, you can choose the name of the team and the description. Choose something clear that indicates the purpose of the team and who it is for.
Then, you will be able to Customize channels in your team. Channels are individual discussions that can relate to specific topics. There’s a default General channel, but other channels can be added too, like Announcements, Planning, Marketing, etc. Rename the channels as you need to give your team the spaces they need for discussion.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 9: Select Create to complete your team.
Step 10: You are the owner of your team, and that gives you a variety of management options. You can invite people to the team yourself and create channels as you see fit to organize the team. If you hover over your team name and select More options , you will see a menu with a wide variety of settings tools, including the ability to change any of the decisions you made above.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Additional tips about making a Team in Microsoft Teams You can also change additional privacy settings for the team, such as deciding to make it invisible to searches or view from outside of the team or requiring a code to join the team.
Options to create a Team may vary depending on how your organization uses Microsoft Teams. For example, if your organization is using an education version of Microsoft 365, you may see different options to select school-oriented team types, like Class, Staff, or Professional Learning Community.
If you do want to make your team searchable within a large organization, you should use the options menu to add some tags to it that accurately describe the team and what it’s about.
Team owners also have the ability to create private channels within the team that can only be accessed or seen by certain members. You can use this feature to create additional layers of privacy as necessary.
Your team options will give you the ability to delete the team when it is no longer needed.
Editors' Recommendations Microsoft Word Free Trial: Get a month of service for free This is the best Microsoft Office Prime Day deal we’ve found Huge leak reveals Microsoft’s new laptops coming next week Hackers are sending malware through seemingly innocent Microsoft Teams messages How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps Business Business Communication Software How-To Guides Microsoft Microsoft Teams Software Computing The Windows 11 Copilot AI is Microsoft's big push to bring modern artificial intelligence to its flagship operating system — and it goes far beyond the early integrations of ChatGPT through Bing Chat. This isn't your granddad's Clippy, it's a whole new way of augmenting Windows with truly smart functions.
Here's how to use the Microsoft Copilot AI in Windows 11 to make your life easier and more efficient.
Computing Whether you want to capture friends and relatives making funny faces on Skype or need accessible photos of online resources or programs, screenshots benefit users in many ways. With a simple press of a keyboard’s print screen key, you essentially have the ability to capture anything and everything occurring on your desktop at any time.
Computing According to a recent article posted by Microsoft Travel on microsoft.com, attractions worth checking out on a visit to the Canadian capital of Ottawa include the National War Memorial, Parliament Hill, Fairmont Château Laurier, Ottawa Food Bank ... hang on, Ottawa Food Bank? Spotted in recent days by Canada-based tech writer Paris Marx, the article puts Ottawa Food Bank at number 3 in a list of 15 must-see places in the city. And as if that wasn't bad enough, the accompanying description even suggests visiting it “on an empty stomach.” Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
