Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Way to Hire Employees Highest Paying Jobs Best Business Laptops What is RingCentral? Best VPN Best Job Search Sites Home Computing Guides How to increase your internet speed By Tyler Lacoma Close There is nothing more frustrating than your internet moving along at a snail’s pace. Web pages take forever to load, and games and streaming services experience lag. With Zoom meetings becoming a more regular occurrence, any significant slowdown in your internet makes working at home much more difficult, too.
Reset your router Manage your Wi-Fi channels Manage the devices on your network Using Ethernet connections 'Flush' your DNS Switch to a faster browser Add an extension to manage your cache Consider using a VPN If necessary, upgrade your Wi-Fi system or bandwidth Difficulty Duration What You Need Router Ethernet DNS Wi-Fi Fortunately, you don’t have to suffer through a slow internet speed anymore, especially with so many tips and tricks available to help improve your Wi-Fi speed. Before you reach for your phone to upgrade your service, give these tips a try.
Amazon Reset your router Resetting your router has a lot of advantages for the average home network. It can help dispel hacking attempts, reset the router’s limited memory to help speed things up, and even apply important updates that your router may have been waiting on.
The key is to reboot your router properly. You don’t want to do a factory reset, which will erase all your settings and force you to start from scratch.
Step 1: Avoid the pinholes and on-router reset buttons; instead, simply unplug your router from all connected devices and then from its power source, fully shutting it down.
Step 2: Wait for about a minute for everything to fully turn off.
Wi-Fi not working? How to fix the most common problems Is your PC acting up? Here’s how to fix it AI can now steal your passwords with almost 100% accuracy — here’s how Step 3: Plug your router back into your power source, modem, and anything else you need.
We also have a full guide on what to know about router resetting for more info.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Manage your Wi-Fi channels Most routers these days are dual-band, which means they offer connections over both the 2.5Ghz frequency and the 5GHz frequency. Some routers are also tri-band, which just means there’s an additional 5GHz band to spread out connections even more.
These different channels exist so that you can apportion device connections across the spectrum and lower the demands for a single channel. This can help speed up your connections, especially if the 2.5GHz band is getting a little crowded.
As a general rule, the 5Ghz band is shorter range but a bit faster, more suitable for devices that are close to the router. The 2.5GHz band is longer range but a little slower, a better choice for devices in other rooms or mobile devices that move around a lot.
Some routers come with automatic allocation features that can assign devices to different channels based on connection needs and switch them to new channels as circumstances change. That’s great, but most routers still don’t have that service, so do this: Step 1: Go into your router settings and make sure networks are set up for all the bands on your router.
Step 2: Connect each device individually to the channel that’s best for them. It’s a little work, but it really can make a difference for your speeds.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Manage the devices on your network The average home router can handle around 250 connected devices in theory — in practice, as more devices pile up, bandwidth struggles to cover network needs and slowdowns happen. At the modern home or office where everyone has multiple mobile devices and smart devices are common, routers can get overstretched and start creating speed problems.
If a lot of new devices have been connected to your Wi-Fi and you are noticing speed problems, you may want to start limiting connected devices. For newer routers, open up your router app and look for the list of connected devices. For older routers, enter your IP address in the browser and search to find your administrator settings, where you should look for a section that says Manage Devices, Restrict Access , or something similar. While settings can vary, you should look for several important options here: Step 1: Find unnecessary devices. If devices don’t need to be on your network or it looks like someone is hijacking your Wi-Fi , you can kick these devices off. You can also look for an option to ban their MAC addresses, and make sure you change your Wi-Fi password when finished. It’s not a perfect solution, but it can help remove unknown devices quickly.
Step 2: Throttle bandwidth. Some routers allow you to choose specific connections to throttle, or slow down their speeds. This way, you can give less bandwidth to devices only needed for simple tasks, and more bandwidth to devices used for gaming and streaming, which cuts down on speed problems.
Step 3: Restrict usage. Routers may also have the ability to restrict hours of use for certain devices, which is a good way to make sure devices don’t hog too much bandwidth during key hours of the day. It’s also a reliable way to manage kids’ online connections for busy families.
Step 4: Voice commands. We’re seeing more and more devices with voice command compatibility, especially for Alexa.
 Saying, “ Alexa , disconnect this device” or “Alexa, turn off Timmy’s Wi-Fi” can be useful commands.
Alexa can also help you quickly move between router modes (chatting, gaming, standard, etc.) to prioritize certain activities.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Using Ethernet connections Thus far, we are assuming that you have to use Wi-Fi connections around your home. But if your computer (or other device) is close enough to the router, then you should consider using a wired Ethernet connection to the ports on your router. This is a very reliable way of increasing speeds, since a wired connection is free of many of the issues that can cause Wi-Fi slowdowns.
Image used with permission by copyright holder 'Flush' your DNS A DNS (domain name system) record keeps track of all the website addresses you visit to better improve future visits. However, DNS records rely on you and the website both staying on their respective servers. If servers change over time — which happens to many websites — the DNS will actually hurt your connection speed because it doesn’t recognize the new server. That’s why it can be a good idea to, as they say, flush your DNS from time to time.
This process doesn’t take long with the right steps.
Step 1: On Windows 10, simply search for Command prompt in the search box, and open the app.
Step 2: Make sure you are running as administrator! Then type the command line “ipconfig/flushdns” Step 3: Hit enter. Windows will let you know the DNS has been cleared.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Switch to a faster browser Does your slowdown primarily happen when you use your browser or open a lot of new tabs? Think about switching to a more minimalistic browser that only loads what is necessary. Browsers like Brave for Mac and Opera excel at this, especially if you are willing to tinker with settings. If you haven’t already tried it, Google Chrome is also known for being one of the fastest major browser options.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Add an extension to manage your cache Your browser cache stores copies of website content to make it easier to reload sites. As internet users learn, when a cache gets too full it can slow down online performance (cookies, history, and similar saved data can also have an impact). Clearing your cache manually can be a pain, which is why it tends to build up over time. We suggest an easier path: Download a Clear Cache extension that will help you customize your clearing actions and immediately clear with a simple button on your browser taskbar.
Consider using a VPN If you search whether a VPN (virtual private network) can increase your internet speeds, you’ll probably find a lot of conflicting information. Here’s the deal: Some ISPs (internet service providers) will throttle bandwidth based on certain activities, such as hitting a soft data cap or streaming services like Netflix and YouTube. If you have evidence that your ISP is throttling bandwidth like this , a VPN can help by hiding your activity so the ISP doesn’t have the data it needs to make throttling decisions.
But in many cases a VPN can actually slow your internet speeds down with its combination of encryption and server-hopping. Only try this as a solution if you are sure your ISP is being shady. Fortunately, many VPNs are free to download and enable for a trial period if you want to test it out.
Image used with permission by copyright holder If necessary, upgrade your Wi-Fi system or bandwidth Many changes are hitting the router market now. Among them are expanded MU-MIMO features for better individual connections. You can also find Wi-Fi 6-compatible devices and more.
 These new features are great for improving speed and performance. The catch is that if your router is a couple of years old, you probably have to buy a new version to get these upgrades. You also need to make sure your new mobile devices are compatible with current tech.
You can find your optimal router setup by upgrading. You will improve signal strength and internet speed by using mesh routers, which entails placing various router points throughout your residence.
Improving your internet package will also get you increased bandwidth. You’ll indeed be paying more, but you’ll get the upside of an automatic upgrade, without the inconvenient test period. Ask your provider about any relevant sales and specials — just remember to check the details before agreeing. Remember, too, that you might not achieve the same speeds as advertised. You can verify the quality of your upgrade by executing an internet speed test after installment.
Following the coronavirus, several internet companies are getting rid of data cap restrictions. Most internet providers are in a fervent race to satisfy growing demands for faster internet speeds, so optimization in internet services should compensate for higher prices your provider may now charge you. You should make a conscious effort to inquire whether increased prices get you increased speed.
Editors' Recommendations How to find your computer specs on Windows 11 I tried a gadget that could totally change how you interact with your PC Best wireless router deals: Casual Wi-Fi to lag-free gaming, all for less How to keep your Microsoft Teams status active How to transfer files from Android to your PC Business Mobile How-To Guides Work From Home Computing Learning how to build a PC from scratch is easier than you might think. The process mostly involves screwing in the right screws and connecting the right cables, so as long as you're careful with your components and take the proper safety precautions, even beginners can make a PC that rivals the best desktop computers.
Computing While the internet has dramatically expanded the ability to share knowledge, it has also made issues of privacy more complicated. Many people are justifiably worried about their personal information being stolen or viewed, including bank records, credit card info, and browser or login history.
If you're looking for more privacy while browsing, Tor is a good way to do that, as it is software that allows users to browse the web anonymously. It should be noted that Tor can be used to access illegal content on the dark web, and Digital Trends does not condone or encourage this behavior.
Why does Tor exist? In this climate of data gathering and privacy concerns, the Tor browser has become the subject of discussion and notoriety. Like many underground phenomena on the internet, it is poorly understood and shrouded in the sort of technological mysticism that people often ascribe to things like hacking or Bitcoin.
Computing You toggled the privacy sliders off in Windows 11, you don't want to share your data with Microsoft, and that's the end of it, right? It turns out Windows 11 is collecting a lot of your data regardless, even on a brand-new PC.
Neowin recently reported on a YouTube video by The PC Security Channel where they showed how a brand new Windows 11 laptop versus a fresh Window XP install behaved in terms of what data, if any, was being sent online.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
