Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Record a Microsoft Teams Meeting Leave a Team on Microsoft Teams Keep Microsoft Teams Status Active Join a Microsoft Teams Meeting Create a Team in Microsoft Teams Home Computing Guides How to leave a team on Microsoft Teams By Tyler Lacoma Close Microsoft’s popular business collaboration platform is a common choice for companies, volunteer projects, and more — especially if you’re already using Office 365 features. The ability to quickly join a group; find the right teams; and start discussion channels, chats, or video is a bonus for all users.
How to leave a Microsoft Team Leaving a Microsoft team on mobile Important tips on leaving a Microsoft Team Difficulty Duration What You Need Microsoft Teams app or web app But sometimes, your time with a particular team is over. Maybe it was a temporary project, maybe you’re moving on to other things, or maybe teams are being switched around to better reflect an organization’s structure. When this happens, it’s important to know how to quicly leave a team that you’re working on. Here’s how to do it.
How to leave a Microsoft Team Before you begin, it’s a good idea to make sure you are supposed to leave a team or have permission from a team owner to do so. Leaving and joining teams without letting others know can cause confusion.
Step 1: Log into Microsoft Teams and select the Teams icon on the left-side menu. Navigate to the team that you want to leave.
Step 2: To the right side of the team name, you’ll see three-dot ellipses icon. Select it to open up the Teams menu. Here, you’ll see a variety of options, including hiding the team (if you don’t want to leave it quite yet) and managing the team if you are the team owner. Don’t confuse this with the dropdown menus for team channels, which are subheadings within the team itself and do not include the option to leave.
Image used with permission by copyright holder How to insert a checkbox in Word Microsoft Surface Pro 7+ with Type Cover price slashed by $330 How to use a blue light filter on your PC or Mac Step 3: Select Leave the Team.
 Confirm that you want to leave. The team will typically disappear from your Teams menu with no further steps.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 4: The big exception to this process is leaving an organization entirely, or a special org-wide team that your admin may have created. You cannot leave these on your own. You will have to contact your admin and ask them to remove you if it has not already been done.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Leaving a Microsoft team on mobile Leaving a Microsoft team works a bit differently on mobile devices, so keep this mind. If you are on an iOS device like an iPhone, the menu will be very similar, except the Teams list will be on the bottom instead of the side. Previous versions of iOS Teams didn’t allow you to leave a team, but this has since been updated, so the process should be the same.
It’s also similar for Teams on an Android device, where you’ll look for the More options dots beside a team name to choose to Leave the team.
Important tips on leaving a Microsoft Team When you leave a team for good, you will no longer receive any notifications associated with that team. That includes any updates that the team may sound out or tag in channels. However, your chat options in Teams should still work, so as long as a person is part of your Teams organization, you should still be able to contact them one-on-one. However, team-wide video meetings probably won’t be available to you anymore.
Leaving a team does not erase any messages or content that you have sent in that team. All your old messages will still be available for team members to see.
Even when you leave a team, you are still part of the organization that created the team. If you want to leave the organization as well, you can visit your My Groups section in the Apps tab and select your profile to choose to leave organization. This isn’t available in every Teams setup, so if you don’t see this option, contact your admin to learn more.
In some cases, you won’t be able to leave a non org-wide team. For example, students using the education version of Microsoft Teams won’t be able to leave a team on their own. If you are the last person on a team and have automatically been appointed as a team owner or similar responsibility, you may not be able to leave a team until you fully delete it.
If you are switching to a new team as part of restructuring, make sure that you have necessary information to join or a direct invite before you quit your old team. Not all teams are public, and many require invites or codes to join.
Does your new team care about your Microsoft Teams status or use it as a sign of productivity? You may also be interested in our guide on how make sure your status remains active in Microsoft Teams.
Editors' Recommendations Microsoft Black Friday deals: Save on Surface, Office, Xbox, and more How to calibrate your monitor to make it better for free Microsoft Word Free Trial: Get a month of service for free Microsoft Surface Laptop 5 is down to its cheapest ever price How to find your computer specs on Windows 11 Business Business Communication Software How-To Guides Microsoft Microsoft Teams Computing Getting Photoshop for free isn't as easy as it once was, but there are still a couple of techniques worth trying if you need to use Photoshop and don't have the funds for a purchase or subscription. There are also some great free alternatives worth considering if you can get away with editing photos or pictures in another application.
Here's how to get Photoshop for free, and some good alternatives.
Computing Email is a powerful tool in the modern world. It’s used not only for professional correspondence but also for a variety of other purposes, including messages from your school or university, keeping in touch with distant friends or family, sending digital files, or just generally keeping track of your online accounts and purchases. But the ease of sending email, and the fact that many people have more than one email address, means your inbox(es) can quickly fill with spam.
While you can unsubscribe from mailing lists through Google, you might still receive unwanted emails. Gmail users who want to shut out this noise can do so with just a few clicks. Here’s how to block an email address in Gmail.
Computing Just because your co-worker sent you a PDF file instead of the Excel document you wanted doesn't mean you're actually stuck with it. In this guide, we'll teach you how to convert a PDF into an Excel document using a few quick and easy steps. We'll even teach you a few different ways to do it.
If you don't want to go to the trouble of converting the PDF (whether password-protected or not) and would rather just edit it as is, we have a guide to the best PDF editors, too.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
