Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Way to Hire Employees Highest Paying Jobs Best Business Laptops What is RingCentral? Best VPN Best Job Search Sites Home Computing Guides How to make a Slack channel private By Tyler Lacoma Close Slack is known for its ability to swiftly create channels for all kinds of work decisions, from team brainstorming to coordinating client meetings. But sometimes, Slack channels don’t need to be public – and users may want to hold private conversations that aren’t as easy for others to see. That could be a place to discuss sensitive business information or even air any problems you have with Slack itself.
Convert a channel to private in Slack How to make a new Slack channel private Extra tips for making a Slack channel private Difficulty Duration What You Need Slack account with the correct permissions For times like these, it’s best to make a channel private. If you have the right permissions in a Slack workspace, you can convert a channel to a private mode at any time. Here’s how to do it and what to know about making the change.
Convert a channel to private in Slack Before you begin, note that making a channel private is a permanent step. It will always be private afterward, with no way to change it back to public. Make sure the channel will never again need to be public before you begin.
Step 1: Make sure you have the right permissions. Not every Slack user can implement a privacy setting. By default, only owners and admins can convert channels like this. Owners also have the option to limit private channels even more if they choose. If necessary, contact the Workspace Owner or Org Owner for more information.
Step 2: Open Slack and navigate to the channel that you want to convert. Look at the very top of the channel, above the discussion thread, and you’ll see the current name of the channel. Select the Arrow beside this name to open up the channel menu.
Image used with permission by copyright holder How your boss can spy on you with Slack, Zoom, and Teams How to create a poll in Slack ChatGPT just launched on Slack — here’s how to use it Step 3: In the Channel menu, select the Settings tab.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 4: Scroll until you reach the option to Change to a private channel.
 Select it. Confirm that you want to convert the channel, and it will immediately be made private. Everyone currently in the channel will receive a message saying that the channel has been made private. Now only members can see the channel, and an existing member has to invite new members for them to join.
Step 5: If you don’t want to make the channel permanently private, you still have options for controlling some kinds of access. Under Posting permissions , you can select Edit and choose who can post in the channel, and you can also decide if channel-wide chat options are enabled or not. That gives you a bit of extra customization if you’d like to keep the channel public but want to stop certain practices.
Image used with permission by copyright holder How to make a new Slack channel private If you are creating a new channel, you can set it to private right away. When choosing the channel name, toggle the option to Make private.
 Then you can invite members one at a time to the channel. This may work better for some kinds of discussions.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Extra tips for making a Slack channel private Every Slack workspace has a primary General channel that’s used for public discussions. This channel cannot be converted to a private channel. Even with the right permissions, you won’t see the private option in the channel settings.
Converting channels to private can get a little confusing if there are people from multiple organizations on the same channel. Only members of the organization where the owner/admin set the channel to private will see it (or not see it) as private. Members of other organizations will continue to see it as public. That may mean coordinating a plan so all organizations make a channel private at once.
Making a channel private does not automatically make any files or documents posted there private. However, messages and files posted after a channel is private can only be searched by other members of that specific channel, not the entire workspace.
Want to learn more about how to customize Slack just the way you want it? Take a look at our guide to tips and tricks for Slack that will help you create discussions faster, share a wide variety of content, and much more.
Editors' Recommendations How to calibrate your monitor to make it better for free How to change the Wi-Fi channel on a router How to make a graph in Excel The most common Slack issues and how to fix them How to create a calendar in Google Sheets Business Business Communication Software How-To Guides Computing LibreOffice remains one of the most popular Microsoft Office alternatives, an incredibly versatile text editor that’s free to download, and allows you to set it up exactly how you want. You can easily import files from other text editors, customize the appearance of every tool, and use a variety of macros. And, if you want to, you can even learn how to enable dark mode for a writing and editing experience that's far easier on the eyes.
Here’s exactly where to go and what to do to switch to dark mode and give your eyes a break.
Computing When people leave your organization, you likely have to remove their access to various company applications. You might deactivate their intranet login, delete their business email address, and remove them from your Slack workspace.
Not every Slack member has the ability to deactivate a user. Let’s walk through how to remove someone from Slack and who's best placed to do so.
Computing GIFs are entertaining moving pictures that you might want to share in public and private channels or direct messages in Slack. Whether you want to say “good morning,” “great job,” or “Happy birthday,” a GIF gives you a fun way to do it.
You may have a GIF you made that you want to share or simply want to search for one directly in Slack. Either way, we’ll show you how to add GIFs to Slack.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
