Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Record a Microsoft Teams Meeting Leave a Team on Microsoft Teams Keep Microsoft Teams Status Active Join a Microsoft Teams Meeting Create a Team in Microsoft Teams Home Computing Guides How to record a Microsoft Teams meeting By Tyler Lacoma Close Knowing how to record a Microsoft Teams meeting can save you so much time that's often spent asking for people to repeat instructions or remind you of what they said. Organizations may also want to record troubleshooting meetings for later analysis, compliance requirements, or to recall significant decisions that were made. Microsoft Teams understands this and has made the recording process simple to use – if it’s set up properly.
How to record a meeting in Microsoft Teams Playing a recorded meeting Recording Meetings extras Difficulty Duration What You Need PC, laptop, tablet, or smartphone with Teams access Let’s go over what you need to record a meeting in Teams, how to find recordings when the meeting is done, and everything else you should know about the process.
How to record a meeting in Microsoft Teams Step 1: Make sure you have the right permissions. There are a number of permissions needed to start and stop a recording in a meeting. First, the user will need a subscription like Office 365 Enterprise, Business Premium, or Business Essentials.
If you're working as part of an organization, your IT administrator may need to enable recordings for the organization. Some organizations default to disabling recordings except in certain situations. If you're working independently, then it should be enabled by default.
Only certain users can record meetings when they join. That includes both meeting organizers and those who have part of the organizer’s organization on Microsoft Teams.
 Those who are part of different organizations and guests will not be able to record.
Step 2: Log into Microsoft Teams and join a meeting. Arrange for one person to start and stop the recording if necessary – you cannot make multiple recordings of a meeting at the same time.
Common Microsoft Teams problems and how to fix them Microsoft Copilot vs. Google Duet: battle of the next-gen AI smart assistants How to use Microsoft Copilot in Teams, Powerpoint, Excel, and more Step 3: In the meeting, look at the menu at the top of the window, and select the More actions option (the three-dot ellipses icon).
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 4: Select Start recording in the drop-down menu. Some organizations have a recording policy that you will now need to accept before the recording can start, although this isn’t common. All those who have joined the meeting will receive a notification that the meeting is now being recorded.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 5: Turning on recording will also turn on transcriptions, unless transcriptions have specifically been blocked by an administrator. Transcriptions can be viewed in real time and are saved alongside the video when the recording ends. Transcriptions are important if the recording is being made for compliance or legal reasons, among other uses. Live transcriptions can be stopped at any time in the More actions menu.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 6: When it’s time to stop recording, go to the More actions menu again, and select Stop recording.
 The recording will now be processed, which can take a little time, so it may not be immediately available to view.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Playing a recorded meeting When Microsoft Teams records a meeting, it is saved to SharePoint. If it was not a channel meeting, it is saved to OneDrive. Visit these locations to find the file of the meeting. A link to the recording will also appear on the channel or chat where the meeting took place, and it will be available in the Files tab of the channel, too.
You can share the file either directly with someone else on Teams or copy it and paste it into a variety of other platforms, depending on what’s easiest.
Important note : Microsoft Teams recordings often have a built-in expiration date, after which the meeting will not be available (plus a grace period for the owner of the record). This can be disabled by IT. The expiration date will show up in Teams along with the link to the meeting, as well as in the Details section of Show actions in the recording file. Those recording the meeting can typically customize the expiration date. It’s important to make sure the video is shared or used before the expiration date. If the recording was made for compliance purposes, expiration dates should be disabled or the files should be saved permanently in another way.
Recording Meetings extras There are some other considerations to make when recording a meeting in Teams: Recordings will automatically stop when everyone has left the meeting. However, recording will not stop if the person who began it leaves – that means someone else may need to stop it manually at the right time.
Sometimes regional rules can impact recording settings. For example, local regulations may require that everyone give their permission to be recorded before beginning.
Guests and external attendees will not be able to view the recording unless someone shares it directly with them.
The video of the meeting can only show up to four video streams at once. You cannot switch to other streams when viewing a recording.
Compliance requirements may overrule some of the settings that we’ve discussed above.
If you're looking to set up a meeting with some colleagues, consider making a new team first.
Editors' Recommendations How to insert a checkbox in Word Here is how you can uninstall Windows 11 Hackers are sending malware through seemingly innocent Microsoft Teams messages How to measure your PC’s power use, and why it matters How to take a screenshot using a Microsoft Surface Business Business Communication Software How-To Guides Microsoft Microsoft Teams Computing We’ve all been there. We’re so focused on working on a Word document that we may forget to save it and then exit without thinking — not to mention system errors or Microsoft Word itself crashing. Conveniently, Microsoft provides a useful feature for the program that can recover everything you might have lost.
Here’s how to recover unsaved Word documents.
Computing Implementing a drop-down list in Excel is a quick and efficient way to choose predefined data. In the process, you’re able to save time compared to manually entering such data into a given spreadsheet. Drop-down lists are perfect for several purposes, such as inputting information into a form.
Here's how to create a drop-down list in Microsoft Excel.
Computing Slack and Teams are both super useful: They enable quick communication around the office, allow for remote work and work-from-home situations, and let employees easily share a variety of content. The downside to that is that bosses can also use them to keep an eye on what you're doing and how active you are during your workday.
How bad can this boss monitoring get? Let’s take a look at what bosses can view on these apps and what you can keep private.
Slack Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
