Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Way to Hire Employees Highest Paying Jobs Best Business Laptops What is RingCentral? Best VPN Best Job Search Sites Home Computing Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? How your boss can spy on you with Slack, Zoom, and Teams By Tyler Lacoma Close Slack and Teams are both super useful: They enable quick communication around the office, allow for remote work and work-from-home situations, and let employees easily share a variety of content. The downside to that is that bosses can also use them to keep an eye on what you’re doing and how active you are during your workday.
Slack Zoom Teams Google Workspace Additional bossware Is this legal? What can I do about this? How bad can this boss monitoring get? Let’s take a look at what bosses can view on these apps and what you can keep private.
Slack Image used with permission by copyright holder Apps like Slack, Teams, and other common business collaboration platforms are structured via admin permissions. In other words, with the right permissions, your boss can have a large amount of control over the platform and what’s happening on it. And if a manager goes to IT — well, they can ask to see just about anything that happens on the app.
Slack vs. Microsoft Teams Microsoft’s new stand-alone Teams Essentials takes on Slack for smaller groups How to test your webcam to make sure it’s working Slack can export data on communication for companies upon request for low-tier plans, and higher-tier plans can give company management the ability to directly access information. Supervisors with permissions can see things like: Any messages that have been sent on the platform in any way, including the ability to search for a particular time frame or certain words ( private or public channels don’t matter in this case).
Any employee’s current status on the platform.
General data about how employees are using the platform, what sort of files are being shared, and so on.
Slack doesn’t delete messages but may limit how companies can search messages or allow employers to decide how long messages are stored. For the high-tier Enterprise Slack subscriptions, employers can look at just about anything as long as Slack has been used.
Zoom Zoom / Zoom Zoom changed a lot during the remote work boom and has generally become more conducive to employee privacy over time. The app allows you to separate business and personal accounts, for example, which is always a good idea. You can also directly upload Zoom meetings to your desktop instead of the cloud, which adds some additional privacy options for certain videos. However, the business version of Zoom does allow supervisors to do things like: Read any chat messages sent between employees via a saved transcript after the meeting.
This particular ability is part of Zoom’s Meeting Archiving feature , which has to be enabled by contacting Zoom Support. Meeting attendees should be notified that the meeting is being archived, and there is a specific notification for letting attendees know that their chat messages are being archived as well.
Review meetings uploaded to the cloud on the business account.
See when meetings take place , who is in them, and when participants join or leave meetings.
At one point, Zoom did have a feature known as “attendee attention tracking.” This feature essentially let meeting hosts know if participants are likely not focused on the meeting because the Zoom app window isn’t active. It’s worth noting that Zoom removed this feature as of April 2, 2020.
Teams Microsoft Microsoft Teams allows for a lot of employer tracking, depending on how much bosses want to see. In general, if you’re doing something on Teams, your employer can see it if they want to — there’s not much guaranteed privacy at all. With the right setup, bosses have the ability to: Track all chats, calls, and meetings in any channel.
Track employee status, including how long they are active on Teams and how long they are away.
See the apps and Teams tools employees are using (within Teams).
Google Workspace Image used with permission by copyright holder Employers have an incredible amount of spying power in Google Workspace , too, if they’re willing to pay for it. High-tier plans allow supervisors to access the “Vault,” which holds pretty much everything. That means employers can: Search content from Google Drive, Groups, Chat, Voice Chat, Classic Hangouts, and Google Meet.
Search content sent through connected accounts on Gmail (that includes drafts of emails that weren’t sent).
Track sign-in times and activity.
Track how users create and send content.
Additional bossware Image used with permission by copyright holder Business collaboration apps are only the beginning. There’s a whole additional field of software known as bossware or tattleware, which employers can demand that workers install. That includes tools like Hubstaff, InterGuard, Teramind, and TimeCamp.
Tools like these can monitor what social media apps you are using and how long you are using them, and even collect data on how you are using social media — including what you’re typing in your personal accounts. Timers and exceptions can be created, so employers have the ability to customize this monitoring software in many ways. Other apps like Hubstaff can take screenshots of your desktop, while Teramind can make real-time recordings on demand. And most bossware can at least track mouse movement and keystrokes to see how “active” you are being.
If that sounds like it could be invasive or harmful, well, the Center for Democracy and Technology appears to agree. They have warned that bossware could be hazardous to an employee’s health.
Is this legal? Generally speaking, yes. A few states require employers to provide written notice to employees that they will be monitored, but even this isn’t common yet. As long as an employer doesn’t discriminate by targeting specific employees to monitor and doesn’t monitor employees away from work hours, there’s no legal recourse at this time.
There’s not a lot of legal precedent yet, but employers have a lot of wiggle room here because employees can theoretically choose to quit rather than submit to monitoring. State regulations are traditionally very slow to catch up with trends like this.
What can I do about this? Nothing on your business collaboration apps is private. Follow that rule, and you shouldn’t have much to worry about. If your bosses are actively tracking your status and activity as a way to measure your productivity, there are some ways to push back on this, such as making sure your Microsoft Teams status is always active or using a mouse jiggler to simulate mouse activity when you’re AFK. As for particularly invasive bossware, there aren’t many choices right now except considering if the job is worth it and what your other options may be.
Editors' Recommendations You can now try out avatars and virtual spaces in Microsoft Teams One-to-one Microsoft Teams video calls can now be end-to-end encrypted How to build the ultimate Zoom setup for all your Thanksgiving video calls Your Microsoft Teams messages can now get deleted if deemed ‘inappropriate’ How to change your Zoom background Business Business Communication Software Computing Zoom has faced several privacy and security concerns as more people turn to it as a way to communicate. Businesses, including SpaceX, have begun telling employees to stop using the service, while others, including consumers, have started opting for alternatives. But what if you still need to use Zoom? We’ll teach you how to increase your privacy and security on what is quickly becoming one of the web’s most popular video conferencing services.
Update your Zoom software Zoom has begun to handle a large number of its security flaws, already jumping to enable passwords for conference entry with digital waiting rooms and stopping its mobile iOS app from sending data to Facebook in the background. Most of these changes take place in the cloud, but some require you to update your software. To update the Zoom client, follow these instructions: Mac or PC Step 1: Open the Zoom desktop app.
Computing If you just need to make minor edits to a Zoom recording, you don't need premium video editing software to do it. In fact, you can edit your Zoom recordings, for free, on YouTube. All you need is a YouTube account and your Zoom video file. Here's how to edit a Zoom recording for free using YouTube.
Step 1: After recording your video, locate the file on your computer To make editing your Zoom recording on YouTube easier, you'll need to know where the videoconferencing software saved your video file. If it's your first time recording a meeting on Zoom, then Zoom will just create a folder for you automatically on your computer to store your video. You'll most likely find your file under a folder labeled Zoom and then within a sub-folder named after the meeting you recorded the video from. This sub-folder will usually contain three files. The one you want is the file labeled "zoom_0"; it should be the only video file. This is your video recording and the one you'll upload to YouTube.
Step 2: Log in to your YouTube account and upload your video Computing If your organization uses Microsoft Teams, you’re probably using it as your go-to tool for remote work or quick team meetings. Teams can be a more complex tool than something like Zoom or Skype, and not all of its features are immediately apparent, like changing your background. That doesn't mean you can't do it, though, and we're here to show you how.
Changing the background before a meeting Starting up Teams and waiting for a meeting to begin? You can change your background right now! Here’s what to do: Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
