Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Way to Hire Employees Highest Paying Jobs Best Business Laptops What is RingCentral? Best VPN Best Job Search Sites Home Computing Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Get tax-ready with QuickBooks: Save 50% on your first 3 months By Briley Kenney Close Image used with permission by copyright holder It’s tax season — ugh. Very few people look forward to tax season, especially if they have small businesses or multiple income streams that make filing complicated and cumbersome. Thankfully there are a lot of software options that help do the work for you, and some of the best tax software out there is actually on sale during tax season. Intuit’s QuickBooks Online is one of them.
As with any kind of business venture, QuickBooks Online is definitely where you want to be. It’s comprehensive, with support for payroll, income and expenses, taxes, and much more. Perhaps you already know that and have just found it’s too expensive for your tastes? There’s a silver lining here. For a limited time, when you buy any QuickBooks Online plan, you’ll get 50% off for 3 months. That drops the price of each of the tiers considerably, but also you’ll get access to the free guided setup that will walk you through everything you need to do. It’s just in time for tax season, and to get you get all prepped to file with minimal infractions.
Now is the perfect time to get set up, run through the free guided system, and get your business accounting in order for the 2023 tax season. More importantly, you’ll get up to three months of coverage at a discounted rate, giving you plenty of time to try out everything that QuickBooks Online has to offer. The real benefits unlock when you start using the platform year-round. It’s always better to keep your accounting in order through regular maintenance, rather than doing a panic scramble at the end or beginning of the year, just to prep for tax season. A Prep for Taxes tool built into QuickBooks, for example, will help you easily calculate taxable amounts, without altering any of your reporting or records. You’ll know exactly what’s going on for the upcoming tax season, and you can review it anytime.
But QuickBooks Online goes way beyond just tax filing, deductions, and tracking. It’s an incredibly valuable tool for standard business, as well. You can run, generate, and export reports on things like profit and loss, expenses, balance sheets, donations, cash flow, and much more. You can also view sales and sales tax information, see and customize estimates for clients and customers — including converting those estimates into active invoices — assign vendor payments for contractors and organize those vendors, handle standard invoicing and payments, and much more. It’s a comprehensive business tool that simplifies a lot of accounting and finance-based tasks.
There are four tiers, beginning with Simple Start at $30 per month — right now $15 per month — up to the top tier which is Advanced at $200 per month — discounted to $100 per month currently. Each plan includes free guided setup, but the basic only offers one sales channel, while each additional tier adds more, along with extra users, more features, and better workflow options. Sign up right now, you’ll get 50% off any QuickBooks Online plan for 3 months. It’s a great deal, and honestly, the longer you wait the more difficult the process is going to be — get ready to file those taxes as early as possible! Bear in mind, there is a QuickBooks Online free trial , which you can absolutely still take advantage of, but you won’t get the discounted pricing mentioned here.
Editors' Recommendations QuickBooks Free Trial: Get a month of accounting for free Save $100 on Quickbooks Desktop Pro Plus when you download today Business Deals Accounting Software Business Computing Lenovo is probably one of the best-known laptop makers, especially since they have an incredibly wide variety of them to choose from. That also means they have an excellent selection of gaming laptops, so you can hone in on something that fits your budget. That's especially the case with the ongoing early Black Friday deals that are seeing laptops being cut down in price across the board. That said, Lenovo's selection of gaming laptops is too wide for us to include all their active deals here, so we've selected some of our favorites for both AMD and Intel CPUs. Also, if you're not sure of where to start, you should check out our list of best Lenovo laptops for some good options.
Best Lenovo Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals (AMD) Lenovo has a wider selection of AMD gaming laptops, which is great if you want to go with something AMD-powered. Unfortunately, there aren't any good deals on Lenovo laptops with both an AMD CPU and GPU, but the selection below is wide enough to pick something that fits your needs a bit better. And, if you want something with an RTX 4090 on a budget, then the AMD version is probably the cheapest for Lenovo.
Computing Printers are complicated machines featuring a mix of plastics, metals, electronics, and components, some of which are potentially flagged as hazardous waste. In 2023, it's more important than ever to be kind to the planet, and there are several environmentally safe ways to dispose of a printer.
Even the best printers in the world can reach the end of their life after several years if ink or toner is no longer available. A well-loved printer can suffer from accumulated wear and tear or damage from a catastrophic power surge that's too expensive to repair.
Computing It's Black Friday, which means it is time to give expensive tech products and fun, but expensive, toys a second look. The right Black Friday deals are there to take these categories of products down in price. Where these categories of expensive tech and cool toys collide is the Meta Quest 2, a VR headset, and sure enough, it has a good sale going on over at Amazon right now. Normally $300, its price has dropped by $51 down to just $249, one of the best VR headset Black Friday deals we've seen. The really good news? This deal is here now, so you don't have to wait to buy it like you will with the rest of your post Thanksgiving shopping. In fact, if you tap the button below and buy now, and with a little shipping luck, you might have it by Thanksgiving to play with your family.
Why you should buy the Meta Quest 2 The Meta Quest 2, which dominated Steam last year, is a VR headset that gives a full 360 field of view, allows you to experience 3D positional audio, and has over 500 compatible titles between gaming, fitness, and other experiences. If you're a Twitch viewer, you may recognize it from streamers playing Meta Quest 2 games like Beat Saber or the somewhat ironically humorous Among Us VR. It refreshes at 120Hz and gives each eye a view of 1832 x 1920p.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
