Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Record a Microsoft Teams Meeting Leave a Team on Microsoft Teams Keep Microsoft Teams Status Active Join a Microsoft Teams Meeting Create a Team in Microsoft Teams Home Computing Guides Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Slack vs. Microsoft Teams By Tyler Lacoma Close If you work on a remote team , you need an efficient way to communicate. Even in-house teams can benefit from popular workspaces such as Slack or Microsoft Teams. With both being at the top of the workspace market, you should consider which one is right for you.
Messaging abilities Pricing models Storage limits Integrated apps Web conferencing Helper bots Platform compatibility Which collaboration app wins? Depending on the features you need, you might already have a clear winner in mind. But if not, you can read our guide to help you figure out which one is best for you.
Messaging abilities Image used with permission by copyright holder Both Slack and Microsoft Teams offer fairly similar conversation threads for messages, including plain text and tagging. Both support GIFs as well, though Teams provides a more robust way to fully convey your messages. For instance, to insert a GIF into your Slack message, you must enter a command like /giphy image name.
Image used with permission by copyright holder In Teams, you’ll find a toolbar at the bottom providing access to a library of GIFs and stickers. Even more, you can click the Sticker button to create a customized meme. Slack does offer integration with Bitmoji and similar services, but it isn’t native and as easy to access as with Teams’ messaging features.
Common Microsoft Teams problems and how to fix them The best Windows apps for 2023 Microsoft Copilot vs. Google Duet: battle of the next-gen AI smart assistants As for customizing the message interface, Slack offers better variety. You can switch between light and dark themes to change the overall appearance. For a more customized feel, you can switch the sidebar colors between various preset options that complement your overall theme, or you can create a custom theme for yourself.
Meanwhile, Microsoft’s client merely swaps between three general color themes: Default (light), dark, and high-contrast. There are no specific color options despite the client’s Windows-based roots.
Pricing models Both apps offer freemium models, which is particularly attractive for smaller businesses that want to save money.
Slack offers unlimited public and private channels, file sharing, 5GB of storage, and 10 app integrations. The free plan locks your viewable and searchable message history to 10,000 entries. There’s no indication, however, that Slack’s free plan limits the number of users accessing your workspace.
Meanwhile, the Teams platform offers unlimited messages, screen sharing, and 2GB of storage per individual (chat file attachments) and 5GB shared.
Naturally, both services offer premium packages. Slack’s Pro package costs $6.67 per person per month when billed annually. It adds unlimited apps, increases the storage to 10GB per member, and enables screen sharing. You also have access to the entire message history. Want even more? Slack’s Business+ plan costs $12.50 per person per month when billed annually. It increases storage to 20GB per member, among other upgrades. There’s an Enterprise Grid plan, too, offering 1TB of storage for each member, though pricing requires a call to Slack’s sales department.
Microsoft Teams offers three premium plans. For $4 per user per month when billed annually, Microsoft Teams Essentials has a 300-user limit but increases the storage to 10GB. This plan also extends the maximum meeting duration to 30 hours, offers guest access, and “around the clock” web and phone support. The Microsoft 365 Business Basic plan maintains the 300-user maximum but adds meeting recordings and transcripts, breakout rooms, and over 250 integrated apps and services. You also get 10GB per license. This plan costs $6 per user per month when billed annually.
And lastly, Microsoft 365 Business Standard costs $12.50 per user per month when billed annually, and you still only get a maximum of 300 users. Microsoft 365 Business also offers hosting for webinars, guest access, and desktop versions of Office apps like Word, Excel, and Publisher.
Storage limits Image used with permission by copyright holder As previously mentioned, Slack’s free model includes 5GB of file storage for a single team. Paid plans increase the size to 10GB, 20GB, or 1TB per user, depending on the plan. There’s also a cap of 10,000 messages on message history for the free version, which disappears for the paid versions.
The Microsoft Teams free model offers 5GB total of shared storage “across all teams.” Switching to the paid plans increases storage to 10GB for Essentials and 1TB for the entire organization, plus 10GB per license for both Business Basic and Business Standard. There are no message history limits in Teams.
Integrated apps Slack’s free mode limits app integrations to 10. This roadblock goes away in the paid plans, and businesses can take full advantage of Slack’s more than 2,400 app integration possibilities. If you use another productivity app at work, there’s a very good chance it’s compatible with Slack.
Microsoft’s Teams platform takes a different approach. It offers integrations with other apps for only two of the pricing tiers (Business Basic and Business Standard), and it only supports around 250 apps. However, Teams does have the best integration options with Microsoft 365, given it’s designed to work perfectly with Microsoft’s suite. This may be the most important consideration for businesses that use Microsoft 365.
Web conferencing Image used with permission by copyright holder Slack’s free plan offers one-to-one voice or video calls. However, if you need additional callers in a single conference, you’ll need a paid plan, which supports up to 15 simultaneous callers.
Teams, meanwhile, has far superior web conferencing capabilities. On most tiers, not including the free version, you can host online or videoconferencing meetings with up to 300 people. The free version of Teams has a meeting capacity of 100 participants. Teams also offers the ability to record meetings in two of its premium tiers (which Slack does not) and provides screen sharing for all tiers (which Slack only has in premium tiers). This is a boon for team-oriented or larger companies where this type of conferencing is common.
Helper bots Image used with permission by copyright holder Both platforms support bots. In Slack, Slackbot is a chatbot that can be used to provide custom responses or reminders related to your workplace or tasks.
The free version of Microsoft Teams doesn’t include built-in bots. Instead, you’ll find Microsoft’s in-house Who bot in the premium models. Who gathers information about specific teams or employees, like their specialties, managers, departments, and more. It also answers general questions with employee recommendations for individuals needing help or putting together teams.
That said, both services include built-in support for discovering and installing additional bots supporting productivity apps such as Trello, Zoom, GitHub, Adobe Creative Cloud, and many more.
Platform compatibility Image used with permission by copyright holder Slack is currently available on these platforms: Windows (32-bit, 64-bit, Microsoft Store) MacOS (Mac App Store) Linux (DEB, RPM, Snap Store) Android iOS You can grab Microsoft Teams for these platforms.
 What’s interesting here is that Microsoft doesn’t even offer a native Windows app, just a traditional desktop client: Windows MacOS Linux ( DEB and RPM ) Android iOS You can also use Slack and Microsoft Teams as a web-based app within any modern browser.
Which collaboration app wins? Both Slack and Microsoft Teams are excellent chat applications for organizations and companies. Ultimately, the choice between the two depends on what you’re looking for in a collaboration app. If you need a specific type of app integration, double-check with Slack and Teams to see if they support your app(s).
Overall, Slack is a bit more familiar and comfortable, given it led the collaboration pack for so many years. It’s also an independent application that might work better for a group that’s more platform-agnostic. For that reason, it’s the ideal choice for the majority of businesses and teams looking for a reliable collaboration tool.
Microsoft Teams, however, certainly has its place. It’s better for larger, more complex companies. If a company already subscribes to Office or Microsoft 365, connecting with Teams is a great solution in terms of features and pricing. In particular, Teams’ more robust videoconferencing should be a huge attraction for companies with remote workers scattered across the globe.
Editors' Recommendations JPEG vs. PNG: When and why to use one format over the other The best all-in-one computers for 2023 The best Windows 10 keyboard shortcuts Hackers are sending malware through seemingly innocent Microsoft Teams messages How your boss can spy on you with Slack, Zoom, and Teams Business Business Microsoft Microsoft Teams Work From Home Computing Microsoft recently announced a major update to its communities and GroupMe features on its free Teams app. In addition to more features that mirror a platform like Discord, Teams now supports AI-generated images in Communities, à la Midjourney.
The Communities feature has been a breakout hit for Microsoft Teams since its introduction in December 2022, and has been available for Microsoft 365 Personal and Family plans, along with Teams Essentials accounts. Since then, many people have found the feature beneficial for local collaboration such as sharing projects, exchanging ideas, and pooling resources. According to user feedback, the feature allows collaborators to stay connected before, during, and after gatherings, Microsoft said.
Computing Microsoft has announced the rollout of several anticipated features for Teams, including avatar support and immersive spaces.
The company is showcasing the new features during its annual Build developer conference, which is currently taking place from May 23 through May 25.
Computing Microsoft's annual developer's conference has arrived, and a slew of big announcements have already been unveiled. AI is, obviously, the big theme of the event and continues to be top-of-radar for Microsoft and the entire tech community.
But there are also some big announcements for Windows, the Edge browser, Teams, and more.
AI comes to Windows Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
