Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Way to Hire Employees Highest Paying Jobs Best Business Laptops What is RingCentral? Best VPN Best Job Search Sites Home Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? If You Own a Business, Here’s Why You Should Be Using 1Password By John Alexander Close This content was produced in partnership with 1Password.
The Elephant in the Room — 1Password v. Your Browser for Password Management But what if my one 1Password password is stolen? From QuickBooks to WordPress, there’s an account for that. For entrepreneurs and business owners, it can pose a challenge. Using the same password for everything can save you a massive memory headache, but is the equivalent of putting all of your account eggs in one password basket. Or, you can make new passwords for everything and hope they stick in your mind for when you need them. Perhaps you can even jot them down in a notebook. But, with this approach, especially when you’re talking about business credentials, you’re always one mishap or stolen notebook away from a crisis.
Enter: The password manager.
A password manager — such as 1Password — is capable of creating complex randomized passwords for new sites, auto-filling them in when you return to the site, and storing them for you in encrypted data centers. As long as you have access to the one password that you used to create your password manager account — and have your phone on you for the 2-factor authentication — you can access all of your other, different passwords. It’s a perfect hybrid strategy of the one password for everything and different passwords for everything approaches.
One of the most highly recommended and comprehensive password management systems comes from 1Password. Plus, 1Password has a ton of extra features beyond just password protection that I have to tell you about in just a minute. What I really like about it, though, is that it starts out free for 14 days before becoming a super affordable $19.95 a month for a team of 10 or just $7.99 per user for a businesses. Larger “Enterprise” businesses are supported too, with provided training and onboarding help. So, take a look for yourself before we take a deep dive into the system: The Elephant in the Room — 1Password v. Your Browser for Password Management Image used with permission by copyright holder Looking through the features at a glance and reading about the conveniences of having one password for everything likely made many of you think one thing: Oh, I already have my browser or Google Chrome for that.
For extremely basic uses, it is a fair point, but your business is going to want to take advantage of all of the extras and have the chance to get detangled from passwords stored in your browser, not entrenched. By nature, browsers are much less secure than a password management tool For example, if you become too reliant on the browser’s password manager, you also become more reliant on say, the Chrome or Safari browsers. With 1Password, you can easily use the platforms you want — whether that’s Safari, Brave, or Firefox. Or, perhaps you need to go on frequent business trips , but aren’t particularly fond of security personnel handling your devices as you shuffle across the border. 1Password allows you to “wipe” your phone and laptop clean of your sensitive passwords and 1Password stored info for the trip, and then repopulate them with a click once you get to your destination. Good luck doing the same within your browser.
1Password comes with additional, real business features that are based on common needs for companies. Grant access to guest accounts when working with freelancers or new clients and assign roles to each employee based on their personal needs. Then, get activity logs to see changes to your company’s items. 1Password Business knows you are going to work with some specialized software and is meant to work directly with common apps like Active Directory, Google Workspace, Okta, OneLogin, Rippling, and JumpCloud.
Having trouble? There’s actual real support available for you via email. The thought of emailing your preferred browser’s support team to ask for backup seems a bit difficult, but a group wanting to keep a hold on the customer is going to be more prompt and ready to serve.
What the two systems can both do is store a lot more than just passwords. Despite the name, 1Password has the ability to store and recall other types of sensitive information (including credit card numbers) for you on the spot. Additionally, 1Password gives you from 1 to 5 GB of document storage per user and has the ability to store highly secured notes. Unlike your browser which stores this information locally, often unencrypted, 1Password won’t have access to this information as it indeed relies on strong encryption. In other words, 1Password has the ability to do the things that you know and love, but has more robust features overall.
At this point, everything should be starting to sound great, but there’s likely one nagging problem at the back of your mind… But what if my one 1Password password is stolen? Here’s a big, and very reasonable fear: You get everything setup in the 1Password management system and then a client sees you slowly type in your password during a meeting. You’ve lost the business, right? Not exactly! 1Password uses what they call the secret key to deter any problems. If you read into 1Password you’ll inevitably come across a pair of statements that sound, more or less like this: “We hate making people do even mildly annoying things with their passwords.” and “There’s this one mildly annoying part to using 1Password.” While I’m not quoting anything exactly, the more you read, the more you’ll find some statements like that. What gives? It seems totally incompatible! The mildly annoying part? That’s the secret key and 1Password has decided it is completely worth being just slightly annoying. Your secret key from 1Password works by giving you an extra key — in addition to your one password — that you need to put into each device you use it with. By putting in your secret key — just once — to each device you add a second half to the overall security puzzle that keeps your information safe. The secret key is used to de-encrypt your cloud stored information, preventing the cloud-based attack that got LastPass last year. Also, due to its length, it would take an excruciating level of power to crack.
To give an oversimplified analogy that doesn’t truly do the system justice (Sorry, engineers!) let’s say you have your one password set as: frog-butter-sandwich.
 If someone sees you type in this password, that’s the end of you, right? Not exactly. If the snoop types in frog-butter-sandwich on their end, they won’t get anything meaningful back. That’s because your device had its secret key elephant-drum-gallon-newt-lemonade in it as well. The snoop’s device does not, and would have to input the secret key as well. In reality, the keys are much more complex (34 characters long) and would take an impossibly long amount of time to crack.
But what if the snoop realizes this and swipes your device? That can be a bit of a problem in the short term, yes, but there are protective measures in place to get you back into control. By going to the 1Password website you are able to regenerate your secret key, yielding the old one useless, as well as deactivating the stolen device. 1Password provides one failsafe after another and keeps reiterating until all of your bases are covered.
To get started on your 2-week free trial now, just follow the button below. Remember, you can get your business started for $7.99 per user or get a whole team of up to 10 people secured for just $19.95. Larger businesses can get a quote, onboarding help, and training for staff.
Editors' Recommendations This bundle saves you 83% on Malwarebytes, 1Password and more Why you should buy a robot vacuum today (spoiler: they’re cheap) Graphic designer? You need this font management software Get 50% off a year of the 1Password family plan with this deal Anker’s Nebula Cosmos Laser, is a 4K portable home cinema you can use anywhere Business Business Deals Available now exclusively at The Home Depot, the Kidde Wi-Fi smart alarm will modernize smoke and carbon monoxide (CO) alarms. The best smart home devices make life simpler, and safer, and that's where Kidde fits in. Undoubtedly, you have some questions about what it is, what it can do, and why you would want one? Who needs a smoke or CO alarm connected to the internet? Those are great questions.
Deals Not your keys, not your coins. It's an incredibly simple concept but it means everything in the world of cryptocurrency. If you store your coins on an exchange, it may seem like you own them, until you run into any number of prevalent obstacles. For example, if you try to withdraw more cryptocurrency than the platform allows -- yes, there's usually a limit -- you'll be denied.
But this isn't a problem relegated just to exchanges, it can also happen with any wallet provider that doesn't allow you to own the private keys. Leaving them in the custody of a third party is never a good idea. And that's precisely why you need a hardware wallet, like Ledger. It is the most secure platform for all of your crypto needs, and it will keep your keys -- and coins -- safe.
Deals Have you ever stopped to consider just how many digital accounts you have that require passwords? If you're like many, you're using some fairly poor passwords, or even worse, the same password for all accounts, which we all know is a no-no. But it's a lot of work to manage, remember, and create new passwords, pins, and security details, and yet, the longer the password the more difficult it is to crack, and the safer it is. That is why so many see the next best solution to single password use as writing their passwords down on sticky notes or notepads and storing them somewhere safe. While a wall collage of post-it notes, in varying colors and meticulous design, can be beautiful, it defeats the purpose of using passwords since those passwords are always visible to anyone you have shared your office with. Enter digital password management by RoboForm. While you will be left to redecorate your post-it wall, this password manager will bring a degree of security and beauty to your organizing that you never realized you have been missing.
RoboForm is a password manager for the modern day, which you can use to store a host of pins, passwords, and other security items. For example, if you need to jot down alarm codes for your home, you can do that in RoboForm, safely. If you need to store your ATM pin codes for quick reference later, yes, that's possible too. Most importantly, you can safely store your digital and online passwords, usernames, and account details. When it's time to log in, RoboForm will speed up the process and with a single click you can fill in the blank fields! There's no need to remember your usernames and passwords. RoboForm alleviates the burdens of modern security considerably by handling most of the legwork for you. What does that actually mean? How safe is it all really? Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
