Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Way to Hire Employees Highest Paying Jobs Best Business Laptops What is RingCentral? Best VPN Best Job Search Sites Home Deals 5 reasons your business needs to switch to the Zoho CRM software By Jennifer Allen Close One of the best CRM software tools around, Zoho, CRM is consistently a leader in the customer relationship management space and an essential addition for any business looking to improve their practices.
Canvas Sophisticated AI Customer journey orchestration Marketing segmentation and attribution In-depth business analytics Zoho CRM offers all you could need from a good CRM suite, from live customer chat, a chatbot, easy sales and marketing pipeline management, and advanced customer analytics. Even better, right now, if you sign up via the link below, you gain $100 Wallet Credits for your account.
Sign Up Now To help you understand even more about why your business needs to switch to Zoho CRM, we’ve picked out five key reasons it’s worth your time. Read on while we guide you through them.
Canvas Image used with permission by copyright holder No two businesses are alike and Zoho CRM appreciates the importance of that. That’s why it has created Canvas. Canvas is an industry-first CRM design studio. It means that users can redesign the look and feel of their CRM so that it matches the aesthetic of the business, while also working in a more meaningful way for the firm.
Essentially, you’re given the power to redesign the user interface exactly how you want it, and in a way that works best for your employees. It’s simple to do without needing to write a single line of code, ensuring you end up with a bespoke solution for your business. It’s also far more interesting than a regular CRM as you can cast away boring database styles and focus on a design that works for your needs, whether that’s through exceptional minimalism or something a bit more detailed.
Users can build things up by adding key fields such as if you want a contact image alongside contact details, right down to sections, tabs, tables, and icons. You’re only really limited by your imagination with drag and drop ensuring you can place things just where you need them to be. By doing so, you can control exactly what’s shown, prioritizing what’s important.
The most appealing thing about setting up your own CRM design with Canvas is that you’re sure of a high adoption rate. When something is so simple and intuitive, all your users will flock to Zoho CRM with implementation much faster than with other options.
Sophisticated AI Image used with permission by copyright holder Zoho CRM appreciates you need a helping hand from time to time which is why it has sophisticated AI assisting you each step of the way. It offers complex tools like prediction and recommendation engines. That means you can automate every aspect of your business including working out how to nurture leads effectively, and even stay on top of activities automatically.
Through powerful, real-time analytics, Zoho CRM is able to help you make smarter business decisions. It’s possible to measure and manage your organization’s territory-wide sales performance, before tracking key performance indicators. These include current trends and future predictions so you can work out what to do next. It even detects any anomalies that may need to be corrected before a problematic deviation.
Zoho CRM doesn’t just stop with extensive reports that offer you insight into your business. It also offers conversational AI to ensure smarter selling. You can use Zia, Zoho CRM’s AI-powered sales assistant to help you find any information you need from your CRM data. From there, Zia can also offer advanced lead and deal predictions, enabling you to identify the leads that are most likely to convert. Thanks to such intelligent AI, you’ll also receive alerts, task reminders, and suggestions for the best times to contact your leads based on your past successful interactions with clients. Zia also keeps an eye on the competition, so you don’t have to, with instant notifications any time a prospect talks about your competitor. It can also analyze an email and figure out how your potential client feels about a competitor, helping you suss out what to do next.
Customer journey orchestration Image used with permission by copyright holder Zoho CommandCenter aims to make it far easier to track your customer’s journeys within your firm. A customer journey builder tool, you can use it to create maps of the client’s journey, ensuring they enjoy a highly personalized experience compared to being treated like a faceless client. It’s necessary to have such a map because nowadays, clients interact with your brand through multiple channels rather than solely dealing with a sales advisor. It’s important to be able to track how they get to you and how you’ve dealt with them before, so that they feel truly appreciated as a valuable client.
CommandCenter makes it simple to keep track of these contact points. It’s possible to coordinate brand messaging across multiple channels so that you can maintain one continuing conversation that is personal to you and your customers. You can also check out customer insights so you know how best to engage with them. As well as that, you can always ensure that each potential client is connected to the right representative for their needs.
Most clients need to go through many different departments to achieve their aims, so it’s important that these departments can communicate what’s going on effectively, rather than leave anyone in the dark along the way. A series of checks and balances in your workflow means you’re ensured that everything runs smoothly.
It’s a huge time saver for everyone. Your clients feel like they’re being treated with the care they deserve, while you always know exactly what’s going on. Using CommandCenter leads to better client relations which also leads to better sales and more loyal customers.
Marketing segmentation and attribution Image used with permission by copyright holder It’s important to market effectively, both in terms of a great campaign and by appealing to the right client. Zoho CRM offers advanced marketing features so you can easily tie marketing and sales data together. By doing so, your marketing team can pass on quality leads to sales leading to better sales performance for your company.
Zoho CRM makes this possible by allowing you to segment customers based on their region, requirements, lead source, and even how well they respond to your firm. From there, you can send out campaigns that are specifically targeted to that audience, before assigning the ideal sales rep for the job.
With a focus on lead nurturing, Zoho CRM covers everything from making it easy to scan business cards directly into the system to monitoring the ROI of your campaigns. It’s simple to measure performance when Zoho CRM is so well organized. At a glance, you can check marketing attribution and see which campaigns generated the highest revenue as well as the greatest ROI. It also combines your Google Ad spending with your sales data so you can figure out which ads or keywords are helping to convert leads into customers. It means you’ll never waste a dollar on an unnecessary campaign again.
Zoho CRM even tracks events so you can see how well each event translates into leads and sales. All your interactions with potential clients and attendees are automatically saved so you can keep a clear timeline of what’s happening. From there, it’s easy to see if an email or survey campaign may help further with Zoho CRM simplifying the process.
In-depth business analytics Image used with permission by copyright holder Thanks to the power of Zoho CRM, it offers truly extensive business analytics. Its wide range of options covers pretty much everything imaginable. It’s able to analyze leads, gain insights about deals, right down to providing you with activity statistics and email analytics too. Tied into its extensive customizability, you can even create your own dashboards with analytical widgets for sales such as charts, target meters, KPIs, and funnels.
At all times, powerful filtering options make it simple to break things down to exactly what you need. A choice of pre-built reports or your own custom designs means you’re always a moment away from taking a quick look at the health of your sales. This includes lead reports filtered by score, status, and ownership. Charts are a huge part of this too with everything from pie charts to heat maps making it simple to see where sales are being achieved. It’s also possible to break down aspects of your business into cohorts, before analyzing their behavior over a set span of time. Cohort analysis groups together sales data, giving you answers to who your best performing sales reps are, as well as whether the source of a lead affects a customer’s retention period.
A statistician’s dream, Zoho CRM offers information on everything possible. It doesn’t stop at KPIs. Instead, it motivates your workforce through target meters, simple-to-understand zone maps, bar charts, and so much more. Whatever your query about your business might be, Zoho CRM will soon answer it with comprehensive data that’s easily understood.
Sign Up Now Editors' Recommendations Semrush Free Trial: Try the advanced online marketing tool Hiring managers need to see this: tips to hire top talent in your sector Take the Stress Out of Managing Your Business Taxes with QuickBooks Online Growatt VITA 550 portable power station keeps all your devices charged on the go How QuickBooks Online can help your business do 2023 right Business Business CRM Software Deals This content was produced in partnership with Setapp.
There is an ocean of productivity software to swim through, which speaks to the obvious need for workers and students to stay focused and on-task in a digital world full of distractions. There are so many apps out there, in fact, that it can become a job in itself to find the best ones for your needs, let alone to manage using them all. If you're a Mac user, then Setapp might be the ultimate app management ecosystem. It offers more than 240 essential tools that can streamline your workflow, enhance your productivity, manage your daily routines, and help you to stay focused. Setapp is a no-brainer for busy professionals who need to navigate today's technology-driven work landscape. It's also on sale right now: Through January 2, 2023, you can save up to 40% when you sign up for Setapp along with MasterClass and/or 1Password. Read on to learn more about what this app bundle can do for you.
Stay productive with Setapp Deals This content was produced in partnership with Sprout Social.
Although virality and exposure are important qualifiers to any successful marketing campaign, driving revenue, customer loyalty and a real, measurable impact on business metrics is at the heart. Every day, social media leaders need to equip their teams to build and deliver marketing campaigns that impact the bottom line, while balancing community management and brand reputation. All of these responsibilities and opportunities require endless innovation for businesses and social media managers to connect directly with their customers to create personalized experiences that last past the first impression and purchase. The sophisticated ecosystem of today's social media also speaks to a more sophisticated user base, with customers having higher expectations that present both unique challenges and untapped opportunities. But how do you make sure your social campaigns, experiences, and content are reaching the right audiences and driving revenue? A centralized platform that unifies the world of social is how businesses can see social differently in their industry and can take it to the next level.
Strong business intelligence is the key to creating or improving on successful campaigns in almost any capacity. After extracting real, practical business value from content and channels, leaders can leverage those insights to make decisions that help the business grow. As a social media management platform, Sprout Social illuminates insights and data from social media conversations in a central, easy-to-use platform, increasing team efficiency and campaign ROI — without sacrificing authentic connection in the customer experience. Our platform streamlines workflows all in one place, so your team can easily elevate your brand story and rightsize the high volume of incoming messages, relationships with customers, and review management challenges. Most importantly, it is designed so users can nimbly manage social communications. It also gives leaders peace of mind, knowing their teams have the most intuitive capabilities to boost and cement the company's market leadership with easy-to-use social media management. Read on to learn more about what Sprout Social can do to help you optimize your social media strategy and better connect with your customers.
Deals This content was produced in partnership with Intuit.
Starting a new business is no small feat, and that's true regardless of how big your team is, whether you're a young entrepreneur hustling solo or you have a crew on your payroll. But modern and digital tools make it a whole lot easier, offering both convenient and highly-capable solutions for the average business. You can do things that big businesses do, but with far less resources. For example, Intuit's QuickBooks suite helps you auto-track business income and expenses, pay your employees and partners, and file your taxes, streamlining and automating your bookkeeping. In fact, QuickBooks is one of the best solutions for managing a business, and QuickBooks Online kicks that up a notch.
gives you anytime, anywhere access to business tools for stress-free financial planning and more. Let's take a close look at how Intuit's suite, including QuickBooks Online and Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
