Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Way to Hire Employees Highest Paying Jobs Best Business Laptops What is RingCentral? Best VPN Best Job Search Sites Home Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best tax software for self-employed By Briley Kenney Close Being self-employed is rewarding, but there are some caveats, one of which becomes more obvious at the end of each year — while you’re preparing to file your taxes. As an entrepreneur, and self-employed individual there’s a lot you must consider come tax time and the process is a lot different than doing a simple file.
 You have to keep track of your personal and business expenses and get your records in order, as well as review all of the tax deductions and credits, choosing what matches your experiences. At least, that’s the case if you do it all alone.
TurboTax Live Self-Employed H&R Block Self-Employed Online Liberty Tax Premium TaxSlayer Self-Employed FreeTax USA Of course, there are some alternatives. You can enlist the help of a tax professional, but that would mean printing all of your documents and bringing them into an office — or sharing the digital lot. You can also take advantage of the best tax software for self-employed professionals. These tools will guide you through the filing process and help you maximize your deductions and credits. The best part is you can stay home the entire time, or work from wherever your office is located. We’ve taken the time to research the best tax software, whether you’re a freelancer claiming some of your side gigs, or a small business owner claiming your profits for the quarter.
TurboTax Live Self-Employed Image used with permission by copyright holder Federal: $199 | State: $37 per state Start for free, pay when you file Live help on-demand at no extra cost Easy document import Always get a final review with audit support One of the more renowned tax filing services, and for good reason, is TurboTax. While they offer several editions to match your filing status, TurboTax Live Self-Employed is just what you need if you run your own business or venture. It is designed specifically for freelancers, independent contractors, and small business owners.
While you file, a real tax expert will help you, answering questions, ensuring you report the relevant work-related expenses, and they’ll also help you identify the best tax deductions. All of that help is on-demand, ready exactly when you need it, so you’re never alone and you always “have experts in your corner.” It’s less about peeking over your shoulder and more about well-informed guidance when you’re looking for it. Did we mention it all integrates with Quickbooks if that’s what you or your employer use to manage finances? Before you file officially, your return will be reviewed one last time by an expert for accuracy and completion. If they notice something wrong, they’ll work with you to get it fixed, further reducing the potential for an IRS audit. Prices start at $199 for a Federal return, with additional fees for State taxes in select states, but you can file for free before February 15 for simple filers only. It’s hands down, the best option if you want a smooth filing experience and professional support especially since you can contact the experts anytime.
H&R Block Self-Employed Online Image used with permission by copyright holder Federal: $110 | State: $37 per state Start for free, pay when you file Live help is available separately ($145 and up) Easy document import from competitors and more Available on many devices, including mobile H&R Block also provides several versions of its tax software tools, with Self-Employed Online being the titular option for entrepreneurs. Overall, the software makes it easy to file your taxes, keep track of documents, and tap into the optimal tax credits and deductions. You can connect external accounts to the service to import necessary documents. Filing is included, along with the tools to walk you through the entire process. What’s more, you can do the work from just about any device, be it desktop or mobile. It doesn’t matter where you’re doing your taxes, it’s always easy to fill in fields, get the help you need, or review your progress.
One thing to note about H&R Block is that if you want live help from a tax professional, you’ll need to pay for a higher tier, starting at $145, with an additional $37 for any state taxes filed. You can always ask questions without paying that fee, but for on-demand and live help, there’s no workaround. All in, however, H&R Block Self-Employed Online starts at $110, with an additional $37 per state filed. Guaranteed audit support is included for peace of mind. And when it comes to helping you file your taxes, H&R Block’s process is smooth, enjoyable, and definitely earns its place on our list.
Liberty Tax Premium Image used with permission by copyright holder Federal: $90 | State: $37 per state Start for free, pay when you file Virtual Tax Pro is available 24/7 for an added fee Seamless filing between online and in-person Audit assistance while filing The sister company of Jackson Hewitt, Liberty Tax offers several filing tiers with Premium built for the self-employed, freelancers, contractors, or otherwise. Liberty Tax does offer its Virtual Tax Pro which connects you with a professional for guidance, questions, and more, but it will cost you extra. If you get stuck at any point while filing online, by yourself, you can transition seamlessly to an in-person office visit at a nearby Liberty Tax location. That makes this tool more valuable to anyone that thinks they might need to swap filing methods.
While filing, you can import documents from competitor services, and you’ll receive audit assistance, including help maximizing deductions and credits. The software experience is less intuitive than comparable options, but if you take things slow you shouldn’t run into any issues.
The full price for Premium starts at $90, but it’s usually discounted, with $37 additional per any state returns filed. Liberty Tax is a little more hands-off than some of the other options, but on-demand live support is available when you need it.
TaxSlayer Self-Employed Image used with permission by copyright holder Federal: $48 | State: $37 per state Start for free, pay when you file Customer support available Easy document import for common forms Long-term audit defense support While the user interface does look and feel a bit dated, TaxSlayer Self-Employed still makes filing 1099 and W-2’s easier than ever. You can prepare, print, and e-file your taxes directly to the IRS. During the entire process, you’ll have access to digital support to maximize deductions. Though, unlike the premium services above, it’s easier to miss some of those deductions here, especially if you don’t understand what they’re for or what information you’re supposed to be providing. You can talk to a tax professional with self-employment filing expertise to share, although they’re not available on-demand. That simply means you might have to wait a little longer for a response.
You can start filing for free right away, and you’ll pay only when you officially file your return. Prices start at $48 with additional fees for state taxes where applicable. Getting started is quick and easy. Just log in to your free account, start entering your info, and the tool will guide you through the rest of the process. Audit defense support, with complete defense and legal representation, is available for up to 3 full years after filing. It’s one of the longest coverage options you’ll find, which is impressive in its own right.
FreeTax USA Image used with permission by copyright holder Federal: Free | State: $15 per state Start for free, pay when you file Email and account messaging support Easy document import from competitors and more Unlimited amended returns with audit assist As the name implies, FreeTax USA offers free filing for all federal returns including premium forms and IRS e-file services. State taxes cost $15 per file, on the other hand. While affordable, the experience is definitely not as intuitive as the premium tax tools. Everything is done from a browser, but you can access the service from desktop and mobile. Support is not always quick to respond. That said, customer support with live chat is available during the process and you do have access to knowledgeable professionals.
You can import documents, including past returns, from other software. That makes it faster when you’re importing old tax documents and the necessary forms for this year’s filing. During the process, your work will be checked and double-checked for inaccuracies to help reduce the chance of audits. There’s one final check before you officially file, as well, to catch any last-minute errors. There’s nothing in your way if you wanted to get started. Just log in, and begin entering the relevant information — it’s that easy. If you’re confident filing your taxes alone, and would like to save a little money, this is an excellent option.
While there are a ton options when it comes to filing your taxes as a business owner or self-employed individual, it’s important to remember that not all of them offer a convenient process. Everything on this list will certainly do that, and more. Most also offer on-demand or quick chat support when you have a question or run into a problem. Going above and beyond, and worth a call out, TurboTax Live makes it super easy to sync up with a tax expert, whenever you need. Of course, you can’t go wrong with any of the choices above.
Editors' Recommendations Best Black Friday gaming laptop deals: Cheapest prices today Walmart Black Friday deals: The best offers you can shop now Best 17-inch laptop deals: Big savings on big screens QuickBooks Free Trial: Get a month of accounting for free Adobe Photoshop Free Trial: Get a month of editing for free Business Business Deals The titular office suite, and one that just about everyone knows, called Microsoft Office, includes the renowned word processor Microsoft Word. But with the recent versions of its software, Microsoft has migrated to the cloud. Microsoft Word is a versatile and capable word processor that's essential for typing and editing written documents, among other things (and there are a lot of things you probably didn't know you could do in Microsoft Word). Microsoft Office is paid software, however, Word is included, and for some, the cost may seem high even with some of the best Microsoft Office deals floating around. So, if you're wondering if there's a Microsoft Word free trial or any other way to get it for free, read on to find out.
Is there a Microsoft Word free trial? Microsoft Word is actually part of the company's wider Office app suite. Now known simply as Microsoft 365 (formerly Microsoft Office), Microsoft's enterprise software is available in a number of different packages that are now subscription-based; the company has retired the older bundles that were available for a one-time payment. That means if you want a Microsoft Word free trial, you'll need to sign up for the Microsoft 365 trial, which includes the Word app along with Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook, Teams, OneDrive, and Editor.
Audio / Video With an OLED TV, you'll be getting unparalleled depth, color, and sharpness, and between OLED and QLED TVs, the advantages of OLED TVs include perfect black levels, superior response times, wider viewing angles, and lower power consumption. If you're sold, check out the OLED TV deals that we've gathered here, as they're the best that you can buy right now. You're going to have to be quick with your purchase though, because time may already be running out for some of these offers.
48-inch LG A2 Series OLED 4K TV — $550, was $1,300 The LG A2 Series OLED 4K TV offers 4K Ultra HD resolution on its 48-inch display, and with the brand's a7 Gen 5 AI Processor 4K, you'll enjoy even richer colors and lifelike pictures. The TV runs on LG's webOS 22 platform, through which you can access all of the most popular streaming services, while also enabling compatibility with digital assistants like Amazon's Alexa and Google Assistant.
Computing Lenovo is known as one of the best laptop brands because it's long been associated with reliability, so you should be looking at Lenovo laptop deals if you want a new workhorse for your day-to-day tasks. The offers that we've rounded up here range from budget devices to high-end machines, so there should be something for everyone. However, you should move quickly -- we're not sure how much time is remaining on these bargains, so if you see a deal that you like, we advise you to complete your purchase as soon as possible to be able to enjoy the savings.
Lenovo IdeaPad 1i -- $130, was $200 For one of the most affordable laptop deals that you can buy right now, go for the Lenovo IdeaPad 1i. You shouldn't expect powerful performance from such a cheap laptop, but it's enough for basic tasks like typing documents and doing online research with its Intel Celeron N4020 processor, integrated Intel UHD Graphics 600, and 4GB of RAM. The laptop features a 14-inch HD screen, and Windows 11 Home in S Mode in a 64GB eMMC that you can supplement with cloud storage services.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
