Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Way to Hire Employees Highest Paying Jobs Best Business Laptops What is RingCentral? Best VPN Best Job Search Sites Home Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? How Dashlane Business can make your business more secure By Jennifer Allen Close According to a Verizon Data Breach Investigations Report earlier this year, 80% of hacking-related breaches within businesses continue to be caused by weak, stolen, or reused passwords. It’s such a simple thing to solve yet many of us don’t use complex passwords for different sites because of the fear of forgetting them or simply not being able to think of an effective string of characters. There are a couple of password managers on the market but for ease of use, security features and adaptability, we recommend Dashlane. Dashlane is a password management solution that helps promote better password habits and protects teams against account compromise and data breaches.
What is Dashlane Business? Dashlane Business features Is Dashlane worth it? Why is Dashlane Trustworthy? Dashlane Business helps your firm substantially by making it simple to manage and track your and your employees’ passwords in a safe to use and privacy-conscious way. Right now, you can enjoy a 30-day Dashlane business account free trial offering up to 500 employees the chance to see just how great a password management tool it is. Let’s take a deeper look into just why Dashlane Business is worth your time and capital.
What is Dashlane Business? Image used with permission by copyright holder Dashlane Business is a dedicated password management system aimed specifically at the needs of modern businesses. Dashlane has always been aimed both at those who are tech-savvy along with those who are less experienced when it comes to using apps, and Dashlane Business maintains that structure for all employees who use it. It’s easy to use and takes seconds for staff to get started with.
YouTube DIY tool makes it easy for small businesses to create short ads How to make your Giving Tuesday donations count for even more For businesses, there’s seamless deployment, simple employee management, and best-in-class security architecture that has never been hacked, meaning you’re safe in the knowledge that your business is fully protected.
Dashlane Business features Image used with permission by copyright holder There’s a lot to take in when considering Dashlane Business so we’ve broken down all the key features so that you can look past the jargon and appreciate exactly why it’s a great option for your business.
Easy setup: Dashlane aims to be simple to use every step of the way including during setup. An admin console makes it easy for you to configure policies and manage and monitor your employees, with your employees able to get things set up on their end within moments of accepting the invite.
Extensive security: It’s understandable to be worried about putting all your eggs in one basket but Dashlane has fantastic security courtesy of AES 256-bit encryption and its own patented security architecture. Two-factor authentication has been built into Dashlane by design rather than added as an afterthought meaning it’s incredibly secure and safe. Unlike competitors, Dashlane is the password manager that has never been hacked making it the secure and safe option.
Convenient password health checks: It’s not always obvious what’s considered to be a strong password. That’s why Dashlane Business offers a Password Health Score as soon as you get started. The simple figure tells you whether any of your passwords are weak or have been previously compromised, giving you the chance to refresh them and tighten them up. Employers can’t see the passwords that employees use but they do see the Password Health Score so as a company, you can work together to improve password hygiene.
Single sign-on (SSO): Signing on is seamless. Rather than needing a master password, Dashlane Business offers single sign-on so logging in is super simple as well as highly secure. It makes managing your employees far more efficient too. Dashlane supports all SAML based identity providers including OKTA, ADFS, G Suite, and Azure AD.
Easy sharing tools: Sometimes, you might need to share a critical work password with others within your organization. Rather than risking doing so via insecure methods such as email or Slack, you can share them in an encrypted manner via Dashlane Business, ensuring there’s no way that a nefarious source can get hold of them.
Support for all systems: Want to use Dashlane Business on your Android phone as well as your work laptop? The beauty of Dashlane Business is it works across Windows, Mac, iOS, Linux, Chromebook, and Android, with browser extensions also available. No matter what system you’re using, you’re protected, and you’ll have access to all your necessary passwords.
Is Dashlane worth it? A strong and secure password is the first line of defense against potential hackers. The best way to have a strong password is to use Dashlane’s Password Health scoring system so you can always keep up to date on any security faults. Being able to save passwords through Dashlane’s encrypted service also means you and your employees won’t have to worry about forgetting crucial keys.
The standard Dashlane service is also great but if you want to be able to deploy the system to all your employees easily, as well as take advantage of single sign-on, Dashlane Business is an essential addition to your business’s tools.
Why is Dashlane Trustworthy? Dashlane uses a patented security architecture and AES 256-bit encryption which is the strongest method available. In the unlikely event of a hack, hackers still wouldn’t be able to see any usable data as information is only decrypted locally on your respective devices.
As well as that, two-factor authentication has been built into Dashlane by design so it’s extra-secure plus it’s also compatible with all well-known mobile authenticator apps and U2F keys. That’s not forgetting the simplicity and safety of Dashlane Business’s single sign-on too.
To avoid hacks and save your company time, resources and money, you can sign up for a 30-day free trial of Dashlane Business for up to 500 users.
Editors' Recommendations Grasshopper: The virtual phone system for small businesses Exclusive Discount: Get 25% off Dashlane password manager with this promo code PushSend is what all small businesses need for their marketing campaigns Business Business Features Computing As Black Friday quickly approaches and the whole month of November is treated as a sales event, now is the perfect time to pick up a laptop, especially if you missed out during Prime Day. Luckily, HP has some great early Black Friday deals you can take advantage of, and you might also consider Amazon Black Friday laptop deals; whether you want something for work or gaming, there are quite a few options. We've collected some of our favorite deals across the board, but it is always worth checking out these Dell Black Friday deals for alternatives. Everything on this list comes straight from HP, but it's worth checking out Best Buy Black Friday laptop deals and Amazon Black Friday deals for more options.
Best HP Laptop Black Friday Deals HP has a lot of great budget-oriented laptops, so if you're looking for something that won't impact your wallet too much, going for one of these Black Friday laptop deals below is a good idea. That said, keep in mind that their lower-tier laptops tend to have a lot of similarities, with only slight changes in specifications here and there, so it might be worth looking at our laptop buying guide for some help. Even so, we've done our best to pick the deals that we find are the best when balancing costs with specifications.
Computing If you want to buy a Windows laptop but don't really want to spend the hundreds of dollars required to get something good, Chromebooks are the perfect alternative. Because ChromeOS is a much more lightweight operating system, it doesn't eat up as many resources as Windows does. That means that the same hardware under the hood can provide more functionality than it would on a Windows laptop, which helps bring the price down.
To pile on to that, there are some great Black Friday deals you can take advantage of that will bring the price down even further. If you find that you need the full functionality of a laptop, check out our general Best Buy Black Friday laptop deals, or Black Friday laptop deals and Black Friday MacBook deals, for PC and MacOS respectively.
Best HP Chromebook Black Friday Deals Computing With the big event coming up fast, we're spotting some early Black Friday deals already. There are some great Black Friday laptop deals, on gaming laptops in particular if you simply can't wait any longer to make a purchase. Don't forget to check out the Amazon Black Friday laptop deals for some gaming options, too. Below we've picked out some awesome Black Friday gaming laptop deals with something for nearly every budget and including all the biggest names in the field. These come straight from the manufacturer and from retailer sales, like general Best Buy Black Friday laptop deals and more specific Best Buy Black Friday gaming laptop deals. Let's guide you through the deals now.
Today's Best Black Friday Gaming Laptop Deals HP Victus 15 (Intel) -- $550, was $900 The HP Victus 15 is one of the cheapest gaming laptops in the market, but it still provides decent performance with the latest 13th-generation Intel Core i5 processor, Nvidia GeForce RTX 3050 graphics card, and 8GB of RAM. With these specifications, you can play today's most popular games, but you'll have to go with low to medium graphic settings for the more demanding titles. The gaming laptop is also equipped with a 15.6-inch Full HD screen with a 144Hz refresh rate, and a 512GB SSD with Windows 11 Home pre-loaded. Check out other HP laptop Black Friday deals and Amazon Black Friday deals if you're interested in more Victus options.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
