Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Way to Hire Employees Highest Paying Jobs Best Business Laptops What is RingCentral? Best VPN Best Job Search Sites Home Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Dashlane will secure and change your online experiences for the better By Briley Kenney Close This content was produced in partnership with Dashlane.
Setting the scene Not just for business Try Dashlane’s new Starter plan Picture this: You’re trying to log in to a service, but you forgot your username because it’s unique and doesn’t use your email address. Unfortunately, you don’t remember your password either. First, you’ll need to recover your username and then go through the motions to change your password. But here’s the thing: After you log in with your new password, there’s no guarantee you’ll remember it again a day later or longer. There should be a better way to manage and recover your passwords.
Cybersecurity, or rather the security of your data, is something that concerns everyone. One of the best ways to protect yourself, personally and professionally, is to make sure that you’re using secure passwords, along with two-factor authentication wherever applicable. Also, you should never reuse passwords across accounts, which is something that, admittedly, can be quite challenging to do. Keeping track of all your passwords because you likely have so many online accounts is not just troublesome, it’s downright impossible. There is just no way to keep tabs on all of that information without writing it down, typing it out, or recording it somewhere.
Juggling online accounts, passwords, and app logins is frustrating. It’s especially stressful when you can’t remember your info.
That’s precisely where password managers come into play. They make it possible, and easy, to record your passwords across all of your accounts, business or personal, and in a totally secure way. Dashlane is one such provider, serving employees at over 20,000 companies like ClickUp, Wayfair, Pepsi, and beyond. The way it works is simple: You use it to log in to various websites, apps, and services, and it securely stores all of your relevant information. It will help you generate secure passwords, too.
The days of resetting your account passwords several times in a row just to get in are over. Dashlane is a simple solution for protecting all of your data, and more importantly, helps you automatically log in to whatever service or app you need to get into. But it also includes a host of features that make it an excellent choice for teams and businesses, big to small. For example, you can securely share encrypted passwords with others — individuals or groups — when someone else needs access to an account. This prevents unsecured sharing over apps like Slack or even email, where someone nefarious could easily steal the info and wreak some havoc. And with more people working remotely, security is more important than ever. One survey found that increased password manager usage was the top change organizations have made as remote and hybrid work become more common.
With Dashlane’s new Starter Plan, you can give the service a try before committing for a full year. Check that out right now, or keep reading for a deep dive into what the incredible password manager has to offer — and how it can help your team.
Setting the scene Image used with permission by copyright holder You need to log in, but you can’t remember your info. It happens to everyone. Or maybe you’re creating an entirely new account, and you need help choosing a secure password and then remembering it later. You can jot it all down on a piece of paper, but someone could find that info and use it against you. The same is true if you type it out in plain text in an app like notepad or a word processor. Right about now, it seems pretty enticing to use the same password you’ve used for all of your other accounts — 22% of workers have admitted to reusing passwords across both personal and work accounts. It’s easy to remember reused passwords, and you can get in quickly and painlessly. But it also means if your account is hacked through another service — or if the data is leaked in a breach of some kind — suddenly, whoever has that information has access to all of your accounts. They could infiltrate your personal life and access sensitive information, or they could create chaos with your business accounts.
These scenarios aren’t far-fetched either. Data breaches and cyberattacks happen all the time.
No industry is immune.
As a business owner, manager, or even employee, there are always going to be online and digital accounts you’ll need, from invoicing and financing software to mission-critical applications like business analytics and marketing tools. The problem is, you have to remember the passwords for all of your personal accounts — some of which may be the same tools that you use for work — and your business accounts. It’s easy to fall into the trap of using one password for all accounts. But that’s not secure. It’s dangerous not just for you and your personal information but anyone associated with those accounts, including your work or business.
You absolutely need a better solution for creating, managing, and recalling your account passwords. Login information stored within your browser on a desktop or laptop is often not accessible on mobile. Even if you’re using the same browser across platforms, and that information is shared, it’s not secure at all. It should come as no surprise then, that this year, 82% of breaches involved the human element.
Dashlane is a password manager built from the ground up, exactly for this purpose, and it’s designed for teams. Administrators can monitor logins, plan member access, update policies, and access business directories to keep track of users, employees, partners, and beyond. But every person with access to the tool gets help securing their online accounts and identities. They can use the tool to manage and store passwords, create new ones, access accounts and related information, and create secure notes for reference later.
It fully pairs with existing identity providers that your business is using, like Google Suite, Microsoft One Sign-In, Okta, Azure, Duo, OneLogin, and more. Plus, the tool supports customizable policies, like offboarding employees, two-factor authentication, data encryption, and so on. Using existing support options, you can craft the platform that works best for your business and employees, making sure to secure all connected accounts.
U.S.-patented security architecture, AES 256-bit encryption, further protects the data. Two-factor authentication is built into Dashlane by design as well, and it integrates with mobile authenticator apps — like Authy — or users can leverage U2F keys.
Not just for business Dashlane isn’t just available to businesses and large teams — you can use it to protect your individual and personal accounts , too. It radically simplifies your online life because you can use the password manager across all devices and all online accounts.
An important distinction to make here is that although you’re storing highly-sensitive information with the tool, you retain control of all your data. Dashlane cannot see the information you store. It’s never being shared with others, nor are they making money off the sensitive data connected to your account(s).
As they’ve said, “other companies don’t store your data safely because it’s not their job,” but at Dashlane, it’s what they do. In the 13 years Dashlane has been in business, the service has never been breached.
These same courtesies are extended no matter what type of account you have with Dashlane, personal or professional. Your data is always secure, always encrypted, and no one has access except you.
Try Dashlane’s new Starter plan Dashlane has introduced a new Starter plan that lets you give the service a try before making a full-year commitment. While we certainly recommend signing up and securing your accounts, it makes sense that you’d want to give it a test run first.
Starting at just $20 per month for up to 10 seats, Dashlane is a cost-effective password management solution for teams, and it may be the solution you’ve been looking for all this time.
Editors' Recommendations Semrush Free Trial: Try the advanced online marketing tool Take the Stress Out of Managing Your Business Taxes with QuickBooks Online If You Own a Business, Here’s Why You Should Be Using 1Password How QuickBooks Online can help your business do 2023 right Level up your company’s social media strategy with Sprout Social Business Business Cybersecurity Deals This content was produced in partnership with Intuit.
Starting a new business is no small feat, and that's true regardless of how big your team is, whether you're a young entrepreneur hustling solo or you have a crew on your payroll. But modern and digital tools make it a whole lot easier, offering both convenient and highly-capable solutions for the average business. You can do things that big businesses do, but with far less resources. For example, Intuit's QuickBooks suite helps you auto-track business income and expenses, pay your employees and partners, and file your taxes, streamlining and automating your bookkeeping. In fact, QuickBooks is one of the best solutions for managing a business, and QuickBooks Online kicks that up a notch.
gives you anytime, anywhere access to business tools for stress-free financial planning and more. Let's take a close look at how Intuit's suite, including QuickBooks Online and Deals Squarespace has been a big name in the website building and hosting world for a long time, and for good reason. Its services have always been designed in a way that makes it easy for you to create your very own website without needing specialist skills to figure out what to do. Best of all, while other companies may have focused on providing you with templates -- meaning a lot of websites look alike -- Squarespace still allows you to add your own unique spin to your site, whether it's for business purposes or a personal project.
Squarespace just got even better with the launch of Fluid Engine. It's Squarespace's newest drag-and-drop editor, and it provides budding designers with limitless customization options. Incredibly easy to use thanks to its highly intuitive nature, it's called Fluid Engine because it's so fluid to use. While we recommend heading straight over to Squarespace to see just how great it is for yourself, we have some insight into why you need Fluid Engine in your life and why Squarespace is the website builder that suits everyone's needs.
Deals From viruses and ransomware to cyber criminals and online snoops, there are so many online threats today that the internet can seem like a digital minefield. These dangers are only exacerbated when you’ve got multiple users on your network, such as in a family home or professional office, as this creates multiple potential attack vectors for bad actors to exploit. If bolstering your network and internet-connected devices against today's online threats seems too exhausting to even think about (let alone execute) and you’re looking for a comprehensive and affordable all-in-one security solution that makes things easy, then McAfee Total Protection has everything you need. Here’s how it works and what it can do for you.
McAfee is one of those household names that everybody almost instantly recognizes, and it's a name that's long stood at the top of many lists of the best antivirus software (including ours). But let's face it: In this day and age, you have a lot more to worry about than just viruses. The term "computer virus" almost seems like a quaint holdover from the '90s and early aughts, with today's online landscape featuring a myriad of threats like spyware, ransomware, rootkits, adware, malicious trackers, and more permeating the internet. If you don't know what some of these words even mean, then constantly shielding yourself and your family against such threats can feel like pushing a boulder uphill.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
