Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Way to Hire Employees Highest Paying Jobs Best Business Laptops What is RingCentral? Best VPN Best Job Search Sites Home Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? How to hire remote workers By Jennifer Allen Close Image used with permission by copyright holder This content was produced in partnership with ZupRecruiter.
Ensure your role can be conducted remotely Consider what you need Place a job ad Make sure your digital presence is strong Seek out freelancers Hire through your social network Follow a great recruitment process Hire the candidate Many businesses have learned in recent times that being able to hire remotely is a huge benefit. Rather than being limited to a local pool of potential employees or needing to persuade candidates to move for a new job, remote employment means you have the flexibility of the world. By hiring people from any location and allowing them to work from home remotely, you instantly expand your horizons and the quality of the candidate you might find. But, how do you hire such staff? Here’s an overview of how to hire remote workers and what’s involved.
Ensure your role can be conducted remotely Many jobs can be performed well remotely, but not all. It’s likely you already know if your business can be easily conducted virtually and remotely, but make sure to consider how effective remote working can be for your firm.
Remote jobs can be as varied as writing, editing, coding, design, or even marketing. It’s also possible to hire virtual assistants to work remotely, without any need for them to be working in the same location as you.
Plan ahead and ensure you won’t miss out on a remote hire compared to hiring someone local. If you need staff to serve people in stores for instance, they can’t be remote. However, if you need customer service staff, that can be conducted with a remote worker.
Consider what you need Depending on the role, you need to consider different factors. Do you need the candidate to be located in the same country or time zone as you? There are pros and cons to both. Hiring someone in a different time zone to you can mean that your business can offer wraparound services all day long. However, that candidate needs to be good at working independently and making the right judgment calls if they’re rarely working at the same time as you or the rest of the team.
It’s also important to consider any budgetary needs. Of course, there’s a salary to consider, but you also want to consider if a home office budget should be factored in. Consider paying a certain sum for your new hire to kit out their home office or ensure they have equipment shipped to them. This can also tie into how you advertise the role.
Place a job ad Once you know what you’re looking for, place a job ad for the role.
is a great place to check as it’s one of the best job search sites. It connects to more than 100 job boards so your recruitment ad will reach many sources. The site also automatically screens potential candidates to help you find a good fit, before inviting them to contact you.
Crucially, there’s a checkbox option for if you’re seeking someone to work remotely, saving any hassle for both you and jobseekers. Make sure to focus on selling the one-line sales pitch angle well, so that you instantly stand out in a busy crowd of jobs.
Make sure your digital presence is strong Working remotely can feel a little cold and sterile for potential candidates. It offers many benefits but unless you’re a household name, a candidate is likely to want to know more about you than just your company name. After all, it’s not like they can head to your office buildings and check out what they’re like.
That’s why it’s important to have a strong digital presence. That could be as simple as being very active on social media, demonstrating some of the personality a candidate should expect from your firm. Or it could involve having a significant amount of positive feedback for your company’s online presence, across a variety of platforms and review sites.
Make sure your firm is well-known and has a strong reputation so you appeal to the very best candidates.
Seek out freelancers Depending on your industry, you might actually know who you want to hire. There’s nothing stopping you from reaching out to potential remote workers directly. This could be via their social media profile, their professional website, or by being connected via other mutual ties.
Alternatively, if you want to seek out people you don’t know, you can start by posting a temporary or contract-based offer, giving freelancers and other professionals a chance to sign on before making them a permanent hire. This also gives you the opportunity to see them in action and test their skills, personalities, and work ethic. While freelance platforms are not as great for long-term positions, if you need to find a capable remote worker fast, they’re a good avenue for doing that.
This aligns with one of the greatest benefits of using a major hiring platform such as ZipRecruiter.
 As soon as you post your job ad, the platform reaches out to top candidates, inviting them to apply to the open role. The unique matching technology ensures that the relevant candidates are coming to you, rather than you having to seek out the best of the best.
Hire through your social network It’s likely you or your company have a strong social media presence, which is also a great way to find candidates. It’s a more personable form of networking. If your company operates in a niche field, word of mouth is everything so being able to connect to people with similar skillsets your business is a vital way of getting ahead. It’s possible to create a job ad on LinkedIn but you can also message people you feel would be a good fit for your business.
A strong social presence is also one of the most accessible ways to get your company name out there, especially for small to medium-sized operations with minimal resources. Moreover, building an active and engaging online presence ensures that remote workers see you as an appealing place to apply to.
Follow a great recruitment process The recruitment process for a remote worker is slightly different to other recruitment processes. Crucially, it makes sense to conduct all interviews online or remotely. Once they’ve cleared your vetting process and been screened appropriately, schedule a video call interview with the candidate. Some platforms even have built-in video conferencing tools so you don’t have to take your job interviews to a third-party application. That’s important because it streamlines the recruitment and onboarding process for everyone.
Depending on the role, you may also wish to set the candidate an online task to complete so they can demonstrate their technical skills.
In all cases, make the process as simple to follow as possible and follow best practices for any online conversations. That includes a private environment to talk to the candidate and making sure your microphone and webcam are high-quality.
When conducting the interview, look for qualities that work well outside of a traditional office environment like strong communication skills, extensive knowledge of collaboration tools, and self-motivation.
Hire the candidate Make sure to have all the relevant paperwork (that may vary depending on the country) and you can move onto hiring the chosen candidate. Ensure that all remote work resources are available to them such as collaborative tools, the necessary hardware, peripherals – like extra monitors , keyboards, and mice – and so forth, and there’s no reason why the remote worker will be any different to one sitting near you in the office. Streamlining the experience for everyone involved should be the primary focus.
Editors' Recommendations Hiring managers need to see this: tips to hire top talent in your sector The Best Hiring Apps for Recruiters 10 tips to help you find a new tech role even if you already have a job Where to post jobs for free: 11 of the best free job boards in 2022 How to clean up your keywords and refresh your SEO strategy Business Business Deals Working from a remote location has its share of pleasures and difficulties to be sure, but you'll never get the most out of your remote home office and the challenges will only be more difficult if you and your employees don't have the right equipment. A laptop alone isn't enough for a proper remote work setup, but Dell can help you fix that and save some money in the process.
Whether your circumstances have changed due to recent events or you're just setting up a home office by choice, Dell Technologies has everything you need to get started no matter what line of work you're in. Below, we've put together a couple of guides on how to build a remote office for you and your employees. Whatever your professional duties are -- be they administrative support or creative work like graphic or web design -- Dell Technologies has you covered.
How To Build The Perfect Remote Office for Admin Work Your remote office needs should be fairly straightforward for more traditional administrative support work. Along with a good laptop (which this guide assumes you and your employees already have, but if you don't, or if you need a new one, we've picked a couple out for you), a proper remote workstation needs a monitor, mouse, and keyboard, along with a communal laser printer. We've also included a couple of other productivity enhancers from Dell Technologies, including a headset for calls and voice chats along with a compact docking hub that serves as a handy connection point for all of your devices and components.
Computing As Black Friday quickly approaches and the whole month of November is treated as a sales event, now is the perfect time to pick up a laptop, especially if you missed out during Prime Day. Luckily, HP has some great early Black Friday deals you can take advantage of, and you might also consider Amazon Black Friday laptop deals; whether you want something for work or gaming, there are quite a few options. We've collected some of our favorite deals across the board, but it is always worth checking out these Dell Black Friday deals for alternatives. Everything on this list comes straight from HP, but it's worth checking out Best Buy Black Friday laptop deals and Amazon Black Friday deals for more options.
Best HP Laptop Black Friday Deals HP has a lot of great budget-oriented laptops, so if you're looking for something that won't impact your wallet too much, going for one of these Black Friday laptop deals below is a good idea. That said, keep in mind that their lower-tier laptops tend to have a lot of similarities, with only slight changes in specifications here and there, so it might be worth looking at our laptop buying guide for some help. Even so, we've done our best to pick the deals that we find are the best when balancing costs with specifications.
Computing If you want to buy a Windows laptop but don't really want to spend the hundreds of dollars required to get something good, Chromebooks are the perfect alternative. Because ChromeOS is a much more lightweight operating system, it doesn't eat up as many resources as Windows does. That means that the same hardware under the hood can provide more functionality than it would on a Windows laptop, which helps bring the price down.
To pile on to that, there are some great Black Friday deals you can take advantage of that will bring the price down even further. If you find that you need the full functionality of a laptop, check out our general Best Buy Black Friday laptop deals, or Black Friday laptop deals and Black Friday MacBook deals, for PC and MacOS respectively.
Best HP Chromebook Black Friday Deals Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
