Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Way to Hire Employees Highest Paying Jobs Best Business Laptops What is RingCentral? Best VPN Best Job Search Sites Home Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? How to post a job on Google and hire the best candidates By Jennifer Allen Close In recent times, Google has made it even easier for companies to successfully advertise their job ads online. With Google for Jobs, potential candidates can easily check out the dedicated job search tool and see exactly what’s out there across a series of popular job search boards and sites. While it’s possible to use your company’s website to advertise a job and potentially feature on Google, the more effective solution is to use a job board that is integrated with Google for Jobs. Your ad and others will feature at the top of the search results, instantly giving your candidates key insight. Interested in learning more? We’ve picked out the seven best ways to post a job on Google so you can seek out the best future employee for your company.
Best Overall: ZipRecruiter LinkedIn Indeed Career Builder Monster Glassdoor Wellfound Best Overall: ZipRecruiter Image used with permission by copyright holder Besides offering integration within Google so your ads will be more prominently displayed, ZipRecruiter is also one of the most reliable names around when it comes to finding jobs, as well as putting out ads for new hires. Placing an opening on ZipRecruiter doesn’t just place it on Google for Jobs. It also connects to more than 100 job boards so your job listing is shown across a huge network of places where someone might be seeking out a new opportunity or career. That saves you the time in manually creating job listings at every source, while also giving you the best chance of finding the ideal candidate for you.
ZipRecruiter saves time elsewhere too. It automatically screens potential hires that are a good fit. From there, the strong candidate is encouraged to contact you directly so you don’t have to wait for them to find your ad amongst a myriad of options. The process is conducted via both email and mobile notifications so they won’t miss out on a chance to see your listing fast.
Once a list of strong candidates has been collated, you can then sort and screen applicants depending on your needs. There’s a plethora of filters to narrow things down. When creating a job ad, you also get a similar wealth of options with more than 500 customizable job templates to get you started with screening questions that help you rule out issues before you get to the interview stage. In many cases, employers find excellent candidates within just one day of posting their listing so this is a great way of finding the best candidate fast. If you’re looking for the widest net to cast, you can’t go wrong with how well ZipRecruiter works.
LinkedIn Image used with permission by copyright holder More commonly regarded as a professional networking site, LinkedIn has also become a great place for finding new hires. Fortunately, any job ads listed here are also displayed on Google. One of the strongest things about LinkedIn is that as a networking site in the conventional sense, you can quickly discover if new employees are recommended by colleagues and contacts you already know. That’s particularly useful if you work in a complex or niche field where specialisms are even more important than usual.
LinkedIn requires a little more effort than the average job site as it’s a smart idea to have an active presence to learn more about hires and see what’s out there, but there are plenty of benefits to gain from this approach. Posting a listing is free with the paid service LinkedIn Recruiter allowing for an unlimited number of them, as well as more advanced search filters. By paying, you also gain access to LinkedIn’s internal messaging service, InMail, which is convenient for getting in contact with people you’re not connected to. It’s also possible to pay for the Job Slots section so your job ad is placed at the top of search results and within personalized job seeker emails so if your candidate has missed out on seeing you on Google, you’ll show up here.
The service also recommends appropriate candidates for you, and it prioritizes the ones most likely to respond to your ad. Crucially, it all forms together to make LinkedIn a more personal service than your standard job board while still giving you a wide reach via Google and other integrations. It’s particularly ideal for seeking out more experienced recruits due to the nature and reputation of LinkedIn so if you need someone established in their field, this should be a place to consider.
Indeed Image used with permission by copyright holder Indeed is one of the biggest job search sites in the world. Much of that success is thanks to it being entirely free to create an account to post a basic job opening. It’s possible to add a simple description along with the skills you’re looking for, and go from there. However, it’s worth paying, as you can sponsor job listings to attract more attention for your company as well as gain instant access to any strong candidates that Indeed has identified as matching your needs. By doing so, you can invite them to apply instead of having to wait for them to find your ad. Of course, Google integration will help with making sure you’re more easily spotted among the many other job listings out there.
Indeed offers more than just simple ways to post ads. It also provides an automated process so you can instantly schedule interviews without having to think too deeply about scheduling conflicts. It’s a great time saver. You can easily conduct virtual interviews via the website or app itself, further saving time and effort. There are extensive filters too for when you’re searching through its database, while a company review section is perfect for highlighting positive comments your current employees have about your firm. After all, word of mouth and positive feedback is the best way of encouraging someone to entice others into applying to your company.
While Indeed can get expensive depending on the options you choose, being able to start with a free ad is a great way of seeing who’s out here. The site and app’s extensive functionality makes it incredibly convenient and while Indeed is the largest and most-used job search site around, you are guaranteed to be noticed. That’s even more the case when you consider the job on Google integration.
Career Builder Image used with permission by copyright holder Another popular option, Career Builder, has over 80 million resumes. Even better for many companies, it tends to focus on high-end candidates so if you’re looking to fill a senior role, this is a good place to list your job ad. Its underlying software is used by firms like Amazon, Hilton, Wells Fargo, and many other Fortune 500 companies so it’s well-suited for highly professional roles. Career Builder offers a Talent Discovery Platform service so you can streamline the candidates available with automatic matches. Before you get to that stage, you can also rely on the site’s pre-written job descriptions that are powered by AI to ensure you’re noticed by the candidates you want most.
Career Builder throws in many useful extras too. For instance, you can gain more insight about each candidate than just their resume. It’s also possible to see salaries your competitors are offering for similar positions so you know exactly how to look more eye-catching to your ideal candidate. There’s a Social Referral system so your existing employees can easily share your vacancies on their social networks, and that way, you’ll receive applications from well-recommended candidates.
It’s possible to receive up to 25 alerts a day when a new candidate is matched with your role, so you’ll always feel in control. You can also send your listings to targeted groups to see if you can attract attention from key people. It’s even possible to set up a branded career website or devise in-person or virtual hiring events via Career Builder. The site only allows for single job posts to be active for 30 days so this is a more short-term recruitment endeavor than some options, but it’s extensive in how it helps you search and connect during this time.
Monster Image used with permission by copyright holder Calling Monster well-established is an understatement. It’s one of the oldest job sites around but it remains a good option even despite newer competition. Google integration means your job ad will be easily sought out by potential candidates but Monster goes much further than that. It includes thousands of job descriptions so you can be inspired on how to design your listing, even if you’re not sure where to begin. It’s straightforward to use too although oftentimes, job listings don’t offer much in-depth information so this is the perfect time to carefully craft your ad to stand out from the crowd. In particular, you can point out benefits adjacent to your salary range so that amongst the huge database, your job ad is most prominent for clarity.
Thanks to Monster’s reputation, it offers a steady range of both blue and white-collar positions so whatever your business type, you’ll be covered here. Monster also ensures that it emails your ad to candidates that are a good match. From there, you get candidate rankings and scores so you can quickly see who is likely to be a good fit for your business. Through the candidate dashboard, you can easily track your listings and searches with extensive filtering options. It’s also possible to automatically send follow-up messages to candidates if you’re keen to be proactive at all times.
Granted, if you use something like ZipRecruiter, your post is automatically added to Monster so it could be better to pursue this route, but Monster is still worth checking out. It’s easy to use and offers a clear pricing policy so it’s best suited to smaller businesses on tighter budgets, but still keen to find the perfect candidate for their firm.
Glassdoor Image used with permission by copyright holder A little different from the rest, Glassdoor is part job site and part company review outlet. It collects reviews and salary information from over a million different companies. It allows employees to see exactly what they should expect from a firm. For you, that means a great opportunity to showcase what an excellent employer you are. Alongside that, Glassdoor offers over nine million job listings so you can endeavor to stand out from the crowd.
Besides posting a job listing, you can also add details on why someone would want to work at your company. In conjunction with your ad, Glassdoor includes an overall rating for your company along with detailed scores for salary, culture, career progression, and work/life balance. It truly gives potential candidates key insight into what to expect when working for you. Candidates can add their company preferences allowing you to check them and see if they’re a good fit for what you’re looking for. It’s a little more personal than relying on cold resumes that only get to the basics of someone’s career so far.
Of course, you’ll need to make sure you have a solid reputation in your field but you can still respond to reviews that have been posted. It’s also possible to add information about your Diversity and Inclusion initiatives to help encourage candidates. Extensive analysis is available too for industry reports, audience targeting insights, and even sending company updates to target audiences. It’s a bit more complex than your standard job search site so probably best suited for larger companies, but you can’t really put a price on having a good reputation among jobseekers. It’s worth putting the time in, plus you’ll still feature on Google too.
Wellfound Image used with permission by copyright holder Previously known as AngelList, Wellfound focuses on smaller startup companies as well as those looking to work for one. That might not sound exciting to you but in the past, AngelList/Wellfound has been used by Peloton, Plaid, NerdWallet, DoorDash, and Roblox so this isn’t a small-fry startup job search website. It offers more than 8 million candidates from around the world, all keen to be involved in the dynamic and fast-paced startup scene.
It’s a good place for businesses seeking out remote or freelance workers. There are extensive filters so you can look for candidates based on their time zone, specific skill set, or nearly anything else that might occur to you. While there may be fewer ads on the site than some of the bigger names above, that means this is your chance to stand out when seeking out a candidate who thinks outside the box more than the competition may provide. You’ll need to be willing to list salaries and equity options early on as well as list how much investment you’ve raised, so it won’t suit all firms, but it’s a positive take on job seeking that’s often excessively private and restrictive. You can even look up candidates based on their ideal workplace so it’s perfect if personality is as important as skillsets in your industry.
Wellfound does have some caveats. Of course, it’s squarely focused on startups so if this isn’t you, you may wish to look elsewhere. It also focuses on distinctly white-collar roles like marketing, software development, design, and other tech-related or adjacent fields. Again, this may not suit everyone, but if that’s your specialism, it’s hard to fault.
Find Candidates Now Editors' Recommendations The original Google Pixel Watch is a great buy while it’s $80 off Not interested in the Google Pixel 8? Save over $200 on the Pixel 7 Best Google Pixel 7a deals: Get Google’s budget phone for free Best iPhone 15 deals: How to get Apple’s latest iPhone for free Best Google Pixel 7 deals: Can you get the phone for free? Business Business Computing For the best laptop deals focused on business users, look no further than the selection we have below. In all cases, you're getting high-quality business laptop deals at great prices. They're ideal for self-employed people who need a reliable device, along with small businesses looking to expand their arsenal. Read on while we take you through what's out there at the moment.
Dell XPS 13 -- $599, was $799 The Dell XPS 13 is the company's answer to the MacBook Air. It's highly portable, looks great, and is ideal for working productively on the move, which is exactly why it's one of the best laptops around. This particular model has a 12th-generation Intel Core i5 processor, 8GB of memory and 256GB of SSD storage. One of the bigger highlights is its 13.4-inch full HD+ screen with a 1920 x 1200 resolution, anti-glare properties, and 500 nits of brightness. It's the thinnest and lightest 13-inch XPS around while still achieving a battery life of up to 12 hours and having neat extras like a backlit keyboard.
Mobile It is time. Time for a phone upgrade and a new, hopefully more responsive device. If it's been a while, or you haven't been paying much attention to the smartphone market, you're in for a shock. You may find yourself overwhelmed with all the options that are available to you from brands like Apple, Samsung, Google, and more. To help you determine the best smartphone for you, we've gathered the top phone deals that you can shop right now across different retailers. You're going to have to decide quickly though, because the discounts attached to these devices usually don't last long. Proceed with your purchase as soon as possible so that you don't miss out on the low prices.
Apple iPhone 15 -- Free with Boost Mobile, was $830 Smart Home Looking for great Google Home and Google Nest deals? Best Buy has a fantastic bundle deal for anyone looking to buy the Google Nest Hub and some form of Google Nest Cam. In all cases, you save $40 on the bundle deal with the cheapest bundle including the Nest Hub and one Google Nest Cam (wired) for $160 instead of $200, or the Nest Hub with a Google Nest Cam wireless 2-pack for $390 instead of $430. We're here to tell you more about what your options are. Here's what you need to know so you can make an informed decision before the deal ends soon.
Why you should buy the Google Nest Hub and Google Nest Cam Google makes some of the best smart home devices around. The Google Nest Hub (2nd generation) is a great starting point for your smart home plans. It's simple to use and easily connects to all your Nest speakers and displays. You can use it to show and control all your connected devices with a tap or by using Google Assistant to get things done with your voice.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
