Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Way to Hire Employees Highest Paying Jobs Best Business Laptops What is RingCentral? Best VPN Best Job Search Sites Home Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Take the Stress Out of Managing Your Business Taxes with QuickBooks Online By Briley Kenney Close This content was produced in partnership with Intuit.
QuickBooks Online: Setting You Up to Succeed You Deserve a Stress-Free Tax Time Get the Help You Need Now with QuickBooks Online Whether this is your first year filing taxes for your small business, or this has been a longstanding task, it’s not something you have to do alone — we’ll get to where you can find help in a bit. The entire process can be complex, intimidating, and time-consuming, especially if you’re handling all of the accounting and filing manually. What forms are you supposed to use? What documents and resources do you need to complete the filing? Are you eligible for any deductions? You see when filing personal taxes, there are a lot of different tools you can fall back on, like Intuit’s well-known Turbotax suite. But things are a little different when you’re filing as a business. There’s a lot more to think about, such as profits and losses, sales taxes, property taxes, excise taxes, employment taxes, and even self-employment taxes. Where do you start? Don’t worry if you’re overwhelmed because Intuit has your back, and QuickBooks Online is precisely the tool, and support you need. For starters, you can begin reading about what’s required of you, and Intuit has an excellent library of business tax guides and resources you can use. If you don’t know where to start, or what you should even be doing, definitely give them a read. For now, we’re going to discuss QuickBooks, and QuickBooks Payroll, to explore how they can help with business taxes both during the actual filing process and throughout the year leading up to the next tax season. Listen up GenZ and Millennial entrepreneurs, this one’s for you because business tax management with QuickBooks is simple and stress-free.
QuickBooks Online: Setting You Up to Succeed Image used with permission by copyright holder Waiting until the last minute to get your accounting and books in order is not the best approach. But when you’re faced with a seemingly insurmountable task, what’s the best way to get it done? Baby steps. You dive in and take it little by little, day by day until eventually, the task is well on its way or near complete. It’s the same idea here with business taxes. Rather than waiting until the end of the year and just before tax season to get everything in order, you can use QuickBooks’ excellent tools to keep everything organized and tracked throughout the year.
QuickBooks makes it easy to bring your books up to date, and keep them updated, categorize your transactions, reconcile outstanding or maintainable accounts, generate detailed expense and financial reports, and more. You can also handle receipt capture, snapping photos of receipts and expenses right from your phone and uploading them to the QuickBooks platform. That helps you stay aligned no matter where you are, across all of your devices, including mobile and desktop. Most entrepreneurs are always on the move so it makes a lot of sense to have a toolset you can access, update, and manage from anywhere. As you can see, business tax management with QuickBooks is pretty convenient.
You Deserve a Stress-Free Tax Time Image used with permission by copyright holder Again, waiting until the end of the year, and just before tax season, to start organizing your business finances and getting your books in order, is going to make for one extremely anxiety-induced experience. There’s really no need for it, especially when you can get access to tools like QuickBooks Online, or QuickBooks Payroll — which even helps you manage employee-related expenses and payouts. They sync together, making the entire financial process that much simpler. Yes, you can hire an accountant to do it all for you, but the chances are, most small businesses don’t have the budget to make that a reality, which means you’re stuck doing it all yourself. You deserve a stress-free tax time, and it’s much easier to go in with those books in order.
Here are just some of the business-related finance tasks that QuickBooks can help with: Maximizing and applying tax deductions Tracking mileage and fuel expenses Managing cash flow Sending product, service, or expense estimates Managing 1099 contractors and freelancers Paying business-related bills Tracking time spent or inventory Understanding project profitability Invoicing, sending, and accepting payments Tracking income, expenses, profits, and more Finance app integrations with PayPal, Square, Shopify, and more At any time, you can benefit from knowledgeable agents and tax experts, as well. If you have questions, need some help figuring things out, or just want someone to check your work, that’s all possible with QuickBooks Online. You may sit down at your desk, or in your work area by yourself, but you’re never alone when filing or trying to organize your business finances.
Get the Help You Need Now with QuickBooks Online Now is the perfect time to sign up for QuickBooks Online if you haven’t already, for several reasons, the first of which is, its tax season. But also, new customers can save up to 50% by signing up now, while the current deal is active. Where normally you’d pay $30 per month for the Simple Start plan, you can lock in $15 per month for your first three months, saving you about $45 in total. Alternatively, the Plus plan — which offers a few more features — would be $85 per month, but is instead $42 per month for your first three months, saving you about $129. Don’t waste too much time deciding because taxes are due soon, if you haven’t already filed, and this deal won’t last forever. It’s one of the best decisions you can make for your small business finances.
Editors' Recommendations QuickBooks Free Trial: Get a month of accounting for free This Tool Can Seriously Help You Grow Your Small Business No W-2s? 2023 is the year of QuickBooks Online Level up your company’s social media strategy with Sprout Social Start your business on the right foot with QuickBooks Online Business Business Deals This content was produced in partnership with Dashlane.
Picture this: You're trying to log in to a service, but you forgot your username because it's unique and doesn't use your email address. Unfortunately, you don't remember your password either. First, you'll need to recover your username and then go through the motions to change your password. But here's the thing: After you log in with your new password, there's no guarantee you'll remember it again a day later or longer. There should be a better way to manage and recover your passwords.
Cybersecurity, or rather the security of your data, is something that concerns everyone. One of the best ways to protect yourself, personally and professionally, is to make sure that you're using secure passwords, along with two-factor authentication wherever applicable. Also, you should never reuse passwords across accounts, which is something that, admittedly, can be quite challenging to do. Keeping track of all your passwords because you likely have so many online accounts is not just troublesome, it's downright impossible. There is just no way to keep tabs on all of that information without writing it down, typing it out, or recording it somewhere.
Deals A great font makes a huge difference when it comes to capturing people's attention, whether it's a potential customer or making an internal training exercise look more interesting. With countless numbers of fonts out there, we know how tough it is to keep them organized and well managed. That's why we're big fans of Connect Fonts. Considered to be the next evolutionary step from Suitcase Fusion -- an industrial-strength font management app -- Connect Fonts is both a desktop-based and cloud-based font manager that offers a wealth of options to help you keep on top of your growing font collection. If you're an avid user of graphic design software or even the best free drawing software, Connect Fonts is going to make your life so much easier.
Start Free Trial OK, so Font management software might not sound interesting but, secretly, you're going to be thrilled at what this offers you. In no time, you'll be telling everyone in your industry how useful Connect Fonts is because it's that good. It's really easy to use with both the desktop and cloud-based applications being a breeze to work your way through. And when we say work, well, not really. Instead, it's simple to find the font you may want and will actually help you feel more inspired.
An intuitive search feature makes sure of that. With extensive granular search options, you can use abstract search terms like adjectives or genres. That way, you can find things in a more natural way than having to think like a computer would. It also has customizable tags so it's much easier to find what you're looking for in a way that makes sense to you. For instance, do you want to assign some particular fonts to a project you're working on? Add a tag marking them for that project. The same goes if you want to keep aside certain fonts for particular clients, making it very simple to find what you're looking for at a later date. Connect Fonts even offers up a very cool font pairing suggestion tool so you can instantly see which fonts complement each other well.
Deals One of the best CRM software tools around, Zoho, CRM is consistently a leader in the customer relationship management space and an essential addition for any business looking to improve their practices.
Zoho CRM offers all you could need from a good CRM suite, from live customer chat, a chatbot, easy sales and marketing pipeline management, and advanced customer analytics. Even better, right now, if you sign up via the link below, you gain $100 Wallet Credits for your account.
Sign Up Now To help you understand even more about why your business needs to switch to Zoho CRM, we've picked out five key reasons it's worth your time. Read on while we guide you through them.
Canvas Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
