Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Way to Hire Employees Highest Paying Jobs Best Business Laptops What is RingCentral? Best VPN Best Job Search Sites Home Deals ONLYOFFICE is the online software suite your business needs By Lucas Coll Close Image used with permission by copyright holder This content was produced in partnership with ONLYOFFICE.
Whether you work and collaborate with your colleagues from home, run a small business, or manage a team of employees (or maybe you do some combination of those), having good collaborative software is vital — and in many cases, free apps like Google Docs don’t cut it. ONLYOFFICE is a more comprehensive cloud-based office productivity suite used by millions around the globe. And for a limited time, Digital Trends readers can sign up for the Business plan at a 20% discount. Here’s what you need to know about ONLYOFFICE, including its new OFORMs feature, and what it can do for you.
Sign Up Now Cloud-based software is hardly new. Google almost single-handedly revolutionized how people work and collaborate online when it released Google Docs and Google Drive, but as the world has grown increasingly digitized and internet-connected — especially in the past two years — these rather simple free apps haven’t quite kept up with the growing needs of professionals and small businesses.
Image used with permission by copyright holder ONLYOFFICE provides a more complete and full-featured cloud-based app suite and is a great alternative to Google Docs and even to paid software with online features, such as Microsoft Office. In a nutshell, it’s an open-source office package for text documents, spreadsheets, presentations, and fillable forms. With ONLYOFFICE, you can easily create a collaborative cloud environment for a team of any size or create a virtual workspace on-premises by integrating the editors with a document management system or file-sharing platform. The list of available integration options includes such well-known solutions as SharePoint, Nextcloud, ownCloud, Redmine, Alfresco, Confluence, Nuxeo, Moodle, and so on.
ONLYOFFICE offers all the must-have tools that everyone likes to find in office software. You can easily edit documents of any type due to the highest compatibility with Microsoft Office formats and support of other popular formats such as OpenDocument.
What makes ONLYOFFICE outstanding is its collaborative capabilities. Apart from the features that one can find in Google Docs or Microsoft Online — for example, version history and controls, tracking changes, commenting, and user tagging — ONLYOFFICE also offers two co-editing modes. The Fast mode is established by default and allows you to see all the edits in real time. For more private editing, you can switch to the Strict mode, and no one will see what you are typing until you click the save button. While collaborating online, you can communicate with others via Telegram or make video and audio calls using the Jitsi plugins.
One of the best new features of the software is ONLYOFFICE Forms. Introduced with ONLYOFFICE version 7.0, OFORMs allow you to create forms with various types of fields (including text, checkboxes, and drop-down lists, among others) that can be filled out by other people. You can create and send contracts, applications, and similar documents to clients or employees, to name just a few common use cases.
ONLYOFFICE forms are designed to help you drastically cut down on time wasted typing up documents for other users to fill out, allowing you to streamline your workflow if it involves a lot of form-filling and management of electronic documents. OFORMs are also compatible with both Microsoft Office content controls and Adobe Forms, and your created forms can be exported as PDF files that recipients can edit and fill out.
Another of our favorite things about ONLYOFFICE is that it interfaces smoothly with other enterprise software. If you already use services like Microsoft Office, OneDrive, LibreOffice, Google Docs, or Dropbox, then you can import and share documents between these and ONLYOFFICE, and you can even turn Microsoft .docx files into OFORMs. If you own or manage a server system, ONLYOFFICE can be installed on it as well.
The ONLYOFFICE suite comes with a free app for the most popular operating systems, including Windows, Linux, and MacOS. The desktop version is identical to the online version and offers almost the same set of tools. You can locally open and edit Word files, Excel spreadsheets, PowerPoint presentations, and even fillable forms. As in the case of online editors, the desktop app allows you to create forms from scratch or use DOCX templates. Inserting various field types, changing their properties, saving to PDF or OFORM formats for online work — all of this is possible in the desktop app.
The free ONLYOFFICE mobile apps for Android and iOS also support fillable forms. You can open and fill out forms on the go, but you can’t create new ones or edit them on your mobile device.
There’s a basic free package available if you want to give ONLYOFFICE a spin, and this includes a free trial for the upgraded Business plan. However, if you already know you need a more comprehensive online software solution, then through April 30, Digital Trends readers can sign up for a one-year Business subscription and get a 20% discount with the checkout code DIGITALTRENDS20.
 OFORMs are available to all ONLYOFFICE users, so you can take advantage of this new feature even with the free plan.
Sign Up Now Editors' Recommendations Hulu with Live TV Free Trial: Everything you need to know Squarespace Free Trial: Build and host your website for free Is there a Chegg free trial? Here’s what you need to know Need a new laptop? This MacBook Air can be yours for $555 Best Apple Watch Deals: Put the smartwatch on your wrist from just $129 Business Business Computing Some of the best desktop computer deals at the moment come, predictably, from Dell. In particular, if you're in need of new business desktops for your office, you're in luck. Today, you can buy the Dell OptiPlex Micro Form Factor for $969 saving you $520 off the regular price of $1,489. Ideally suited for business use with some excellent specs, we're here to look in more detail at what it offers while it's down to this great price. Alternatively, just tap the buy button to get straight onto buying it.
Why you should buy the Dell OptiPlex Micro Form Factor Dell makes some of the best desktop computers out there, and that certainly extends to its business range. The Dell OptiPlex Micro Form Factor has a 13th-generation Intel Core i5 processor, along with 16GB of memory and 512GB of SSD storage. It also comes with Windows 11 Pro preinstalled and a highly capable Wi-Fi 6E wireless LAN card to ensure you won't have to worry about connection dropouts.
Computing For the best laptop deals focused on business users, look no further than the selection we have below. In all cases, you're getting high-quality business laptop deals at great prices. They're ideal for self-employed people who need a reliable device, along with small businesses looking to expand their arsenal. Read on while we take you through what's out there at the moment.
Dell XPS 13 -- $599, was $799 The Dell XPS 13 is the company's answer to the MacBook Air. It's highly portable, looks great, and is ideal for working productively on the move, which is exactly why it's one of the best laptops around. This particular model has a 12th-generation Intel Core i5 processor, 8GB of memory and 256GB of SSD storage. One of the bigger highlights is its 13.4-inch full HD+ screen with a 1920 x 1200 resolution, anti-glare properties, and 500 nits of brightness. It's the thinnest and lightest 13-inch XPS around while still achieving a battery life of up to 12 hours and having neat extras like a backlit keyboard.
Deals So, you’ve just bought yourself a shiny new iPhone 15. It’s amazing. It does everything you want. It looks great. And ouch, it was expensive. Those last two points are particularly important when it comes to thinking about how you want to protect your new phone. You really don’t want to skimp on safety. The best-case scenario when you drop it or bump it into something is that you only scratch or dent the beautiful exterior. The worst case? You’ve just utterly destroyed your new phone, and now you’re scrambling to remember if you have the proper insurance coverage.
Cue TORRAS, a game changer for your iPhone’s safety. There aren’t many cases on the market that can protect from a reasonable drop of about twelve feet. TORRAS’ cases can, and its iPhone 15 cases feature the equivalent of an airbag built-in. They’re so good at handling a drop that they can even survive falling out of an airplane. Seriously, and we’ll prove that soon. For now, just know that TORRAS cases offer remarkable innovation at peak levels. Before we dive in, TORRAS is offering a 20% discount on new case orders when you use code Trends20 at checkout.
Shop Now TORRAS sells a number of superior iPhone 15 cases, and we adore them. Here’s why you will love them too: Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
