Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Way to Hire Employees Highest Paying Jobs Best Business Laptops What is RingCentral? Best VPN Best Job Search Sites Home Deals How RingCentral helps you unify communications to build a customer-centric business By Briley Kenney Close These days, there’s a lot of talk about what you should and shouldn’t do as a business to woo new customers and keep existing ones happy. Just read any one of the many marketing-friendly guides out there and you’ll see a host of tips about improving your customer service, adding new features, beefing up product quality, and so on. Indeed, these are all good changes to make, and they lead to a more successful business overall, but they have one thing in common, and that’s why they make such a difference. They are customer-centric. They put the customer’s needs and experience first while improving the general experience for everyone else.
Why do unified communications matter? Where’s the proof? Unified Communications: Message, video, phone, and contact center Customer-centric companies are 60% more profitable than those that aren’t. But that’s such a broad term, and it could reference so many different facets of a business from customer service to product delivery and personalization. Where is the best place to start, and what should be a core focus? It all boils down to creating and delivering, a seamless, connected experience for employees and customers alike. In other words, “customer-centric” can be achieved today by deploying an integrated unified communications as a service (UCaaS) and contact center as a service (CCaaS) solution like RingCentral.
 Wait, what? Slow down.
Why do unified communications matter? Image used with permission by copyright holder Think about it like this. Customers, or people rather, no longer spend their time on a single platform. Even Facebook is sharing a piece of the pie with other social networks these days, like Instagram, Whatsapp, Twitter, TikTok, and more. It means that most people are no longer content with a single communications channel. They want to be able to interact across different channels, but not just that, they want their experiences to matter and to carry over between them. They don’t want to start talking on one platform, move to another, and then have to reboot — explaining everything all from the beginning. Chances are, your customer service team doesn’t want to deal with that either. Your employees want to follow along with the customer’s journey and meet them on whatever platform they’re using. Cue UCaaS and CCaaS platforms, combined as one, to deliver the best-connected experience for everyone, including customers and employees.
When combined, these platforms can help build confidence with customers, deliver a top-notch experience(s), connect your business communications and call center activities, as well as boost value and ROI across business or customer communications. Finally, the tools also improve communication with customers by putting you, and your team, in the right place, at the right time. In fact, merging UCaaS and CCaaS creates something so valuable, proponents have seen the following results, according to a RingCentral and Metrigy report : A 56% increase in customer satisfaction ratings.
Reductions of 19% in operational costs.
Another 23.4% reduction in monthly per-agent spending on licenses.
Where’s the proof? Image used with permission by copyright holder These are some bold claims, and while it’s not difficult to figure out that being a customer-centric business is beneficial, there’s no hard evidence that unified communications can make that happen, at least not yet. There are four major benefits that RingCentral’s unified communications — UCaaS and CCaaS — can provide.
They help build confidence with customers by empowering your customer service team and supporting CRM integrations.
The tools combine business and call center communications to help solve customers’ problems faster and better and keep agents in the know.
Unified communications deliver high value and exceptional ROI results across business and customer communications, by supporting better resources, smarter experiences, and cross-collaboration.
With RingCentral, customer service teams can meet with customers in the right place, at the right time, across a variety of platforms and services — from phone calls and video meetings to live chat and social media.
A prime example is Gempler’s success story.
 The nationwide supplier of farms, Gempler, experienced high growth in 2019, however, their ordinary telephony solution could no longer support their needs and growing demands. Their team was relatively small, at about 60 agents, so they needed to choose something that would accommodate them. They landed on RingCentral’s UCaaS and CCaaS solution, making it the single vendor for all their business and customer communication activities. Gempler’s agents grew to be 28% faster, which has led to a 70% reduction in abandoned support calls, and a drop in response times to email from 14.5 hours down to 6 hours. They’re faster, better, leaner, and more successful! Gempler isn’t the only team that’s seen success after implementing RingCentral’s solutions. There are many others , including the University of Radiology, virtual assistant provider Pheonix Virtual Solutions, Goosehead Insurance, and more.
Unified Communications: Message, video, phone, and contact center Customers are the lifeblood of your business, and they should be treated as such. They drive revenue, profits, and in many ways, the success of your marketing and advertising initiatives. If they respond positively, the benefits and rewards are limitless. The best way to appeal to them is by developing a customer-centric team that puts them first and makes them a priority. Deliver a unified communications experience that merges all potential channels and platforms and empowers meaningful conversations, regardless of where they’re happening.
Wondering where you should start or where to go for more information? RingCentral is an award-winning provider of UCaaS and CCaaS solutions, and they can help you up your communications game fast — faster than ever before.
Editors' Recommendations RingCentral MVP is the VoIP service a growing business needs Business Business Computing As Black Friday quickly approaches and the whole month of November is treated as a sales event, now is the perfect time to pick up a laptop, especially if you missed out during Prime Day. Luckily, HP has some great early Black Friday deals you can take advantage of, and you might also consider Amazon Black Friday laptop deals; whether you want something for work or gaming, there are quite a few options. We've collected some of our favorite deals across the board, but it is always worth checking out these Dell Black Friday deals for alternatives. Everything on this list comes straight from HP, but it's worth checking out Best Buy Black Friday laptop deals and Amazon Black Friday deals for more options.
Best HP Laptop Black Friday Deals HP has a lot of great budget-oriented laptops, so if you're looking for something that won't impact your wallet too much, going for one of these Black Friday laptop deals below is a good idea. That said, keep in mind that their lower-tier laptops tend to have a lot of similarities, with only slight changes in specifications here and there, so it might be worth looking at our laptop buying guide for some help. Even so, we've done our best to pick the deals that we find are the best when balancing costs with specifications.
Computing If you want to buy a Windows laptop but don't really want to spend the hundreds of dollars required to get something good, Chromebooks are the perfect alternative. Because ChromeOS is a much more lightweight operating system, it doesn't eat up as many resources as Windows does. That means that the same hardware under the hood can provide more functionality than it would on a Windows laptop, which helps bring the price down.
To pile on to that, there are some great Black Friday deals you can take advantage of that will bring the price down even further. If you find that you need the full functionality of a laptop, check out our general Best Buy Black Friday laptop deals, or Black Friday laptop deals and Black Friday MacBook deals, for PC and MacOS respectively.
Best HP Chromebook Black Friday Deals Computing With the big event coming up fast, we're spotting some early Black Friday deals already. There are some great Black Friday laptop deals, on gaming laptops in particular if you simply can't wait any longer to make a purchase. Don't forget to check out the Amazon Black Friday laptop deals for some gaming options, too. Below we've picked out some awesome Black Friday gaming laptop deals with something for nearly every budget and including all the biggest names in the field. These come straight from the manufacturer and from retailer sales, like general Best Buy Black Friday laptop deals and more specific Best Buy Black Friday gaming laptop deals. Let's guide you through the deals now.
Today's Best Black Friday Gaming Laptop Deals HP Victus 15 (Intel) -- $550, was $900 The HP Victus 15 is one of the cheapest gaming laptops in the market, but it still provides decent performance with the latest 13th-generation Intel Core i5 processor, Nvidia GeForce RTX 3050 graphics card, and 8GB of RAM. With these specifications, you can play today's most popular games, but you'll have to go with low to medium graphic settings for the more demanding titles. The gaming laptop is also equipped with a 15.6-inch Full HD screen with a 144Hz refresh rate, and a 512GB SSD with Windows 11 Home pre-loaded. Check out other HP laptop Black Friday deals and Amazon Black Friday deals if you're interested in more Victus options.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
