Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Way to Hire Employees Highest Paying Jobs Best Business Laptops What is RingCentral? Best VPN Best Job Search Sites Home Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? 10 tips to help you find a new tech role even if you already have a job By Briley Kenney Close Image used with permission by copyright holder This content was produced in partnership with ZipRecruiter.
1. Define what you’re looking for 2. Define your key disqualifiers 3. Announce your job search publicly within your network 4. Update your resume and professional presence 5. Certify your skills 6. Create an elevator pitch 7. Go to networking events 8. Look in the right places 9. Enlist help 10. Be patient Keep these tips in mind to find a new tech role There’s no question, we’re in a strange market. There are many opportunities out there, but some of the bigger tech companies are laying people off due to the troubled economy. Some have even imposed a hiring freeze, but that doesn’t mean you can’t find openings in a tech field. Quite the opposite is true, actually, especially if you know where to look, and more importantly, how to prepare. It doesn’t matter whether you already have a job or not, as it may be time to move on and advance your career, or simply look for a much better opportunity. Whatever the case, preparing for new roles, updating your resume, and practicing your interviewing skills, are just the beginning. There’s a lot to do, and it can certainly be easy to overlook critical steps. That’s precisely why we’ve put together this guide, detailing 10 tips that can help you find a new tech role, prepare for potential openings, and kickstart your job search journey. They’re relevant if you already have a job, but also if you’re looking for gainful employment altogether.
1. Define what you’re looking for The tech industry is varied, and there are a lot of roles and opportunities, some even being iterations of larger roles — like WordPress developer versus software developer, or UX designer versus UI designer. Maybe you’re looking for a better opportunity than what you have currently, or maybe you want to find that diamond in the rough. Whatever your plan, you won’t recognize a good opportunity if you don’t already know what you’re looking for. In other words, take some time to sit down and think about what it is you want.
What constitutes an ideal career path for you? Consider your desired salary range, the type of work you’re willing to do, whether you’re okay with branching out, if you’re willing to relocate, what kind of benefits you need, or want, and much more. This is the time to decide if you want to stick with remote or hybrid opportunities versus traditional in-office roles. You might also explore your skillset to understand what unorthodox roles you qualify for. There could be other career paths or opportunities you didn’t even realize existed.
2. Define your key disqualifiers What are bad qualities that you dislike or don’t want to see in a potential opportunity? Some tech roles will be way out in left field, and may not even be a good fit for your knowledge, expertise, and skills. Are there verifiable red flags or pain points that you know you want to avoid? There are a lot of buzzwords and phrases used in job postings that can help you suss out undesirable positions.
You can also ask questions during interviews, such as whether or not a role is being backfilled, if it’s a new position, and how many people have passed through recently — giving you an idea of turnover or churn rates. Just as with step one, defining both what you’re looking for, and what you don’t want to see, will set you up nicely to identify and locate the best roles for you. Both of these steps are worth doing before you start searching for opportunities.
3. Announce your job search publicly within y our network Image used with permission by copyright holder To find a new tech role, you need to start building connections right away. Put an announcement out into the universe that you’re considering new work. A quick post on LinkedIn letting your network know you’re open to new roles is a good start. You can also update your profile on job search sites like Indeed, ZipRecruiter, and others, to indicate that you’re currently seeking a job and open to new roles.
It’s worth noting that we don’t live in a perfect world, and sometimes making it publicly known that you’re seeking employment elsewhere can create some tension at your current job. But the alternative is keeping the search hush-hush, which is not a great idea anyway and certainly limits your potential opportunities — the more people that know you’re searching the more likely an opportunity is to come to you.
4. Update your resume and professional presence Of course, updating your resume is one of the first things you should do before applying to new positions, but it’s also not the only part of your professional presence that needs a makeover. If you have a professional portfolio or website, consider updating that, too, not just with new information but visually, especially if it’s been a few years.
Consider taking and uploading new headshots, updating your skills and profiles, and adding any new work history to your resume. Some other portals that may need updating include your website, LinkedIn profile, additional social profiles, heck, and maybe even your email signature.
5. Certify your skills Every professional picks up auxiliary skills during their career from web development and CMS experience to office tools, cloud services, and beyond. Even if you don’t work in a tech-heavy role now, there is a lot of tech you’re probably using throughout your day. This should all be added to your resume, but also, to make it even more official you can complete online courses, earn certifications, and share it all to authorize your skillsets.
Official certifications and extra coursework are additional qualifiers that companies and hiring managers look for when scouring available candidates. It may even give you an edge over the competition, landing you a new and excellent opportunity! 6. Create an elevator pitch Image used with permission by copyright holder If you find a new tech role, and score an interview, you’ll need to be on your toes — it’s a very competitive industry. You need an elevator pitch. If you’ve never heard of an elevator pitch before, the idea is that you share everything important about yourself, a business idea, or an investment opportunity in the small window of time it takes for an elevator to reach a particular floor — basically, you want to get the pitch done before the person you’re talking to reaches their desired floor. It’s not meant to be taken literally, you’re not always going to be delivering it in an elevator or a hurry, but you still want to be concise.
Create and practice giving your elevator pitch, making sure to outline your strengths and tell your personal story or career, sticking to the most important details above all. This also helps you prepare for job interviews, which you’ll eventually be involved in after applying to a few openings.
7. Go to networking events While you’ll be doing a vast majority of your networking and job searching digitally and online these days, you should still be showing your face whenever applicable. Attend job fairs, panels, presentations, social gatherings, you name it.
If you have a business card, hand it out. Share with anyone who will listen, and be sure to float the idea that you’re open to new work. Cast your net wide and you’ll be more likely to reel in a big fish. At the same time, don’t forget online events either. Online seminars, meetings, and even Twitter Spaces are all excellent places to interact with other professionals socially and get your name out there.
8. Look in the right places The best tech job sites, like ZipRecruiter, are the obvious place to go when you actually begin your search for new jobs. Be sure you’re signing up to get email updates, which are often sent daily, and earlier in the mornings, helping you spot potential opportunities.
Some of the platforms even have a mobile app so you can continue your search on the go or in your downtime. ZipRecruiter’s mobile app, for example, allows you to search for jobs and apply to ones you like, all with one tap. You can also browse for trending locations, job titles, job types, field categories, major companies, and much more. It helps narrow down your search but also ensures you’re looking in all the right places so you can find a new tech role that fits you.
9. Enlist help Image used with permission by copyright holder When you’re not seeking a job, recruiters can seem quite aggressive, it’s true. But when you are looking, they’re an incredibly valuable resource that you should be utilizing. Recruiters and career experts can sometimes help you find work or put the right opportunities in front of you.
Sometimes, it’s good to think outside the box, or rather, turn to more advanced solutions, like an A.I. assistant. ZipRecruiter’s Phil is a personal A.I. recruiter that can help you look for new jobs and get your career in order.
Who is Phil , exactly? Designed to be like a personal recruiter, the A.I. assistant continuously learns and gets smarter through contextual and conversational interactions with you. Phil is super easy to interact with, too. Just head to the main website, answer a few questions, and off you go. Phil will even give you tips to improve your odds of getting hired.
10. Be patient If there’s only one thing you take away from this entire guide, let it be that you need to be patient, and persistent. Manage your expectations and understand that finding the right role takes time. Some may get lucky and find a role right away in days. For others, it may take weeks or months.
You’ll never find an opportunity if you don’t search, and you’ll never be given a chance if you don’t apply to openings, so keep doing that as much as possible and you’re well on your way to securing a new tech role.
Keep these tips in mind to find a new tech role The great thing about platforms like ZipRecruiter is that they’re designed to make the job search, application, and hiring processes simpler and more streamlined for everyone, not just for you but also the businesses and companies looking to hire people just like you. Before you even start looking though, you should consider the tips discussed here, which are meant to help you prepare for your upcoming journey. Above all, good luck on your next search to find a new tech role.
Editors' Recommendations Hiring managers need to see this: tips to hire top talent in your sector Where to post jobs for free: 11 of the best free job boards in 2022 Business Computing As Black Friday quickly approaches and the whole month of November is treated as a sales event, now is the perfect time to pick up a laptop, especially if you missed out during Prime Day. Luckily, HP has some great early Black Friday deals you can take advantage of, and you might also consider Amazon Black Friday laptop deals; whether you want something for work or gaming, there are quite a few options. We've collected some of our favorite deals across the board, but it is always worth checking out these Dell Black Friday deals for alternatives. Everything on this list comes straight from HP, but it's worth checking out Best Buy Black Friday laptop deals and Amazon Black Friday deals for more options.
Best HP Laptop Black Friday Deals HP has a lot of great budget-oriented laptops, so if you're looking for something that won't impact your wallet too much, going for one of these Black Friday laptop deals below is a good idea. That said, keep in mind that their lower-tier laptops tend to have a lot of similarities, with only slight changes in specifications here and there, so it might be worth looking at our laptop buying guide for some help. Even so, we've done our best to pick the deals that we find are the best when balancing costs with specifications.
Computing If you want to buy a Windows laptop but don't really want to spend the hundreds of dollars required to get something good, Chromebooks are the perfect alternative. Because ChromeOS is a much more lightweight operating system, it doesn't eat up as many resources as Windows does. That means that the same hardware under the hood can provide more functionality than it would on a Windows laptop, which helps bring the price down.
To pile on to that, there are some great Black Friday deals you can take advantage of that will bring the price down even further. If you find that you need the full functionality of a laptop, check out our general Best Buy Black Friday laptop deals, or Black Friday laptop deals and Black Friday MacBook deals, for PC and MacOS respectively.
Best HP Chromebook Black Friday Deals Computing With the big event coming up fast, we're spotting some early Black Friday deals already. There are some great Black Friday laptop deals, on gaming laptops in particular if you simply can't wait any longer to make a purchase. Don't forget to check out the Amazon Black Friday laptop deals for some gaming options, too. Below we've picked out some awesome Black Friday gaming laptop deals with something for nearly every budget and including all the biggest names in the field. These come straight from the manufacturer and from retailer sales, like general Best Buy Black Friday laptop deals and more specific Best Buy Black Friday gaming laptop deals. Let's guide you through the deals now.
Today's Best Black Friday Gaming Laptop Deals HP Victus 15 (Intel) -- $550, was $900 The HP Victus 15 is one of the cheapest gaming laptops in the market, but it still provides decent performance with the latest 13th-generation Intel Core i5 processor, Nvidia GeForce RTX 3050 graphics card, and 8GB of RAM. With these specifications, you can play today's most popular games, but you'll have to go with low to medium graphic settings for the more demanding titles. The gaming laptop is also equipped with a 15.6-inch Full HD screen with a 144Hz refresh rate, and a 512GB SSD with Windows 11 Home pre-loaded. Check out other HP laptop Black Friday deals and Amazon Black Friday deals if you're interested in more Victus options.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
