Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Way to Hire Employees Highest Paying Jobs Best Business Laptops What is RingCentral? Best VPN Best Job Search Sites Home Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? You’ll be surprised how easy it is to build a website with this tool By Jennifer Allen Close Image used with permission by copyright holder Squarespace has been a big name in the website building and hosting world for a long time, and for good reason. Its services have always been designed in a way that makes it easy for you to create your very own website without needing specialist skills to figure out what to do. Best of all, while other companies may have focused on providing you with templates — meaning a lot of websites look alike — Squarespace still allows you to add your own unique spin to your site, whether it’s for business purposes or a personal project.
Squarespace just got even better with the launch of Fluid Engine. It’s Squarespace’s newest drag-and-drop editor, and it provides budding designers with limitless customization options. Incredibly easy to use thanks to its highly intuitive nature, it’s called Fluid Engine because it’s so fluid to use. While we recommend heading straight over to Squarespace to see just how great it is for yourself, we have some insight into why you need Fluid Engine in your life and why Squarespace is the website builder that suits everyone’s needs.
Squarespace has been around since 2003, enabling everyone to make their own stylish website without needing to know how to code. The ideal tool to use to level the playing field, it’s been a huge success for many people. After all, pretty much everyone is online in some form now, so it’s important to be able to get your company’s name out there or simply have a place to share your views. By using Squarespace, you can build a website yourself, saving you the need to hire someone to complete the job for you. Instead, you can be a part of the design process every step of the way, all while saving considerable money.
Design is a core part of what Squarespace does, and that’s reflected in its latest tool: Fluid Engine. The idea is that anyone who knows how to use a computer can accomplish a lot by using it. All you need is an idea (or even just a hint of one to experiment with), and Fluid Engine will help you realize your dream in an easy-to-use way. While previously Squarespace offered a great website editor, this is a complete overhaul so you get a far better website editing experience than ever before, regardless of your experience levels.
So, how does it work? That’s the beauty behind Fluid Engine. It’s all about finding your own way thanks to it being so intuitive. It’s as fluid as your thought process thanks to its drag-and-drop interface, meaning you can move stuff around and figure things out as you go along. It’s a grid-based drag-and-drop editor, which matches pretty much every other software package you may have used before, so it really doesn’t take you long to figure out. The thinking behind it is that Fluid Engine provides you with the canvas and the toolkit involved in helping you design your website’s layout without ever being intimidated.
You might be worried that “simple to figure out” means that Fluid Engine is limited in its scope, but that’s far from the case. Instead, Squarespace promises limitless customization options. Effectively, the only limits you’re ever going to face are from your imagination. Fluid Engine gives you the ultimate freedom to personalize your site’s layout so it looks unique even among the millions of other websites out there.
Drag-and-drop may sound vague, but that’s because that’s exactly how simple it really is. You just drag content blocks onto the grid before moving them freely around so they end up exactly where you need them to be. Anyone that’s used other website builders has almost certainly come across limitations or a stubborn content block that won’t move where you need it to go, but Fluid Engine fixes all that. It’s even possible to adjust the grid itself. You can choose from presets or opt to manually adjust grid row counts, as well as the height, width, and spacing. Alternatively, you can turn the grid background on or off, as well as guide content blocks to seamlessly lock with rows and columns.
Elsewhere, the options continue to prove incredibly convenient. Want to layer up some content blocks so that they overlap? That’s easy to do here with you also able to send them forward or backward as needed. It’s all the kind of thought process that comes naturally to us, so it feels like something everyone can figure out, even if you don’t feel knowledgable about computers. Little extras like being able to select a group of content blocks before moving them together saves you time and effort, with spacing and alignment precision ensuring you can always space them just how you need them.
Even things like resizing is a breeze as you can simply grab a content block corner and expand or contract it to make it the right size for your site. That goes for images too, with the ability to stretch them to any ratio, as well as align them just how you need them to be.
Want to arrange a content block or set a section background so it looks flush to the edges of a browser screen? Yup, that’s easy to do here too. There’s no need to worry about awkward adjustments, as Fluid Engine does the hard work for you.
At all times, it’s easy to add, arrange, and manage content, even after you feel like your site has been initially designed. Thanks to the full suite of intuitive tools at your disposal, whether you’re updating a page with new information about your business or product, or you’re looking to add a whole new section, Fluid Engine makes it simple to do.
Image used with permission by copyright holder You won’t have to worry about spending hours trying to make adjustments, as Squarespace appreciates that your site will constantly evolve and need updates. You may even find yourself more motivated to make some tweaks to the site’s design over time, thanks to it being so easy to do. A rigid website structure is the last thing anyone wants to have to contend with, so it’s refreshing to see how much Fluid Engine lives up to its name by adding fluidity to the process.
That fluidity extends to mobile design too. More people use their phone to browse online rather than pulling out their laptop or desktop. That’s why it’s important to have a well-optimized mobile site as well as a desktop layout. Squarespace appreciates that and allows you to edit mobile layouts independently from the desktop layout. You still use the same grid technology throughout, but it means you can ensure that both sites cater for their respective audiences effectively. Often, you want a mobile site to focus on certain elements that may differ from a desktop site, with the smaller screen of a phone or tablet meaning you need to use the space better. Fluid Engine makes that simple to achieve. Better mobile optimization also means you get improved screen responsiveness. How does that help? It means your site looks consistent on any device, so it will be equally attractive to someone looking at it using an aging Android phone or the latest iPad.
If you’re worried about Fluid Engine being a premium exclusive, don’t be. Everyone gets access to the revolutionary new editing system, from new customers on a trial to existing website customers using the latest version of Squarespace. Simply put, it’s there ready for you to check out. New users will only ever use Fluid Engine, while existing users editing their website can add new Fluid Engine sections or even convert old sections to Fluid Engine ones instead. It’s delightfully flexible like this so you’ll always be in control of what you’re doing.
Fluid Engine means that you’ll only ever be limited by your imagination. If you’ve always had a great idea for a stylish-looking website to promote your brand or business but you weren’t sure where to start, Squarespace is the solution. Extremely easy to use, intuitive, and incredibly fluid to use, it’s the perfect way to ensure that people take notice of your business online and appreciate just how professional your operation is. Give it a try today and see how it can revolutionize the look of your website as well as save your business plenty of cash that would otherwise need to be spent on a web designer.
Editors' Recommendations Wix Free Trial: Can you build a website for free? Squarespace Free Trial: Build and host your website for free You’ll be surprised how cheap this 55-inch QLED 4K TV is today You’ll be shocked how cheap this 75-inch 4K TV is right now You’ll be surprised how cheap this HP 17-inch laptop is today Business Computing Business Computing Always a popular fixture among regular laptop deals, the latest Dell XPS 13 laptop is enjoying a particularly sweet discount right now when you buy direct from Dell. Typically priced at $1,099, it's down to $899 for a limited time so you save $200 off the usual price. This is a limited quantity deal which means Dell has set aside a certain amount of stock at this price. Once that number is hit, the laptop goes back to the usual price and you miss out on the sweet $200 price cut. No one wants to do that so let's take a quick look at why you need this in your life before the sale ends.
Why you should buy the Dell XPS 13 laptop The previous Dell XPS 13 model was pretty great and we described it as the "laptop endgame". This one builds upon that success as you'd expect from one of the best laptop brands keen to maintain its reputation. This model has a 12th-generation Intel Core i7 processor paired up with a respectable 16GB of extra-fast 5,200MHz memory and 512GB of SSD storage. It's an excellent combo for ensuring you can multi-task efficiently. If you want a productivity-focused machine, you can't go wrong here with the laptop sure to keep up with all your working plans.
Deals In recent times, Google has made it even easier for companies to successfully advertise their job ads online. With Google for Jobs, potential candidates can easily check out the dedicated job search tool and see exactly what's out there across a series of popular job search boards and sites. While it's possible to use your company's website to advertise a job and potentially feature on Google, the more effective solution is to use a job board that is integrated with Google for Jobs. Your ad and others will feature at the top of the search results, instantly giving your candidates key insight. Interested in learning more? We've picked out the seven best ways to post a job on Google so you can seek out the best future employee for your company.
Best Overall: ZipRecruiter Besides offering integration within Google so your ads will be more prominently displayed, ZipRecruiter is also one of the most reliable names around when it comes to finding jobs, as well as putting out ads for new hires. Placing an opening on ZipRecruiter doesn't just place it on Google for Jobs. It also connects to more than 100 job boards so your job listing is shown across a huge network of places where someone might be seeking out a new opportunity or career. That saves you the time in manually creating job listings at every source, while also giving you the best chance of finding the ideal candidate for you.
Deals This content was produced in partnership with Intuit.
Whether you're starting a business, or you have a well-established venture up and running already, you'll need a bit of support to play in the big leagues. Large organizations have a lot more resources at their disposal, including an inordinate amount of funds to work with for marketing, tools, software, and much more. While you may never be up to their speed, you do have a lot of options, if you know where to look. Intuit's QuickBooks Online and QuickBooks Payroll, for example, are powerful tools that can help small businesses grow and thrive. These software solutions provide a wide range of benefits for business owners, from streamlining accounting and financial management to automating payroll and tax reporting. Below, we'll explore some of the ways that QuickBooks Online and QuickBooks Payroll can seriously help your small business grow.
Efficient Accounting and Financial Management One of the most significant benefits of using QuickBooks Online is that it makes accounting and financial management simple, efficient, and relatively automated. QuickBooks Online allows you to manage your finances from anywhere, whether you're at the office or on the go. You can track income and expenses, create and send invoices, and even manage your bank accounts and credit cards directly from the platform. This is huge if you're running a smaller, e-commerce business where you have invoices, expenses, and costs going out -- and coming in -- from a wide variety of sources. Dropshipping store, anyone? Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
