Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Way to Hire Employees Highest Paying Jobs Best Business Laptops What is RingCentral? Best VPN Best Job Search Sites Home Mobile News AT&T 5G network: Everything you need to know By Christian de Looper Close Depending on who you ask, either Verizon or AT&T was the first provider in the country to offer a 5G phone plan.
 While Verizon was indeed the first to use technologies such as mmWave that are the basis for true 5G technologies, AT&T was the first to deploy something called 5GE, which was just souped-up LTE and more of a marketing ploy than anything else. AT&T has moved away from that ( due to a lawsuit by Sprint ) and is now focusing on true 5G, which is available across the country.
AT&T 5G network coverage AT&T 5G carrier plans AT&T 5G phones 5G versus 5GE So what is 5G , anyway? The fifth-generation wireless network, or 5G, has been nearly a decade in the making, and it’s finally becoming a reality. Promising dramatically faster speeds, instantaneous communication, and the ability to network everything, 5G has incredible potential. A limited rollout of the service began in select cities in 2018, and has since grown to include a nationwide network.
AT&T, always leaning toward confusion, splits its 5G coverage into two types — 5G, and 5G+. Standard 5G is essentially based on the Sub-6 spectrum, while 5G+ is AT&T’s mmWave network. For now, you shouldn’t worry too much about 5G+, as it’s not all that widely available, and where it is available, it’s a little finicky to actually use. That’s a problem every carrier faces.
Have an Android phone? You can get unlimited 5G service for free How fast is 5G? What you need to know about 5G speeds What is Amazon Music: everything you need to know Here’s everything you need to know about AT&T’s 5G rollout.
AT&T 5G network coverage If you’re looking for an up-to-date map of coverage, take a look at our 5G coverage map to see if there’s availability in your area.
While AT&T was a little slow to the punch, it now offers a nationwide 5G network built on the Sub-6 spectrum. The result is that if you’re anywhere near a reasonably populated area, you should be able to get 5G service, though for now, that service may not be all that much faster than a 4G LTE connection.
It’s important to note that AT&T’s network isn’t as large as T-Mobile’s 5G network or Verizon 5G.
 Again, if you’re anywhere near a populated area, you should still get coverage, but outside of major cities, you may not. That’s likely to change over time — AT&T is rapidly expanding its 5G network, as all carriers are. Both its Sub-6 network and mmWave network should get a whole lot bigger over the coming year.
Many downtown areas across the country offer 5G+ connectivity, however, your success in actually connecting to those networks may vary.
Speaking of major cities, they’re the only place you’ll currently get AT&T’s 5G+ coverage. Many downtown areas across the country offer 5G+ connectivity, however, your success in actually connecting to those networks may vary. Just like Verizon and T-Mobile, AT&T has to battle with launching thousands of small cell sites in order to get mmWave coverage in even a small area, and many factors like buildings and even trees can cause problems with getting a consistent connection.
On AT&T’s Sub-6 network, you should be able to achieve download speeds of a few hundred megabits per second, but some people may still get slower speeds, closer to what you’ll see on 4G. Again, this will likely get better over time as AT&T improves its network. AT&T says most customers are getting download speeds of around 400Mbps on the parts of its 5G network that are already live. The company says it has observed speeds of up to 1.5Gbps — which is very impressive and lives up to what we expect to see from 5G eventually.
AT&T 5G coverage map AT&T 5G carrier plans AT&T offers a range of plans that work with 5G, and thankfully, you don’t have to pay extra to use 5G with AT&T on most of its plans — you just get it. AT&T offers three core plans, and they all offer unlimited data, with 5G access.
First up is the AT&T Unlimited Starter plan, with costs $65 per month for one line, or as little as $30 per line, per month for five lines. On this plan, you’ll get unlimited talk, text, and data, including in Canada and Mexico. Your video watching will be limited to standard definition — or 480p — so you won’t get ultra-clear video. For many people, that won’t really matter.
Next up is Unlimited Extra. This plan costs $75 per month for one line, or as little as $35 per line, per month for five lines. Added to this plan is 50GB of so-called “Premium Data,” which essentially means that you won’t be throttled in speeds if you’ve used less than 50GB. You’ll also get 15GB of 5G hot spot data per line.
Last but not least is Unlimited Elite. Unlimited Elite costs $85 per month for one line, and ranges down to $45 per month, per line for five lines. On this plan, you’ll get 100GB of premium data and the ability to stream video in HD, or 720p. You’ll also get 30GB of hot spot data, and a subscription to HBO Max.
Unfortunately, you won’t get 5G access on AT&T’s 4GB plan.
AT&T 5G phones Image used with permission by copyright holder AT&T offers a range of 5G-compatible phones , and actually, if you buy a reasonably new phone that costs more than $500 or so, you should expect to get 5G compatibility. In fact, we’re at a point now where if you’re buying a new phone that you expect to keep for more than a few years, you’ll probably want to make sure that it can connect to 5G networks. Here are some of the best AT&T 5G phones to buy in 2021: Samsung Galaxy S21 – $800 ($26.67 per month) Samsung Galaxy S21 Ultra – $1,200 ($40 per month) Apple iPhone 12 – $800 ($26.67 per month) Apple iPhone 12 Pro – $1,000 ($33.34 per month) Google Pixel 5 – $725 ($24.17 per month) 5G versus 5GE Image used with permission by copyright holder As mentioned before, AT&T found itself in hot water over its decisions to rebrand certain 4G phones as “5GE” phones.
 The company argues that many technologies deeply linked to the faster 5G networks have already integrated into the company’s existing 4G network. That may be loosely true, but it is still disingenuous to brand top-level 4G as any sort of next-generation network.
Even other carriers are up in arms about 5GE. Sprint (prior to merging with T-Mobile) sued AT&T over the 5GE branding, arguing that it was misleading and that it does damage to other carriers because many consumers don’t know that 5GE isn’t “real” 5G.
The reality of it is that 5GE is actually 4G LTE Advanced. It is, unequivocally, not 5G. It may have better speeds than an older 4G network, but it’s still 4G. AT&T seems to be dramatically deemphasizing its use of 5GE now that its real 5G network has rolled out nationwide, and we’re happy to see it.
Editors' Recommendations This new MediaTek chip is about to bring 5G to a lot more devices T-Mobile still has the fastest 5G, but its rivals are catching up Have a Samsung Galaxy Z Flip 5? Here are 10 things you need to do Are Apple AirPods waterproof? Everything you need to know What is an eSIM? Here’s everything you need to know Business 5G AT&T Cellular Carriers Tech News Mobile It looks like 2023 could shape up to be the year that we reach "peak 5G." While T-Mobile still enjoys a very healthy lead over its rivals, we're no longer seeing significant speed increases from any of the big three U.S. carriers.
That's not surprising for T-Mobile and Verizon since they now cover more than two-thirds of the U.S. population. AT&T still has room to grow, yet it seems to be in a resting phase rather than an expansion one right now.
Mobile Every few months, a new market analysis comes out comparing the top 5G performance and availability among U.S. carriers. Each time, we wonder if the latest report will finally topple T-Mobile, which has held a commanding lead over rivals AT&T and Verizon for years. Yet, with each new report, T-Mobile pulls farther ahead while AT&T and Verizon are left in the dust.
With that in mind, Opensignal's latest 5G Experience Report doesn't bring too many surprises, at least in broad strokes. T-Mobile continues to deliver 5G download speeds that are more than twice those of any other carrier and more than twice the 5G availability. This means you won't just get faster performance on T-Mobile's 5G network, but you're more likely to be able to find a 5G connection.
Computing Random-access memory, or RAM, is an essential component in everything from desktop computers to smartphones. RAM is a high-speed, short-term storage solution that gives applications, games, and the operating system itself, quick access to important information. That saves it the time of retrieving the data from much slower storage, like hard drives and SSDs.
Like other components in your devices, though, there are many different types of RAM. RAM speed can be affected by its type, the model, or its generation, and its price can vary wildly depending on the capacity you're buying, and what device it's going into.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
