Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Way to Hire Employees Highest Paying Jobs Best Business Laptops What is RingCentral? Best VPN Best Job Search Sites Home News New Instagram stickers encourage foodies to support their top dining spots By Trevor Mogg Close Instagram is launching some new features aimed at encouraging foodies to help restaurants grappling with the fallout from the coronavirus pandemic.
Businesses across the board are being hammered by the crisis, with lockdowns and social distancing measures forcing many people to change their ways and live much of their life indoors. The restaurant trade has been particularly hard hit, with many establishments currently closed to diners as part of measures to protect workers’ health and slow the spread of the virus, officially known as COVID-19.
 Many eateries have continued to cook for takeout and delivery orders, while others are launching such services for the first time in a bid to survive.
Hoping to help, Facebook-owned Instagram is rolling out interactive “food order” and “gift card” Stories stickers with their own unique content aimed at driving awareness of the new ways in which people can support their favorite local restaurants.
Instagram exploring new profile grid offering greater personalization With Instagram’s newest sticker, you no longer need to say “link in bio” Instagram’s new tool helps your photos raise money for personal causes In examples posted on its site (below), Instagram shows a message in a story from a restaurant that says: “Here’s how you can help keep our business running — tap on this sticker and make an order.” Another example shows a gift card sticker, together with a short message encouraging customer support.
Instagrammers can also share the stickers in their own Stories to help spread the word about a particular place they know and love.
Instagram To use the sticker for food orders, a business first needs to hook up with an on-demand delivery firm such as DoorDash, UberEats, or Grubhub. For gift cards, an account with payment service Square or gift card marketplace Raise is the way to go.
It’s also possible to start a fundraiser on Instagram (through Facebook ), which could attract donations from restaurant regulars who are keen to support the trade in these challenging times.
Popular with foodies who love posting pics of mouthwatering meals, Instagram is the perfect platform for getting people excited about different dishes offered by local restaurants. With that in mind, let’s hope fans of eating out are able to go on supporting their favorite spots, especially the small independent places, many of which are really struggling right now.
Instagram’s new stickers arrive this week in the U.S. and Canada, with a global launch coming in the next few weeks.
Editors' Recommendations Instagram enhances messaging experience with new features Instagram boss highlights three new features, including Profile Embeds Messenger and Instagram gain cross-app group chats, new themes Instagram food porn: Top U.K. chef reignites debate over diners’ meal pics New Apple Mac Pro spotted in DJ Calvin Harris’ studio on Instagram Business Mobile Instagram Tech News Social Media Instagram’s Explore tab has steadily evolved over the years with occasional tweaks and features designed to nudge you into increasing your follow count, as well as the amount of time you spend on the app.
Now the Facebook-owned company is doubling down on its efforts to get you to open your wallet and shop via Explore with a redesigned navigation bar that's rolling out first in the United States.
Social Media Instagram’s camera is getting an upgrade -- but not for taking pictures. During the annual F8 conference on April 30, Instagram shared an upcoming new design for the camera mode. The update brings a Create Mode that allows users to share information without having to start by taking a photo or video. Instagram also shared details on a new shopping tool, fundraising efforts, and a test to eliminate the like counts.
Sometime in the next few weeks, an Instagram update will bring a new design to Instagram’s built-in camera. The update features the new Create Mode, which allows users to use effects and stickers, but doesn’t require starting out with a photo or a video. Instead, users start from scratch on a blank canvas and add stickers and other effects.
Photography Instagram has been steadily building up its online shopping tools, and now the photo-focused social media platform has its own shopping cart. On Tuesday, March 19, Instagram launched a checkout tool, allowing users to both shop and then go through checkout without ever leaving the network. The feature is rolling out in the U.S. in beta today with a handful of businesses.
Instagram checkout works with existing tools like shopping tags and stickers inside both feed posts and Stories. The product page for items from early adapters of the new tool displays photos, allows users to choose different options like sizes and color, and then includes a “checkout on Instagram” button. Instagram says checkout information will be “securely saved” for future orders, streamlining the process for second purchases, even from a different retailer.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
