Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Way to Hire Employees Highest Paying Jobs Best Business Laptops What is RingCentral? Best VPN Best Job Search Sites Home Photography Features Post lockdown, smart cameras could help enforce mask use and social distancing By Hillary K. Grigonis Close As COVID-19 lockdowns begin to lift, life in public spaces will look a little different. Masks and maintaining six feet of distance could become the new normal. And a little camera in the corner could trigger an alert if you don’t wear a mask or step too close.
Working with Microsoft, the Network of Intelligent Camera Ecosystem (NICE) Alliance is developing a system that could allow any connected camera to become a smart camera capable of detecting a lack of social distancing, unmasked individuals, or even fevers. The cameras could send a text alert to business owners when a location is too crowded or social distancing rules are violated, or even trigger a warning in public spaces, such as a warning light.
Previous Next 1 2 NICE Alliance NICE Alliance The NICE Alliance is a group of several camera manufacturers working together to create an operating system where cameras from multiple brands can talk to each other — essentially going from an Apple-like ecosystem only supporting Apple products to an Android-like system supporting multiple brands.
Some smart cameras are already capable of detecting face masks and fevers. Amazon, for example, is using security cameras at building entrances to detect if an employee has an elevated body temperature.
 But, those are Amazon cameras built specifically for the task. The NICE system is designed to work with existing cameras, requiring just a router instead of the replacement of every camera in the system.
Expect lower video quality on your Nest cameras this week WHO’s Play Apart Together campaign uses games to promote social distancing French police the latest to use speaker drones to enforce coronavirus lockdown Many small businesses couldn’t afford a completely new smart camera system, even before the lockdown forced many businesses to temporarily close. The NICE Alliance’s goal is to create a system that’s affordable enough for widespread implementation, according to David Lee, the CEO of Scenera, one of the founding members of NICE. The system requires a router or leasing a data box, and a subscription to the cloud service.
The NICE system works by looking for specific scenarios and only uploading data to the cloud that meets specified criteria, since sending data to the cloud 24/7 would be cost-prohibitive. If the camera detects more than two people at an entrance, for example, the data would then be sent to the cloud.
The artificial intelligence on the cloud could then analyze the footage, using facial recognition to determine if individuals are wearing masks, for example, or when an area becomes too crowded. Thermal cameras could also be connected to the system to register if someone in the area has a fever. If certain parameters are met, such as an area being overcrowded or an individual not wearing a mask, the system can be programmed to send an alert to the business owner or trigger a warning light.
Besides leaving much of the information off the cloud entirely, Lee says that the system uses encryption on any personal ID in an attempt to balance the public safety benefits with privacy. Facial detection looks only for the presence of a face mask. The system can use seen attributes — such as the color of a shirt or a hat — to identify where the person is using multiple cameras, without sharing or recording their identity, he said.
While the system could help alert businesses to individuals failing to meet guidelines, those guidelines also don’t apply to every person, as that could generate false alerts for some locations. Family members living in the same household, for example, do not have to remain six feet apart.
The CDC also does not recommend masks for children under 2, anyone that can’t remove the mask themselves, and individuals who have trouble breathing.
Lee says that some local governments and office buildings are already considering adopting the system.
The NICE system is finishing up initial trials and expecting to roll out to testbed sites and early adopters in the third calendar quarter of the year. A broader rollout could follow toward the end of the year, if everything goes as planned.
Editors' Recommendations How Fujifilm instant cameras are helping patients and nurses to connect New Jersey cops use speaker-drones to help enforce pandemic lockdown Mysterious drone tells New Yorkers to socially distance during pandemic Proposed NICE standards promise more powerful smart cameras, no matter the brand Business News Coronavirus: How COVID-19 is changing the way we live Features Home Security Smart Cities Mobile Blackmagic Design has just released a free and feature-packed app for shooting video on the iPhone.
With the company’s background in building high-end digital movie cameras and popular video editing software such as DaVinci Resolve, the new Camera app will be worth a look for those who want more creative control when shooting footage on Apple’s iPhone.
Photography INSTAX Pal Promotional Video "Making small moments feel big"/FUJIFILM Fujifilm has just unveiled the Instax Pal camera, a diminutive digital device targeted at teens who might want to print their pictures, too.
Photography With even the best cameras, there's an all too familiar process of getting the perfect shot. Find what you want to take a picture of, line up the shot, and then get really still and take the shot. Unless you're on an early 2000s shaky cam nostalgia trip, the process works pretty similar for capturing video footage as well. Getting really still, however, can feel like the antithesis of fun. The purpose of a good adventure is to see some peaceful sights, sure, but there's also the grand, exciting, and hopefully action-packed journey to those sights.
The answer to this issue, for you, could be a GoPro.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
