Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Cars Reviews Now a year older, the Kia EV6 still feels like the future By Stephen Edelstein Close $50,025.00 Distinctive design Great to drive Impressive standard infotainment system Up-to-date charging hardware Not the best value Kia doesn’t have an illustrious heritage to look back on like some other automakers, but that also means it’s less encumbered by tradition. And that makes designing a new EV from the ground up a lot easier.
Design and interior Tech, infotainment, and driver assist Driving experience Electric range, charging, and safety How DT would configure this car Launched for the 2022 model year, the Kia EV6 is the brand’s first clean-sheet EV design. While Kia previously marketed electric versions of the Soul and Niro , the EV6 is the first production EV from the brand with no ties to internal combustion. It does, however, have ties to the Hyundai Ioniq 5 and Ioniq 6 from Kia’s corporate parent, as well as the Genesis GV60, as it shares those models’ E-GMP platform.
Kia EV4: design, rumored pricing, release date, and more Ford EV drivers can use 12,000 Tesla Superchargers starting in 2024 Ram EV concept previews truck brand’s electric future Kia has a reputation for value, but the EV6 starts higher than its Hyundai platform-mates, at $50,025 for the EV6 Wind, which serves as the base model in most regions (a $43,925 EV6 Light model is available in limited areas). Like other E-GMP models, pricing also climbs quickly for high-end models, with the top EV6 GT starting at $62,925. Our test car was an EV6 GT-Line, with a $58,925 base price that puts it just below the GT in the lineup.
Design and interior Stephen Edelstein/Digital Trends Like the Hyundai Ioniq 5 and Genesis GV60, the EV6 is marketed as a crossover SUV. But it has a very different look from any other crossover — electric or otherwise.
Kia settled on an interesting mix of automotive styling elements for the EV6. Its width and elevated ride height are SUV-like, but the long and low roof seems more appropriate for a station wagon. Short overhangs — particularly at the front — are a visual reminder that Kia didn’t have to package up an engine. The result is something that is neither entirely car or SUV. Put another way, the EV6 would look just as good with slammed suspension and a body kit as it would with a roof rack and chunky tires.
The different shape doesn’t have a dramatic impact on passenger space. Headroom and legroom in both rows are about the same as in the Ioniq 5. However, the EV6’s 24.4 cubic feet of cargo space (50.2 cubic feet with the rear seats folded) trails the Hyundai. That’s also well behind the manufacturer-quoted cargo space for the Tesla Model Y. The Tesla also has a 4.1-cubic-foot frunk, while the Kia has an afterthought bin. But headroom and legroom is fairly close between the two. It’s also worth noting that you have to step down to get into the EV6 — not a very SUV-like trait.
The EV6 has a very different look from any other crossover — electric or otherwise.
Like many current EVs, the EV6 has a minimalist interior, but Kia charts its own path with some interesting details. The curved touchscreen sits in a bowled dashboard, so it doesn’t just look tacked on. The door handles sit in sleek triangular enclosures. Instead of the open space of the Hyundai Ioniq 6 and Ioniq 5, Kia designers chose a high center console. That creates a more enclosed feel, but it’s the perfect spot for the start button and dial-like shifter, while still leaving some useful storage space below.
However, while our EV6 GT-Line test car sported cool textile-like trim on the dashboard and white trim on the seats, we could do without the glare-inducing piano black plastic. And while Kia may brand the upholstery as “vegan leather” in a nod toward sustainability, it’s the same synthetic leather typically used by automakers as a cost-saving measure.
Tech, infotainment, and driver assist Stephen Edelstein/Digital Trends Kia doesn’t shortchange customers on screens. A 12.3-inch digital instrument cluster and 12.3-inch touchscreen, squished together to look like one continuous screen, come standard on all models. Built-in navigation is standard as well, but that also means only wired Apple CarPlay and Android Auto are available. Kia and Hyundai currently offer wireless versions only on smaller screens without navigation, although that will change with a new infotainment system rolling out in updated models, starting with the 2024 Hyundai Kona.
The rearview camera images are so clear and sharp that you could shoot an Instagram Reel with them.
For now, the dual-screen setup in the EV6 has a lot going for it. The screens are perfectly positioned for quick viewing without blocking the driver’s field of position and, to our eyes at least, the resolution is among the best in the business. The rearview camera images are so clear and sharp that you could shoot an Instagram Reel with them. The same goes for the available blind-spot view cameras, which, as in other Kia, Hyundai, and Genesis products, shows a camera view in the instrument cluster when you flick a turn signal.
Like the Kia Sportage, the EV6’s dual 12.3-inch screens are backed up to a touch control panel that sits below the central touchscreen. It includes two analog knobs for audio volume and tuning, but everything else is touch, allowing the panel to switch between audio and climate control functions rather than having hard buttons for both.
The standard front USB-C and USB-A ports (one of each is included) and 12-volt outlet are placed on the floor near the firewall, so your phone will be inaccessible if you use them. However, the EV6 also has standard wireless phone charging, in a conveniently placed slot. Two USB-C ports for second-row passengers — mounted on the backs of the front seats — are also standard.
The EV6 gets the same Drive Wise driver-assist tech as other Kia models: blind spot monitoring, rear cross-traffic alert, a driver attention monitor, lane-keep assist, adaptive cruise control, and Highway Driving Assist. A machine-learning function for the adaptive cruise control, as well as a Highway Driving Assist 2 system that adds automated lane changes, are standard on higher trim levels, along with Remote Smart Parking Assist automated parking.
Driving experience Stephen Edelstein/Digital Trends Most EV6 models get the same 77-4.kilowatt-hour battery pack. Kia does offer the EV6 Light with a 58-kWh pack (and a lower base price), but for 2023, availability has been restricted to a handful of western states.
That means, for most buyers, the entry-level model will be the 77.4-kWh EV6 Wind, which is rated at 225 horsepower and 258 pound-feet of torque with its standard single-motor rear-wheel drive powertrain, or 320 hp and 446 lb-ft of torque with the optional dual-motor all-wheel drive powertrain. Kia estimates zero to 60 mph in 7.2 seconds with rear-wheel drive and 5.1 seconds with all-wheel drive.
When it comes to ride and handling, the EV6 really is the best of both worlds.
Those specs carry over to GT-Line models like our dual-motor test car. And the brisk acceleration afforded by that dual-motor powertrain wasn’t the only sporty thing about it. The Kia felt much more at home in corners than its Hyundai Ioniq 5 platform mate, staying planted despite its elevated ride height. The steering also felt more precise, and the EV6 had a general willingness to turn into corners that the more laid-back Hyundai lacked. The Kia also had a comparably comfortable ride, feeling very smooth over rough pavement. So it really is the best of both worlds.
The GT-Line isn’t even the true performance model of the lineup. The Kia EV6 GT gets a high-output version of the dual-motor powertrain that’s good for 576 hp and 545 lb-ft of torque, making it by far the most powerful production Kia ever. The manufacturer-estimated zero to 60 mph time of 3.4 seconds also beats the Ford Mustang Mach-E GT Performance Edition and Tesla Model Y Performance — two sporty variants of similarly sized EV crossovers — by 0.1 second.
Electric range, charging, and safety Stephen Edelstein/Digital Trends The EV6 gets the most range in rear-wheel drive form, at 310 miles. All-wheel drive range is dependent on trim level, with the Wind rated at 282 miles and the GT-Line and GT at 252 miles and 206 miles, respectively. The small-battery EV6 Light is rated at 232 miles, and is only available with rear-wheel drive.
One of the biggest advantages of the Hyundai E-GMP platform is an 800-volt electrical architecture that allows for quicker charging. The EV6 can DC fast charge at up to 350 kilowatts, which can get the battery to 80% capacity in 18 minutes, if you can find a powerful enough fast-charging station. A 10.9-kW AC charger can fully recharge the battery in seven hours and 10 minutes. A standard Vehicle-to-Load (V2L) port also lets the EV6 send power back to your home in the event of a power outage.
The EV6 was named a 2022 Insurance Institute for Highway Safety (IIHS) Top Safety Pick+, the organization’s highest safety award, which applies to 2022 and 2023 models. It also got a five-star overall safety rating from the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA).
Like gasoline Kia models, the EV6 also gets an impressive warranty. Kia’s 10-year, 100,000-mile powertrain warranty includes the battery. Tesla offers more mileage (120,000 miles), but a shorter coverage period (eight years) for the Model Y battery.
How DT would configure this car Stephen Edelstein/Digital Trends As impressed as we were with our GT-Line test car, it’s possible to get nearly all of the same features in the cheaper Wind model by checking a few option boxes. With a base price about $8,000 less than the GT-Line, the Wind gets the same dual-screen infotainment setup, while the clever blind-spot camera system and most of the other driver aids that are standard on the GT-Line are available as options. The Wind is also the only EV6 model to surpass 300 miles of range.
The 576-hp EV6 GT has impressive specs, but doesn’t offer any tech features distinct from the Wind and GT-Line models. As noted above, the standard version of the EV6’s dual-motor powertrain still delivers quick acceleration, and the EV6 GT takes a big range hit for its sports car-rivaling performance.
While it shares the E-GMP platform with the Hyundai Ioniq 5 and Genesis GV60, the Kia stakes out a unique position with sportier driving dynamics and a more forward-looking design than the Hyundai, and less bling than the Genesis. But if you don’t need a ton of cargo space, the Hyundai Ioniq 6 sedan is pleasant to drive, looks distinctive, and has a lower base price than the Kia.
Looking outside the E-GMP family, the Tesla Model Y offers 330 miles of range for about the same price, although the instability of both Tesla pricing and the company’s CEO need to be factored in. The Ford Mustang Mach-E is similarly sporty, and its available BlueCruise driver-assist system is more sophisticated than anything Kia offers. The Nissan Ariya has a well-designed interior and feels more like a true SUV, although it’s much less engaging to drive than the EV6. Overall, though, it’s hard to find fault with the EV6. It’s a great EV, but also just a great car.
Editors' Recommendations Kia EV5: rumored pricing, design, range, features, and more Which cars still qualify for the $7,500 EV tax credit? Here’s the full list Hyundai Ioniq 6 first drive review: welcome to the future Mercedes EV charging hubs are coming to North America by the end of the decade Kia EV6 GT first-drive review: putting a little more fun into EVs Car Reviews Product Reviews Cars If you want to see just how quickly the electric car landscape has changed over the past few years, take a look at the redesigned 2023 Kia Niro EV.
When the first-generation Niro EV launched for the 2019 model year (following hybrid and plug-in hybrid Niro variants), it was a pretty big deal. The Niro was Kia’s first EV not based on a conventional gasoline model, and the first intended for high sales volumes.
The second-generation 2023 Niro EV boasts more tech, more space, and more extroverted styling than its predecessor, but it’s still very much in the shadow of the Kia EV6. Once Kia’s main EV attraction, the Niro is being refocused as a more affordable option to take on the likes of the Chevrolet Bolt EV/Bolt EUV, Volkswagen ID.4, and Nissan Leaf.
Kia plans to offer the Niro EV in trim levels named Wind and Wave, but hasn’t released pricing for either. Note that the previous-generation 2022 Niro EV started at $41,245; the new model could see a price increase because of its updates. And because it’s assembled in South Korea, the 2023 Niro EV won’t qualify for the revamped federal EV tax credit, Kia has confirmed.
Design and interior Like the previous generation, the Niro is part of a three-pronged lineup that also includes the Niro Hybrid and Niro PHEV (plug-in hybrid models). All three maintain the tall-wagon shape of the first-generation Niro, but with much bolder styling.
Where the previous Niro was a wishy-washy mix of car and SUV styling elements, the 2023 Niro is the result of the same fearless design department that produced the EV6 and the 2023 Kia Sportage. The traditional automotive “face” was rearranged with a visor-like element, protruding grille, and hexagonal lighting elements. Contrasting trim panels break up the profile view, and conceal “Air Blade” elements around the taillights that, Kia claims, reduce aerodynamic drag.
Kia used sustainable materials to further decrease the Niro EV’s environmental impact.
Cars Electric vehicles function in fundamentally different ways than traditional cars. Internal combustion engines have loads of moving parts, and while EVs have their own complexities, they're much more digital than mechanical. Let's take a closer look at exactly how electric vehicles work.
How does an EV battery pack work? Instead of gasoline, EVs derive their power from a battery pack, which usually stretches along the underside of the car to keep the weight as low as possible. It's composed of multiple modules, which are in turn broken down into individual battery cells, similar in size to AA batteries. A layer of coolant runs between cells since hot batteries are explodey batteries. A battery management system regulates that coolant and ensures that each cell drains at the same rate, which prolongs the life of the pack.
Cars It was precisely 12 months ago at CES that Sony unveiled its Vision-S 01 concept electric vehicle (EV) design. That’s right, Sony, the company more famous for TVs, cameras, and consoles than cutting-edge cars.
Our excitement at the sedan’s dazzling design was tempered by the realization that the Japanese company would probably never actually manufacture the automobile.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
