Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Cars 2023 Toyota Sequoia supersizes hybrid tech By Stephen Edelstein Close If you want to appreciate how far automotive technology has come in the past decade and a half, take a look at the Toyota Sequoia.
Design Tech Specifications Rivals Toyota’s full-size SUV was last redesigned for the 2007 model year, and today it feels as ancient as the giant trees it’s named for. The Sequoia predates the proliferation of infotainment and driver-assist tech, and when it was designed, the only way to provide sufficient grunt was to stick a gas-guzzling V8 under the hood. Times have changed, and now, finally, so has the Sequoia.
The redesigned 2023 Toyota Sequoia retains old-school SUV attributes like robust towing capacity and off-road capability, but in a modernized package that meets current tech standards. Plus, it’s a hybrid.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Design As before, the Sequoia is based on the Toyota Tundra pickup truck, but this time it’s the updated version of the Tundra that debuted for the 2022 model year. So while the Sequoia still has truck-derived body-on-frame construction, it rides on a new frame that’s stiffer than before, helping to improve ride comfort, according to Toyota.
900 miles on a charge? How Toyota’s solid-state battery tech could revolutionize EVs Why you should consider a plug-in hybrid in 2023 No mere EV, the sensor-stuffed EX90 is Volvo’s towering tech flagship The exterior styling also reflects the Sequoia’s Tundra DNA, which could be a good thing or a bad thing, depending on what you want. If you want an in-your-face SUV that will never be confused with a minivan, this is it. But Toyota’s attempts to make the 2023 Sequoia look as tough as possible didn’t yield a sleek or elegant design.
The Sequoia remains a three-row SUV, but gains a sliding third row that can be moved forward or aft to increase cargo space, or legroom for rear-seat passengers, depending on what you’re carrying. Toyota also included an adjustable shelf for the cargo area. Up front, the design largely echoes the Tundra, with a large central touchscreen sitting atop the dashboard and chunky controls that match the rugged exterior aesthetic.
Tech The Sequoia gets the new Toyota Audio Multimedia infotainment system that debuted in the 2022 Tundra. An 8.0-inch touchscreen, wireless Apple CarPlay / Android Auto , and a 4G LTE Wi-Fi hotspot capable of supporting up to five devices are standard. A 14.0-inch touchscreen is available on higher trim levels. The new infotainment system also supports Amazon Music, Apple Music, cloud-based navigation, and over-the-air software updates.
The 2023 Sequoia also gets the Toyota Safety Sense 2.5 bundle of drive-assist tech, including forward collision warning (with pedestrian detection), adaptive cruise control, and automatic high beams. Blind-spot monitoring and rear cross-traffic alert are standard as well, while an available 360-degree camera system and rearview camera mirror should make parking this big SUV easier.
Finally, Toyota added some features aimed specifically at towing. Trailer Backup Guide assists when backing up with a trailer, while Straight Path Assist automatically provides steering input to help keep the SUV and trailer pointing straight when reversing.
Specifications The Sequoia gets the i-Force Max hybrid powertrain from the Tundra has standard equipment. The powertrain consists of a 3.5-liter twin-turbocharged V6 and 10-speed automatic transmission, with an electric motor mounted in the transmission’s bell housing. This allowed Toyota to retain the mechanical four-wheel-drive system with low range, which is better for off-roading. It’s also an extra-cost option; the Sequoia comes standard with rear-wheel drive.
The 2023 Sequoia’s 437 horsepower and 583 pound-feet of torque represent increases of 56 hp and 182 lb-ft over the V8-powered 2022 model. Toyota hasn’t released fuel economy figures for the Sequoia hybrid, but it’s likely to better its predecessor’s dismal 14 mpg combined with four-wheel drive. Toyota did note that the electric motor primarily works at low speeds, with the gasoline engine doing most of the work above 18 mph.
Available adaptive suspension with load-leveling rear air suspension (based on the setup from the Tundra) should make for a smoother ride. The TRD Pro off-road model gets its own suspension setup, plus a locking rear differential and chunkier tires for greater off-road capability.
Toyota says the new Sequoia is capable of towing up to 9,000 pounds (when properly equipped). That’s a nice increase over the old model’s 7,400-pound maximum towing capacity.
Rivals The Sequoia has more power and a higher maximum towing capacity than a Chevrolet Tahoe, but on the tech front, Chevy offers Google Built-In features as part of its infotainment system. The Nissan Armada offers a decent array of tech, but can’t out-tow the Toyota. Both SUVs also rely on V8 engines (Chevy also offers a six-cylinder diesel), and can’t match the Sequoia’s 14.0-inch touchscreen.
The Ford Expedition’s twin-turbo V6 has less power than Toyota’s hybrid system, but Ford still beats Toyota in towing capacity (by 300 pounds). The Expedition also gets its own clever Pro Trailer Backup Assist feature, and Ford plans to add its BlueCruise hands-free driver-assist system as an option later in the calendar year.
Toyota hasn’t released pricing but, for reference, the 2022 Sequoia starts at $50,500 and can scrape $70,000 with options. Those prices are for a vehicle with no development costs to pay off, so expect the 2023 Sequoia to start a bit higher when it hits showrooms this summer.
Editors' Recommendations Toyota joins ‘the Tesla plug’ club Mercedes-Benz EQE SUV first drive review: ’90s look, cutting-edge tech Digital Trends’ Top Tech of CES 2023 Awards 2023 Mercedes-Benz EQE SUV preview: The EV lineup grows again We need more 7-passenger EVs, but the 2023 Mercedes EQS SUV has room to improve News Tech News Toyota Cars Mercedes-Benz isn’t afraid of bold design, but not every luxury car shopper wants a vehicle that looks like a spaceship. Some Mercedes models are meant to be trendsetters, but the GLC-Class SUV is aimed at people who don’t need to be early adopters.
The GLC is a small SUV of the type that’s become the default for many buyers. So while the redesigned 2023 Mercedes-Benz GLC-Class gets notable features like a redesigned infotainment system, “transparent hood” camera system, and mild-hybrid powertrain, it’s all packaged in a way that looks familiar.
Cars Looking at its current lineup, it’s hard to believe Kia was once a byword for cheapness. In fact, the only nameplate remaining from those bad old days is the Kia Sportage. Since its launch in 1993, the Sportage has evolved from a curiosity to a true mainstream crossover SUV. But it was still missing something.
Cars Toyota has done more than any other automaker to popularize hybrid cars. Japan’s largest automaker may not have been the first to bring a hybrid to the United States (that was Honda), but the Toyota Prius made the idea stick -- and it didn't end there. Over the last decade, Toyota built on the popularity of the Prius, adding hybrid powertrains to nearly every type of vehicle.
One of the most glaring gaps in Toyota’s hybrid lineup has been pickup trucks, in part because Toyota hasn’t bothered to give its Tundra pickup a full redesign since the 2007 model year. In the meantime, Ford beat Toyota off the line with its 2021 F-150 PowerBoost hybrid. For the 2022 model year, Toyota aims to make up lost ground with the Tundra i-Force Max hybrid.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
