Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Cars Reviews Part plug-in, part dragster, the Mercedes-AMG GLC63 is an SUV of many faces By Stephen Edelstein Close Stephen Edelstein/Digital Trends When it comes to electrifying performance cars, Mercedes-Benz believes there’s no silver bullet.
Design and interior Tech, infotainment, and driver assist Driving experience Gas mileage, electric range, and safety How DT would configure this car The automaker’s Mercedes-AMG performance division has already engineered EVs like the AMG EQE SUV and the S63 AMG E Performance sedan, a plug-in hybrid that pairs electric assist with one of the brand’s traditional V8 engines. AMG’s latest electrified model — a hot-rodded version of the GLC-Class compact crossover SUV and a rival to performance SUVs like the BMW X3 M and Porsche Macan — sits somewhere in between those extremes.
Arriving in showrooms in the second half of 2024 as a 2025 model, the Mercedes-AMG GLC63 S E Performance, as it’s formally known, is a plug-in hybrid like the latest S63 — but one that uses electric power to compensate for a radically downsized engine. Instead of a big V8 like the S63 and last-generation GLC63, it uses a more economical turbocharged four-cylinder engine. Instead of treating electrification like necessary medicine, this AMG plug-in hybrid embraces its possibilities.
2024 Mercedes-AMG S63 E Performance first drive review: high-performance plug-in Mercedes-Benz EQE SUV first drive review: ’90s look, cutting-edge tech Mercedes-Benz GLC-Class takes a subtle approach to tech Design and interior The GLC63 applies subtle styling changes to an already subtle redesign of the base GLC, which debuted for the 2023 model year looking pretty much like its predecessor. To that nondescript base, AMG adds a new grille with its trademark vertical slats, larger front air intakes, a rear diffuser, prominent tailpipes, and some exterior badging. Only true car enthusiasts will likely notice these differences, which gives the GLC63 a bit of added cool factor.
Stephen Edelstein/Digital Trends Like other GLC variants, the GLC63 is available in standard SUV and coupe body styles. The term “coupe” traditionally refers to a two-door car, but Mercedes and fellow German automakers BMW, Audi, and Porsche have stretched that term to include four-door cars with low, sloped rooflines. These vehicles are still true coupes in the sense that they offer less rear headroom and cargo space than conventional SUVs.
The GLC63 applies subtle styling changes to an already subtle redesign of the base GLC.
In standard SUV form, the GLC63 offers comparable cargo space to similarly-sized luxury SUVs like the BMW X3 and Porsche Macan. That’s one of the great things about an AMG Mercedes: Underneath the performance upgrades, it’s still a regular car.
The interior follows a familiar but satisfying recipe. Mercedes’ current interior design theme looks sharp. The angled dashboard, freestanding screens, and large round vents give the cabin a distinctive look and convey that this isn’t an ordinary Honda or Toyota. AMG models get the expected performance-car callouts, including a mix of microfiber and Nappa leather upholstery and optional sport seats with added bolstering.
Tech, infotainment, and driver assist The infotainment system carries over from non-AMG GLC models, meaning it includes a 12.3-inch digital instrument cluster and an 11.9-inch touchscreen. Both are freestanding, with the touchscreen angled slightly toward the driver to create a more cockpit-like feel, according to Mercedes. Wireless Apple CarPlay and Android Auto are standard as well.
Stephen Edelstein/Digital Trends The screen setup and underlying Mercedes-Benz User Experience (MBUX) operating system are similar to other recent Mercedes models, such as the S-Class and C-Class sedans. As in those vehicles, it’s hard to find fault with the interface, which uses what Mercedes calls a “Zero Layer” arrangement that eschews menu pages for small widgets displayed side by side, or the graphics. Instead of traditional dials, for example, the instrument cluster uses a cool wave pattern for the tachometer. Mercedes’ voice control is also excellent, so much so that we ended up using it by default instead of fiddling with the touchscreen.
It’s hard to find fault with the infotainment interface.
The GLC63 also adds a built-in data logger, dubbed AMG Track Pace, that can record lap times and data traces for things like steering angle and brake pedal use at racetracks. That kind of data can be useful for improving driving technique and shaving tenths of a second off lap times, but we doubt many owners will take a luxury SUV to a racetrack and make use of this feature.
Like the rest of the GLC lineup, the GLC63 includes expected driver-assist features like adaptive cruise control and lane-keep assist, but you won’t find any cutting-edge tech like the Drive Pilot system now rolling out in limited areas on the Mercedes S-Class and EQS.
 This car just isn’t about that. All of the tech in the GLC63 goes into making the driving experience more involving, not less.
Driving experience A complex powertrain makes good use of both gasoline and electricity. It starts with a 2.0-liter turbocharged four-cylinder engine that by itself produces 469 horsepower and 402 pound-feet of torque, with a small electric motor to keep the turbo spinning at power-producing speeds. This makes it the most powerful series-production four-cylinder engine in the world, according to Mercedes.
Stephen Edelstein/Digital Trends The gasoline engine, which is coupled to a nine-speed automatic transmission, could easily power the car by itself, but Mercedes also included an electric motor mounted at the rear axle along with its own two-speed transmission and a limited-slip differential. A 6.1-kilowatt-hour battery pack allows for 107 horsepower of continuous output from this motor, or 201 hp in short bursts. Combined output is 671 hp and 752 lb-ft of torque, or 168 hp and 236 lb-ft more than the last GLC63 got from its 4.0-liter twin-turbocharged V8.
Mercedes says the GLC63 will reach 60 mph from a standstill in 3.4 seconds. For reference, the GLC63’s main rival, the BMW X3 M , gets 503 hp from a non-hybrid powertrain in top Competition form. But despite a major power advantage, the Mercedes is only 0.3 seconds quicker than the BMW. Both have top-speed governors, with the Mercedes limited to 171 mph and the BMW reaching 177 mph with the optional M Performance Package.
When unleashed, the GLC63 feels dramatic enough to justify the AMG badge.
Regardless, a sub-4.0-second run from zero to 60 mph is still impressive for any vehicle, let alone a luxury SUV. Also impressive is the array of hardware Mercedes used to make the GLC63 handle less like an SUV and more like a sports car. Adaptive suspension can be made luxuriously soft or sports-car firm, and an active roll stabilization system keeps the body from leaning over in corners. Rear-axle steering and beefed-up brakes (with 15.4-inch front and 14.6-inch rear rotors) are included as well.
Between the mix of gasoline and electric power, drive modes, and individual settings for things like suspension, steering weight, and regenerative braking, this is a car of many personalities. It’s possible to dial everything down and create a comfortable cruiser barely perceptible as a performance car, or drive in electric mode with all of the chassis settings in hardcore mode for a sporty EV-like experience. And if you select all of the most aggressive settings, you get an eager, snorting animal that feels like it’s tugging at its leash when you’re forced to trundle through a small town at low speeds.
When unleashed on a twisty road, the GLC63 feels dramatic enough to justify the AMG badge. But it’s not quite as sharp as conventional performance SUVs like the BMW X3 M and Porsche Macan , which saps confidence. The other German performance SUVs can feel smaller and lighter than they actually are, but not this Mercedes. And while the plug-in hybrid powertrain is an impressive technical achievement, it’s not exactly charming. Full-throttle acceleration doesn’t feel as intense as the numbers suggest, and instead of the classic sounds of an internal combustion engine or the stark silence of an EV, the GLC63’s soundtrack is an odd mix of muted exhaust sounds and whines and whistles from its many other mechanical components.
Gas mileage, electric range, and safety Fuel economy and electric range estimates weren’t available at the time of publication, but it’s safe to say the GLC63 is more about performance than efficiency. And because it’s the only plug-in car in its competitive set, and the model it replaces had a twin-turbo V8 rated at just 17 mpg combined, the bar is pretty low.
Safety ratings are also to be determined, as the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety (IIHS) and National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) hadn’t released any for the latest GLC models at the time of publication. When those safety ratings do arrive, it’s unclear if ratings for lesser GLC models will carry over to the GLC63.
How DT would configure this car Mercedes doesn’t offer many options beyond paint colors, wheels, and carbon fiber trim, but that’s not the only question to ask when considering an AMG GLC63. This is Mercedes we’re talking about, so this plug-in hybrid performance SUV will share a crowded showroom with other models sharing some major ingredients.
The same plug-in hybrid powertrain is used in the AMG C63 S E Performance sedan. That means you still get 671 hp, but in a lighter sedan body with a lower center of gravity. That sacrifices some cargo space, and rear-seat passengers will be a little less comfortable, but it’s the obvious choice when it comes to driving dynamics.
Stephen Edelstein/Digital Trends By the time the GLC63 reaches showrooms, Mercedes will also have an AMG GLC43 model available. This essentially ditches the electric part of the GLC63 powertrain, keeping the gasoline engine as a standalone power source. The GLC43 still boasts 416 hp and will do zero to 60 mph in 4.7 seconds, according to Mercedes. It’s not part of the electrified zeitgeist, but it may be easier to live with than the dauntingly complex GLC63.
The GLC63 represents a middle ground between AMG’s traditional performance cars and EVs. While it’s much more entertaining than AMG’s only current all-electric SUV — the AMG EQE SUV — it’s still not a replacement for the best internal-combustion performance SUVs. It checks boxes with a powerful gasoline engine and plug-in hybrid system, but in a way that makes the GLC63 feel like a placeholder until more engaging all-electric performance cars arrive.
Editors' Recommendations Mercedes-AMG EQE SUV first drive review: a better electric SUV Mercedes-Maybach EQS SUV is old-school luxury — electrified We need more 7-passenger EVs, but the 2023 Mercedes EQS SUV has room to improve Mercedes-Benz EQS SUV is a luxury SUV for the family Mercedes-AMG EQE proves performance EVs are here to stay Cars Known for its fire-breathing V8s and power-dense turbo fours, Mercedes-AMG has announced it will reinvent its range in the 2020s by placing a major focus on electrification. Hybrid, and even electric, sports cars are around the corner.
Mercedes-Benz's high-performance arm started dabbling in electrification when it released the Project One, a limited-edition hypercar powered by a gasoline-electric hybrid powertrain sourced from its hugely successful Formula One cars. As we reported in 2018, some of the technology developed for this project will trickle down to the more accessible members of the company's range, including a few models that haven't been publicly revealed yet.
Cars The Mercedes-AMG C63 is defined by its V8 engine. That 4.0-liter twin-turbocharged motor sets this Merc apart from other fast German luxury cars. But Mercedes' AMG performance division could replace the sonorous, tire-smoking V8 with a four-cylinder hybrid powertrain, reports Autocar. Despite decreasing the cylinder count by half, Autocar claims performance won't suffer.
The next-generation C63 will go on sale in early 2022 with a version of Mercedes-AMG's M139 2.0-liter turbocharged four-cylinder engine under its hood, according to Autocar. This is the same engine used in the Mercedes-AMG A45 hatchback, and it makes 416 horsepower and 369 pound-feet of torque in that car. The A45 isn't sold in the United States, but we will get the same engine in the AMG CLA45 "four-door coupe," albeit tuned to 382 hp and 354 lb.-ft.
Cars Previous Next Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
