Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Cars Reviews Watch your back, Tesla. Volvo’s EX30 just raised the bar on EV value By Stephen Edelstein Close Stephen Edelstein / Digital Trends Automakers are quick to say that electric cars are the future, but most aren’t acting that way. In an effort to convince customers to overlook teething problems with charging infrastructure, amortize major investments in battery manufacturing as quickly as possible, and maybe replicate a bit of that Tesla magic, automakers have been emphasizing performance and tech gimmicks instead of what really matters: building cars people can afford. Change is coming, though, and from an unexpected source.
Design and interior Tech, infotainment, and driver assist Driving experience Range, charging, and safety How DT would configure this car Volvo is known for safety and sensible Swedish design, not value. But the 2025 Volvo EX30 undercuts EVs from mainstream brands like Hyundai, Kia, and Volkswagen in price without compromising range, features, or style. Pricing starts at just $36,245 for the base Single Motor Extended Range Core model, and even the maxed-out price of $47,895 for a Twin Motor Performance Ultra looks inexpensive compared to the stratospheric heights some EV prices can reach when all option boxes are checked.
That emphasis on affordability could make the EX30 a game changer when it reaches dealerships in the United States next summer. But to truly make an impact, the EX30 has to be more than just a cheaper Volvo. It has to be a good car.
Nissan wants the 2023 Ariya to be its comeback EV, but the bar has been raised 2021 Volvo XC40 Recharge first drive review: Refined EV subtlety Design and interior Stephen Edelstein/Digital Trends The exterior updates Volvo’s current minimal aesthetic. The grille-less front fascia and eight-bit lighting elements also appear on the larger Volvo EX90 , but that model hasn’t gone on sale yet, so the EX30 looks truly fresh. A tall hood and upright roofline give the EX30 a degree of SUV presence (to be enhanced by a forthcoming Cross Country variant), but its small size and low overall height give it a car-like quality. It’s a look that’s hard to categorize, but still distinctively Volvo.
The EX30 isn’t just small for a Volvo. It’s 20.3 inches shorter than a Tesla Model Y, 15.8 inches shorter than a Hyundai Ioniq 5 , and 13.8 inches shorter than a Volkswagen ID.4.
 However, it’s about as tall as these other EVs and thus offers comparable headroom in both rows (front-seat headroom is actually two inches greater than the Hyundai). The Volvo also comes close in first-row legroom, but its more compact proportions compromise rear legroom, which is appreciably less than the Hyundai, Tesla, or VW.
The EX30’s look is hard to categorize, but still distinctively Volvo.
The EX30’s small size becomes more apparent when looking at cargo space. This may be an SUV, but its 14.1 cubic feet of cargo space with the rear seats in place is less than what you get in a Nissan Leaf hatchback. Fold the second row and you get 31.9 cubic feet, about the same as a VW ID.4 offers with its rear seats up. And while Volvo did include a frunk, it’s really useful only for storing the charging cable.
The interior blends minimalism and cost savings. Volvo didn’t include an instrument cluster, moving the speedometer to the central touchscreen, the audio system has a sound-bar design with speakers mounted at the base of the windshield, and the window switches are mounted on the center console rather than the doors. This is an appropriately minimalist design for the product of a Scandinavian automaker, but it also likely helps Volvo hit the EX30’s relatively low price point. Other cool details include metal door pull rings that blend into the door trim, and available recycled materials like Particle Deco, a spackled material that looks a bit like linoleum countertop, but is actually made from recycled window frames.
Tech, infotainment, and driver assist Stephen Edelstein/Digital Trends The EX30 comes standard with a 12.3-inch portrait-oriented touchscreen that, like other Volvo models, runs an Android-based infotainment system with Google Built-in features including Google Maps, Google Assistant, and Google Play. Wireless Apple CarPlay is included as well, while Android Auto is basically redundant because all major functions are already Google-based.
Volvo packed a lot of information onto the EX30’s screen. A top bar includes a speed readout and other information that would normally be shown on an instrument cluster. Google Maps occupies the middle of the screen, with control bars below similar to a computer’s home screen. Only instead of Microsoft Word, here you’ll find the climate controls, audio, and vehicle settings.
The touchscreen interface has a learning curve that’s steeper than others.
Considering how much needs to be done on the screen — even the mirrors need to be adjusted through the vehicle settings menu — operation is fairly smooth. As with other touchscreen interfaces, though, tapping the screen to adjust the temperature isn’t as easy as using a physical knob. And looking on the screen to find out the source of the latest driver-assist system chime takes some getting used to. Owners may get used to it, but this interface definitely has a learning curve that’s steeper than others.
Volvo is saving its most advanced driver-assist tech for more expensive models like the flagship EX90 , but the EX30 still offers the basics. All models get standard blind spot monitoring, front and rear collision mitigation, a driver attention monitor, and a door-alert feature that warns the driver if they are about to open the door into the path of an oncoming vehicle or cyclist.
Volvo’s Pilot Assist system, which maintains speed, following distance, and lane positioning on highways (but still requires hands on the wheel and eyes on the road) is included on the top Ultra grade. This model also adds lane change assist, a 360-degree camera system with 3D view, and a park-assist system capable of maneuvering the EX30 into parking spaces with minimal driver involvement.
Driving experience Stephen Edelstein/Digital Trends The EX30’s base rear-wheel drive Single Motor Extended Range powertrain is good for 268 horsepower and 253 pound-feet of torque. The all-wheel drive Twin Motor Performance is rated at 422 hp and 400 lb-ft of torque. Both have a 69-kilowatt-hour battery pack, although useable capacity is listed as 64 kWh. A smaller battery pack with a different chemistry will also be offered outside the U.S.
Volvo claims the Twin Motor Performance will do zero to 60 mph in 3.4 seconds in its screen-selectable Performance AWD mode. That’s the same as a Mercedes-AMG GLC63 S E Performance , a 671-hp thoroughbred from the German automaker’s AMG performance division. It’s also 0.1 second quicker than a Tesla Model Y Performance, which has a base price nearly $7,000 higher than the Volvo. And even the base single-motor version will reach 60 mph in a respectable 5.1 seconds.
The driving experience is comparable to more expensive Volvo models.
Improbably quick electric cars are nothing new, but the EX30 makes things even more fun thanks to its unassuming form. Tesla drivers are in for a surprise when they pull up next to one at a stop light. That being said, nothing else about the EX30 is as sporty as its acceleration. This is still a Volvo, and that means it has a laid-back driving experience that’s satisfying, but it won’t get your pulse racing.
Instead, the EX30 provides the solid feel and refined driving experience of more expensive Volvo models.
 It’s comfortable without being too soft and floaty and is impressively quiet (although wind noise does pick up a bit at higher speeds). Volvo also provides true one-pedal driving, allowing drivers to rely on regenerative braking instead of pushing the brake pedal in most situations, as well as the ability to turn it off for those who prefer an experience more like a gasoline car.
Range, charging, and safety Stephen Edelstein/Digital Trends Official range ratings won’t be available until closer to the EX30’s summer 2024 arrival in the U.S., but Volvo estimates 275 miles for single-motor models and 265 miles for dual-motor models. As things currently sit, the base EX30 looks set to deliver more range than a base Tesla Model Y (260 miles), Hyundai Ioniq 5 (220 miles), or Volkswagen ID.4 (209 miles) at a lower price. Unless those brands increase range or lower prices in the coming months, that is.
The EX30 can DC fast charge at 153 kilowatts, delivering a 10% to 80% charge in 26.5 minutes, Volvo estimates. That’s adequate, but the EX30 lacks the high-power charging of the Ioniq 5 and other models based on its E-GMP platform, which can recover range more quickly.
Crash-test ratings will also have to wait until closer to launch. Expect the same four-year, 50,000-mile, basic warranty, four-year, 50,000-mile powertrain warranty, and an eight-year, 100,000-mile battery warranty as other Volvo EVs.
How DT would configure this car Stephen Edelstein/Digital Trends The Twin Motor Performance will make headlines with its quick acceleration, but the Single Motor Extended Range is the most compelling EX30 model. It boasts 275 miles of range, is a bit more fun to drive thanks to a more responsive front end, and, aside from more power, doesn’t give up much in terms of features. Getting all available driver-assist features does require upgrading from the $36,245 Core trim level to the $41,895 Ultra, however.
Even with options, the EX30 looks pretty good compared to other small electric SUVs. The Volvo offers more range at a lower price than alternatives like the Hyundai Ioniq 5 , Tesla Model Y, or Volkswagen ID.4 — and with the style and road manners of a true Volvo. From behind the wheel, the EX30 fulfills the promise of its brand, feeling like an upgrade over EVs from mainstream brands. It’s a less expensive car that doesn’t feel cheap.
The EX30’s relatively limited cargo space and quirky interior design might turn off some buyers. And because Volvo will build the EX30 in China (and also Belgium, in 2025), it won’t qualify for the $7,500 federal tax credit U.S.-assembled EVs like the Model Y and ID.4 can get, closing the price gap a bit. But Volvo’s new entry-level model is still a good car which, combined with its low base price, impressive range, and high level of feature content, makes it a game changer. The EX30 resets expectations for mainstream EVs.
Editors' Recommendations Volvo EX30 price, range, release date, specs, and more 2022 Volvo C40 Recharge first drive review: EV fashion statement Electrify America’s home station lets you charge your EV while watching Netflix Volvo Cars Lucid Motors has become the latest automaker to announce that it will adopt the North American Charging Standard (NACS) – also known as "the Tesla plug" – for its electric vehicles.
The move follows in the footsteps of more than a dozen other automakers that have also adopted Tesla’s charging connector, among them General Motors, Ford, Toyota, BMW, Jaguar Land Rover, Volvo, and Honda.
Cars General Motors-owned Cruise has halted production of its fully driverless vehicle -- the Origin -- just over a week after it suspended robotaxi operations nationwide following a number of troubling incidents involving its cars.
The news was announced by Cruise CEO Kyle Vogt during a meeting with staff on Monday, according to Forbes, which obtained audio of the gathering.
Cars The Ram brand is finally taking an electrified approach, and by resurrecting the Ramcharger name, no less. Alongside the new 2025 Ram 1500, the company has unveiled the new 2025 Ram 1500 Ramcharger, a new plug-in hybrid that Ram touts as offering "unlimited battery electric range." The new truck is one of a number of electrified trucks, the most well-known of which include the fully-electric Ford F-150 Lightning and the new Chevrolet Silverado EV. But instead of being fully electric, the 1500 Ramcharger is a plug-in hybrid, meaning that it has an electric motor and battery, and a gas tank and engine.
The plug-in approach It's perhaps a smart move. Electric trucks show a lot of promise -- but they start to falter a little when it comes to things like towing and hauling heavy loads. Keeping the 1500 Ramcharger a hybrid means that with no load or light ones, the truck can zip around town on electric power -- and when necessary, it can switch the engine on to tow or haul. It could well be the perfect combo for many truck owners who at least occasionally need that extra oomph, but who still could stand to save some cash -- and go a little easier on the environment - when simply driving around town.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
