Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Tesla Supercharger Reset Screen in Tesla Tesla Phone Tesla Roadster Tesla Model X vs Tesla Model Y Tesla Optimus Tesla Destination Chargers Home Cars Features The BMW i4 is more luxurious than the Tesla Model S, and costs way less By Christian de Looper Close BMW The Tesla Model S is the original cool electric car. It did away with the concept that EVs had to be nerdy, small, low-range cars — and instead offered a sleek and stylish design, as well as a modern interior. But over the years, a ton of competition has popped up, and these days, the Model S has to go up against some seriously great cars.
It’s all about the inside Minimalism is a double-edged sword Which car is better? Like, for example, the BMW i4.
BMW has been firing on all cylinders when it comes to electric cars, and now offers a range of options. The BMW i4 is BMW’s most affordable electric car right now, starting at $52,200, but it still offers everything you would expect from a BMW experience — including a luxurious interior that kind of puts the Model S to shame. That’s right, the BMW i4 may cost tens of thousands of dollars less than the Model S, but if you want luxury, it’s a better choice.
It’s all about the inside Of course, the experience of luxury in a car really has almost nothing to do with the exterior of a car — it’s all about what’s on the inside.
Tesla launches more affordable Model S and Model X, but there’s a catch Tesla pulls latest Full Self-Driving beta less than a day after release BMW i4 brings the ultimate driving machine into EV territory The Tesla Model S has far from an ugly interior. In fact, the interior of the Model S is actually quite nice. It has a big display at the front for infotainment, with a smaller instrument display ahead of the steering wheel. It comes in three interior colors — black, black-and-white, and cream.
Ronan Glon / Digital Trends The Model S does indeed look premium. But Tesla still has some work to do.
The BMW i4 eDrive40’s interior is a lot busier. There are more buttons and controls, which may look a little less modern, but it makes things a lot easier to actually use. More importantly, the car has plush leather upholstery throughout, and it’s not only very comfortable, but clearly quite durable too. The i4 also has a light wood trim, which also looks pretty good — along with the black-and-white color-scheme.
I’ll be the first to admit that much of this is down to personal preference, and to be fair, the tech in the Model S is certainly better, both from a hardware and a software perspective.
The Model S has a bigger screen, with a much better infotainment system. But BMW has decades of experience in building high-end, premium interiors for cars, and it shows.
Minimalism is a double-edged sword Comparing the BMW i4 and the Model S highlights some more general trends in the industry. Tesla went all-in on minimalism, and there’s a place for that. But I think it goes a little too far. The result of everything moving into the screen is that it makes things harder to control, which can in turn be dangerous.
Tesla Other companies are struggling to figure out if going as minimalistic as Tesla is the right choice for them. Some have moved things like climate controls into the screen, but kept seat adjustments separate. Others, like BMW, have kept pretty much every control out of the screen, only using it for maps and audio controls. That, I think, isn’t quite far enough.
For me, a good rule of thumb is that any control that you use almost every time you drive your car, like climate controls, deserves its own space. Controls that you only really use every now and then can be moved into the infotainment screen. Neither BMW or Tesla have perfected that — in fact, very few companies have.
Which car is better? So far, I’ve avoided having to say whether or not the BMW i4 or the Tesla Model S is actually better — I’ve just said that the i4 is more luxurious.
 The Model S, however, does still justify being a more expensive car. It’s ultimately a bit better of an option.
There are a few reasons for this. For starters, it has a better range and charges faster than the BMW i4. Not only that, but the infotainment system is much better, and it has a little more space. It’s generally a better car, as an EV.
Still, if you’re looking for a luxurious sedan and don’t want to spend Model S kind of money, then the BMW i4 is an excellent option — and easily one of the best electric sedans in its price range.
Editors' Recommendations The Tesla Model Y is far from my favorite EV, but I’m pretty close to buying one Apple’s rumored car could cost the same as a Tesla Model S Watch Elon Musk’s high-speed start to Tesla’s Model S Plaid delivery event A gaming Tesla? New Model S to use same GPU as PlayStation 5 and Xbox Series X Tesla gives the Model S over 1,000 hp and a spaceship-like steering wheel Features Tesla Cars Ever the showman, Elon Musk never fails to surprise. Between Tuesday's Battery Day event and a shareholder meeting, the CEO of Tesla unveiled new products, new features, and news galore, including an unbelievably fast new Model S car, revolutionary updates to electric battery technology, a better self-piloting system for the company's cars, and more. Here's a recap of all the highlights from the most interesting car company on the planet.
Model S Plaid Tesla announced a new Model S Plaid car Tuesday that can go from 0 to 60 mph in under 2 seconds and has a range of more than 520 miles.
The vehicle — which is listed for $140,000 on Tesla’s website — is available to order now and will be shipped by the end of 2021.
Cars Tesla announced a new Model S Plaid car Tuesday that can go from 0 to 60 mph in under 2 seconds and has a range of more than 520 miles.
The vehicle — which is listed for $140,000 on Tesla's website — is available to order now and will be shipped by the end of 2021.
Cars Check out Tesla’s new Model S Plaid tearing around the Laguna Seca Raceway in Monterey, California, last weekend.
The company posted a couple of videos -- one of them in-car -- shortly after Tesla boss Elon Musk unveiled the new electric vehicle at a special event on Tuesday, September 22.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
