Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Tesla Supercharger Reset Screen in Tesla Tesla Phone Tesla Roadster Tesla Model X vs Tesla Model Y Tesla Optimus Tesla Destination Chargers Home Cars Products BMW iX vs Tesla Model Y: miles apart on price, but closer than you think By Christian de Looper Close The Tesla Model Y is often considered the go-to pick for those who want a large electric crossover, and for good reason. It offers a great range, a still relatively modern design, and additional features like a well-designed infotainment system. But it’s far from the only option out there — and in fact, there are some seriously great alternatives, like the BMW iX , for example.
Design Interior and tech Performance Range and charging Pricing and availability Overall winner: Tesla Model Y I know what you’re thinking — the BMW iX is way more expensive than the Tesla Model Y. It starts at $87,100, while the Model Y starts at $43,990. This is perhaps not the fairest of comparisons out there, but you might be surprised how well the Model Y does, considering the fact that it’s around half the price of the iX. The one you buy will ultimately depend on your priorities, but regardless, it’s important to know the similarities — and the differences.
Design The first thing you’ll notice about these cars is their design, and in that respect, they’re pretty different.
Tesla Model S vs. Model X: Which is right for you? The BMW i4 is more luxurious than the Tesla Model S, and costs way less Volkswagen ID.4 vs Tesla Model Y Exterior design is one area in which Tesla puts its minimalism ethos on display. The car offers the same overall look and shape as all of Tesla’s other current models, with its flush door handles and largely bare nose. The car has slim, slanted headlights, along with a glass roof, and while it is starting to age a little, for the most part, the Model Y’s design still looks modern and sleek.
Tesla Inc The BMW iX is a little busier in design, and probably a little more controversial too. The car offers the large front grille that BMW has been showing on other modern BMWs, and it’s a bit of a strange approach. The headlights are nice and slim though, as are the taillights, which complement a rear that looks a whole lot nicer than the front.
Ultimately, of course, design is subjective. The Model Y is a more minimalistic, but it also feels a little safe. The BMW is more unique, but you may or may not like the overall look.
Winner: Tie Interior and tech The interior of the Model Y, as you would expect, continues the ethos of minimalism from the exterior. The car has very few physical controls, stark black or white materials (like the vegan leather), and a large screen at the front. That display sits in at 15.4 inches, and it’s how you’ll interact with Tesla’s relatively well-designed infotainment system. The car doesn’t support CarPlay or Android Auto, but its mapping system works great, and it supports many of the top streaming services , including the likes of Spotify and Apple Music. It’s also where you’ll access the various cameras dotted around the Tesla, as well as the self-driving features you’ll have access to.
The interior of the BMW iX is less minimalistic, though still quite premium. After having driven both of these cars, I can say the iX’s seats are more comfortable, and the materials seem a little more premium. The fact that there are at least some physical controls is nice too — even though you’ll still have to access things like climate controls through the display.
Ronan Glon / Digital Trends Unlike the Model Y, the iX has two displays at the front — one for infotainment and one for instrument monitoring. The displays are high-end and vibrant, even though they’re not as big as the Model Y’s screen.
BMW’s iDrive infotainment isn’t as well-designed either. It’s not horrible — and it’s better than it used to be. But it’s generally difficult to navigate and, at times, slow. Thankfully, the iX supports CarPlay and Android Auto.
Overall, the tech in the Model Y is more advanced, however the interior of the BMW is nicer. This one’s a tie.
Winner: Tie Performance Tesla has a bit of a head start when it comes to developing EVs, and its cars are some of the best-performing ones out there. The Model Y is available in three different variants, including the standard Model Y, the Model Y Long Range, and the Model Y Performance. In the base model, you’ll get from 0 to 60 miles per hour in 4.8 seconds, however with the Model Y Performance, you’ll reach that speed in only 3.5 seconds. That’s pretty quick. The base Model Y comes in rear-wheel drive — however, the Model Y Long Range and Model Y Performance both come in all-wheel drive.
Tesla The BMW iX is available in two models — the iX M60 and the iX xDrive50. The xDrive50 is the base model, and it will get you from 0 to 60 miles per hour in 4.4 seconds, while the iX M60 gets there in 3.6 seconds. Both models come in all-wheel drive.
The slowest BMW is faster than the slowest Tesla, and of all the models, the Tesla Model Y Performance is the quickest. Tesla is getting the win here.
Winner: Tesla Model Y Range and charging Range and charging have long been an advantage of Tesla cars. The base Model Y offers a range of 260 miles per hour, which isn’t bad — but if you really want range, you’ll upgrade to the Long Range model, which hits 330 miles. All Tesla Model Ys have a charging speed of 250 kilowatts, which is pretty fast and means that you’ll be able to charge from 10% to 80% in around 25 minutes — that isn’t bad.
Ronan Glon / Digital Trends The BMW iX xDrive50 has a range between 305 miles and 325 miles, depending on the wheel size that you go for. The iX M60 has a range of 288 miles, which is still quite good. Unfortunately, the BMW iX charges at only 150kW, which means that it’ll take up to around 40 minutes to get from 0 to 80% battery.
The Model Y has a longer range, if only by a little — but its faster charging speed cements its victory here.
Winner: Tesla Model Y Pricing and availability There’s another win for Tesla in sight. Both the Model Y and the BMW iX are now available readily, so if you want one, you can get your hands on one. But while the Tesla Model Y starts at $43,990 for the base model, the iX starts at $87,100 — and if you go for the iX M60, you’ll pay at least $111,500. That’s no minor difference.
This section doesn’t need to be long. This one goes to Tesla.
Tesla Model Y Overall winner: Tesla Model Y The BMW iX is much more expensive than the Tesla Model Y, but it turns out, it doesn’t really do enough to justify its price tag. When you get right down to it, the main reason to buy the BMW is the more luxurious interior. But if you do go for the Tesla, you’ll be getting a slightly longer range, a faster charging speed, and a faster performance depending on the model you go for. That’s all at $40,000 less.
Editors' Recommendations Tesla Model Y vs. Nissan Ariya: Can Tesla take out Nissan’s electric crossover? Tesla Model Y vs. Hyundai Ioniq 5: Which crossover reigns supreme? Tesla Model 3 vs. Tesla Model Y: Bigger or cheaper? The Tesla Model Y is far from my favorite EV, but I’m pretty close to buying one Tesla launches more affordable Model S and Model X, but there’s a catch Tesla Versus Cars The Tesla Model Y is one of the most popular EVs on the market, thanks to its generous size, support for Tesla’s excellent charging infrastructure, and great interior tech. But while other carmakers have traditionally played catchup with Tesla, these days there are plenty of alternatives to the Model Y — like the Kia EV6.
The EV6 isn’t as immediately recognizable as the Model Y, but it still sports a sleek design and solid range. Like the Model Y, it’s also available in a few different variants, so you can find the right model for your needs.
Cars The BMW i4 and Tesla Model 3 are two of the hottest electric cars on the market today. Both vehicles offer a range of features designed to make driving easy and efficient, as well as attractive styling. But each has its advantages and disadvantages, and there is much that sets them apart in terms of performance, technology, convenience, and cost.
Deciding between the two? That's why we've put together this guide. Here are the differences and similarities between the Tesla Model 3 and BMW i4, and why you might want one over the other.
Design Cars Every major carmaker, from Ford to Volvo and beyond, makes an EV these days, but Tesla has had a bit of a head start. As a result, it now offers a well-rounded lineup of electric cars, including sedans and SUVs. Tesla’s cars are still some of the best EVs out there, and if you’re in the market for an electric car, you’re likely considering a Tesla.
Larger cars, like SUVs and crossovers, are the most popular in the U.S. right now — and Tesla offers two of them: The Tesla Model X and the Tesla Model Y. Both have their advantages and disadvantages, and there are a few major differences, including price. Here’s everything you need to know about the two cars and why one or the other might be better for your needs.
Tesla Model X vs. Tesla Model Y: Design Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
