Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Cars Features The F-150 Lightning excels at everything but one crucial truck task By Christian de Looper Close The Ford F-150 Lightning was one of the first electric trucks out there, and to this day, it’s still one of only a few. The truck offers that much- loved F-150 design and hefty size, but swaps out the gas-powered engine for a super-quick electric powertrain that gives it the kind of zip you normally wouldn’t expect from a truck at all.
Technically a beast Range anxiety Not all truck drivers are the same The future of trucks But there are still a few things that make buying and using an electric truck a little … challenging. After all, the use case for trucks is usually a little different than it is for a car, and that may complicate whether or not an electric truck is right for your needs.
Technically a beast The Ford F-150 Lightning is incredibly powerful.
 That’s immediately clear just by hitting the accelerator. It’s very fast, especially for a vehicle of its size — and some variants will get from 0 to 60 miles per hour in under 4 seconds. Many much smaller and lighter electric cars can’t even match that.
Andrew Martonik / Digital Trends It’s able to tow heavy loads too. The F-150 Lightning is capable of towing up to 10,000 pounds, depending on the model you get. You’ll need the XLT or Lariat trim to tow that much, but even lower-end models can still tow up to 5,000 pounds, which isn’t bad at all. That’s enough power to tow a relatively large trailer.
Electric trucks aren’t ready for the big leagues — but I still loved the F-150 Lightning AT&T brings 5G cellular connectivity to Ford F-150 Lightning and production line President Biden drives Ford F-150 Lightning electric-truck prototype It’s a joy to drive too. I love driving larger vehicles, and the F-150 Lightning is kitted out with touches that make the experience of using it even better. For example, the frunk has a drain hole that allows it to serve as a cooler or ice chest, and you can hose it out to clean it. There are power outlets dotted around it for things like power tools. And it feels as rugged inside as it looks outside.
Range anxiety But before you plan to buy the F-150 Lightning for your next long-distance road trip, you may want to think twice. Why? Well, it can technically tow those super-heavy loads, but it won’t get you very far.
Even after a few years of electric trucks being available, towing large loads still has a significant impact on the range of an electric truck. And considering the range of the F-150 Lightning isn’t all that great in the first place, using the truck to tow things like a trailer may just not be feasible at all for your needs. The current Ford F-150 Lightning has a range of up to around 320 miles.
The impact of towing heavier loads may be bigger than you might think, too. According to a report from MotorTrend , towing a 7,218-pound trailer brought the range down to just 90 miles, while towing a 3,140-pound trailer still brought it down to only 115 miles, which is considerably less than half the range of the truck when it’s not towing anything.
Andrew Martonik / Digital Trends Even if you’re not towing at all, however, if you’re planning on carrying heavier loads in the bed of the truck, you should still expect to see a serious decrease in range when you do so.
To be clear, this isn’t an issue that’s isolated to electric trucks.
 Most estimates indicate that for every 100 extra pounds that a truck tows, gas mileage will be reduced by around 2%. So, towing a 7,218-pound trailer would decrease the gas mileage by around 72%. Considering that a gas-powered F-150 can get a little over 500 miles on a full tank of gas, towing that same load would bring the range down to 150 miles or so.
The difference? That’s still quite a bit more than 90 miles, and you can easily fill up a gas tank in a few minutes when you need to. With the F-150 Lightning, you’ll have to charge every few hours, and doing so will take 30 minutes or so.
Not all truck drivers are the same None of this is to say that you shouldn’t buy the F-150 Lightning. It’s just to say that you should go in knowing what to expect.
Let’s be real.
Plenty of truck drivers buy trucks simply because they like them — not because they’re constantly hauling big loads and towing trailers. I get it. Trucks are cool! Not only do they give you enough size to potentially remain safer on the roads, but they have that added layer of versatility. You may not be a construction worker, but being able to move between houses without renting a U-Haul can be helpful. Or maybe you’re that saint of a friend who helps everyone else when they move.
Andrew Martonik / Digital Trends And there are plenty of use cases between towing a trailer and driving a totally empty truck. Maybe you’re a construction worker who regularly hauls tools and materials, and can charge your truck on-site or at home. These loads are unlikely to veer into the thousands of pounds, and you’ll still likely get enough of a range to drive around town as needed.
But maybe you are someone who really plans to get a lot out of owning a truck, like towing large trailers and hauling very heavy loads. In that case, perhaps buying a gas-powered truck, or a plug-in hybrid, is still the best course of action for your needs.
The future of trucks So what can solve this? Put simply, better batteries with more range, as well as faster charging tech. We’ll never get trucks that offer the same range when towing a trailer as they do when not towing a trailer. Physics doesn’t work like that. But as battery tech improves and electric vehicles offer a better range, the impact of towing will steadily decrease.
Let’s assume you only get a third of the range when towing as you do when not towing. With a 300-mile range, you’ll end up with only 100 miles. But if your truck had 500 miles of range to start with, you’d get a much more manageable 160 miles of range or so. If solid-state battery tech really does deliver on the promise of 750 miles of range or more, you’ll end up with around 250 miles when towing. That’s impressive.
Christian de Looper / Digital Trends Charging plays a big role in making electric trucks more practical, too. A major reason it’s so much easier to tow with a gas-powered truck is that you can fill it up in a few short minutes, instead of having to wait nearly an hour. Fifteen-minute charges are a good goal for the next few years, but in the long term, hopefully we’ll eventually be able to fully charge an EV in only a few minutes. If that ever happens, it’s far off into the future, though.
Ultimately, after driving the F-150 Lightning for a week, I’ve found it to be an awesome electric truck. If you go into buying one with realistic expectations, you’ll love it — but if you expect to get the same towing experience from the F-150 Lightning as you would get from the gas-powered version, you’ll be disappointed.
Editors' Recommendations Ford is only making 2,000 of these matte black F-150 Lightnings. Here’s your first look Ford halts reservations for its all-electric F-150 Lightning pickup 2022 Ford F-150 Lightning: America’s bestselling vehicle goes electric Staff Picks: DT’s favorite automotive tech of 2020 Ford’s plan to go carbon neutral by 2050 is big on promises, light on details Features Ford Cars “Bring it on.” These are the words of Tesla boss Elon Musk, who on Monday accepted Ford’s challenge to another tug-of-war between his recently unveiled Cybertruck and an F-150 — the most popular pickup truck in the world. But now it seems Ford executives are having second thoughts about a rematch.
Cars Previous Next Cars Previous Next Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
