Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Cars Features Honda’s electric SUV is coming soon. Here’s what we know about the 2024 Prologue By Christian de Looper Close Honda Slowly but surely, every large car company is getting on board with electric cars. While most of them have released at least one electric model so far, some are still readying their first. Did you know, however, that Honda is not one of those companies? The Honda Clarity was taken off the market a few years ago, and finally, it noe looks like Honda is preparing to launch its first of a new generation of electric cars — the 2024 Honda Prologue SUV.
Design Interior and tech Performance Range and charging Price and release date The Prologue offers a different take on design compared to the Clarity by opting for a slightly more sensible tone. That’s unlike some companies that have taken the advent of the EV as an opportunity to completely revamp the design language of their cars.
Here’s everything you need to know about the all-electric 2024 Honda Prologue.
Tesla’s charger won. What EV buyers and owners need to know about NACS We put a classic car up against an electrified classic. Here’s what we learned Design The Honda Prologue won’t reinvent the wheel in terms of design. It’s not ugly, by any means, but it’s far from the futuristic spaceship that some look for when they buy an electric car.
Honda At the front, you’ll get a fairly typical SUV design, with slimmed-down headlights and a grille toward the bottom of the front. On the rear, you’ll find a slightly sportier look, with slim taillights and a Honda logo that stretches between those lights.
Overall, for an “SUV,” the Prologue looks relatively sporty and agile, with somewhat oversized wheels compared to the size of the body. Ultimately, of course, while the car is being marketed as an SUV, it’s likely to be closer in size to a crossover, like the Kia EV6 and Ford Mustang Mach-E.
Interior and tech The interior of the Honda Prologue also doesn’t change the game — but it does offer what looks to be a nice selection of physical buttons and controls compared to many of the modern alternatives. An 11.3-inch center display has Honda’s infotainment system built in. Thankfully, the car also supports Apple CarPlay and Android Auto — so you won’t have to use Honda’s own infotainment system if you don’t want to.
Honda The Prologue will offer heated front seats, dual-zone climate controls, and wireless charging — even in the lower-end base model. The car offers two rows and five seats, along with 25.2 cubic feet of storage space behind the second row.
Performance The Honda Prologue will come in three models — the Prologue EX, Prologue Touring, and Prologue Elite. There’s a front-wheel drive and all-wheel drive variant of both the EX and the Touring, with the Elite only coming in an all-wheel drive model. All of the all-wheel-drive configurations come with dual motors.
We don’t know all that much about the exact performance of the car. We do know that it’ll be built on GM’s Ultium platform , and it’s likely to offer similar specifications as the Chevrolet Equinox EV that’s built on the same platform. If so, we can expect a horsepower of around 210 for the front-wheel drive models, and close to 300 horsepower for the all-wheel drive models. Again, however, we’ll have to wait and see what exact numbers on the Prologue turn out to be.
Range and charging Honda Honda hasn’t released exact range numbers for the Prologue, however, it has said that it’s expecting to receive an Environmental Protrction Agency (EPA) range of 300 miles on a full charge. This, however, is for the front-wheel drive EX model, which presumably offers the lowest performance, thus delivering a higher range on a same-size battery. Higher-end models that perform better will likely offer a lower range. Generally, it’s expected that the Prologue will offer a range of between 250 and 300 miles.
Charging speed tops out at 155 kilowatts, which isn’t bad, but is a little low compared to many other electric cars out there right now. Honda says that the car will get 65 miles of range in around 10 minutes when connected to a DC fast charger capable of the maximum 155kW. Again, that’s not great — cars like the Kia EV6, with a charging speed of 350kW, can charge from 10% to 80% in under 20 minutes.
Price and release date Exact pricing for the Honda Prologue has yet to be released — but Honda has said that it will start in the “upper $40,000s.” In other words, you should expect the base model of the car to sell for around $48,000 or $49,000 — with higher-end models coming at a premium. It’s likely we’ll learn more about the pricing of the Prologue in the coming months.
Speaking of coming months, the Honda Prologue is set to go up for sale by the end of 2023, with deliveries of the car slated for early 2024. Exact dates have yet to be revealed.
Editors' Recommendations One of the best values in electric SUVs comes from the last brand you’d expect The Sony Honda Afeela car is peak CES, and I’m totally here for it The Honda E Prototype is the electric car Apple should have come out with Features Cars Lucid Motors has become the latest automaker to announce that it will adopt the North American Charging Standard (NACS) – also known as "the Tesla plug" – for its electric vehicles.
The move follows in the footsteps of more than a dozen other automakers that have also adopted Tesla’s charging connector, among them General Motors, Ford, Toyota, BMW, Jaguar Land Rover, Volvo, and Honda.
Cars General Motors-owned Cruise has halted production of its fully driverless vehicle -- the Origin -- just over a week after it suspended robotaxi operations nationwide following a number of troubling incidents involving its cars.
The news was announced by Cruise CEO Kyle Vogt during a meeting with staff on Monday, according to Forbes, which obtained audio of the gathering.
Cars The Ram brand is finally taking an electrified approach, and by resurrecting the Ramcharger name, no less. Alongside the new 2025 Ram 1500, the company has unveiled the new 2025 Ram 1500 Ramcharger, a new plug-in hybrid that Ram touts as offering "unlimited battery electric range." The new truck is one of a number of electrified trucks, the most well-known of which include the fully-electric Ford F-150 Lightning and the new Chevrolet Silverado EV. But instead of being fully electric, the 1500 Ramcharger is a plug-in hybrid, meaning that it has an electric motor and battery, and a gas tank and engine.
The plug-in approach It's perhaps a smart move. Electric trucks show a lot of promise -- but they start to falter a little when it comes to things like towing and hauling heavy loads. Keeping the 1500 Ramcharger a hybrid means that with no load or light ones, the truck can zip around town on electric power -- and when necessary, it can switch the engine on to tow or haul. It could well be the perfect combo for many truck owners who at least occasionally need that extra oomph, but who still could stand to save some cash -- and go a little easier on the environment - when simply driving around town.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
