Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Tesla Supercharger Reset Screen in Tesla Tesla Phone Tesla Roadster Tesla Model X vs Tesla Model Y Tesla Optimus Tesla Destination Chargers Home Cars Features What it means now that Kia and Hyundai have adopted Tesla’s charging standard By Christian de Looper Close It has finally happened. After the majority of other major automakers announced the transition from the combined charging system (CCS) to the North American Charging Standard (NACS) , Hyundai Motor Group (which consists of Hyundai, Kia, and Genesis) remained one of the major holdouts. But that has changed, and the company announced that it would make the shift starting with cars sold in late 2024. Presumably, that means that 2025 model year cars will get the new plugs.
How long will this transition take? What about my current EV? Will Tesla charging speeds be as fast? Is NACS really better? But what does this mean for you if you’re a current Kia, Hyundai, or Genesis driver ? And what does it mean for those planning on buying a Hyundai Motor Group EV in the near or more distant future? Here’s what you need to know.
How long will this transition take? The transition to NACS simply is not going to be as immediate as Apple’s transition from Lightning to USB-C ports.
 That’s to say, there’s going to be a multiyear transition period — and even in five years, some charging stations will likely still sport CCS connectors.
Tesla Model 3 vs. Hyundai Ioniq 6: Which electric sedan is best? Hyundai, Kia recall half a million U.S. cars over fire risk Watch Tesla’s Cybertruck cruise the streets of New York City Starting in late 2024, all Kia and Hyundai electric cars will feature the NACS port — so that change will happen overnight. So, the company will sell CCS-equipped electric cars one day, and the next, its new model year cars will be available with NACS ports.
Christian de Looper / Digital Trends But the cars simply offering the new port doesn’t mean that the whole industry will shift right away. After all, Electrify America and other charging networks have invested millions into CCS stations around the country, and while only the connectors on those stations will need to be replaced (not the whole stations), it will take some time for those stations to make the switch. That’s especially true considering the fact that charging networks will likely make the shift over multiple years, ensuring that customers with CCS cars can still use CCS charging stations.
Eventually, charging stations in North America will likely offer only NACS ports, but that doesn’t mean you won’t be able to charge your car there. There will be adapters to charge CCS EVs at stations with NACS connectors — and over time, you might find that you’ll simply keep one of those adapters in your car.
What about my current EV? Don’t rush out and get rid of your current Hyundai or Kia EV just yet — you’ll still be able to charge and use your current EV.
There are a few different situations to consider as an EV owner. The first is charging at home. If you have a CCS charger at home, nothing about charging your current car will change ther. You’ll be able to plug your charger into your car as if nothing in the industry has changed. Over time, of course, you may find that you want to switch to an NACS charger at home, especially if you have a second EV that has an NACS port. In that case, you’ll need to buy and use an adapter, which will become common and sold by most automakers by the time NACS cars start rolling out.
Joel Patel / Digital Trends The other main way to charge is by using public charging stations. It’s a good idea to buy an adapter to convert NACS to CCS relatively early on if you charge publicly a lot. You will still be able to find CCS charging stations from companies like Electric America — but having an adapter on hand will open up your charging options to include Tesla’s charging network , which is the largest in the country. And as non-Tesla charging stations slowly, but surely switch to NACS, having an adapter will become increasingly helpful.
Will Tesla charging speeds be as fast? One of the biggest advantages of buying a car from Kia or Hyundai in recent years is being able to take advantage of the incredibly fast 350-kilowatt charging speeds. Thankfully, the ability to charge at speeds that fast will not change.
It’s important to keep in mind that the change here isn’t as related to the underlying technology of charging, and more to do with the connector at the end of the cable. The pipe remains the same. That means that you should be able to get those superfast charging speeds at the same stations that you can right now, even if the connector switches over to NACS.
Christian de Looper / Digital Trends In early 2025, Tesla will allow non-Tesla cars like the Kia EV6 and Hyundai Ioniq 5 to charge at Tesla Superchargers. Currently these stations vary a little in charging speed. Currently, the top charging speed available at Superchargers is 250kW, which means that these stations won’t take full advantage of the 350kW speeds that some of Hyundai’s cars are capable of. Telsa’s next-generation chargers, Supercharger V4, however, will reach speeds of 350kW — and hopefully they’ll roll out relatively quickly.
Is NACS really better? In a word, yes. The NACS connector is smaller and less cumbersome than the CCS connector, making it a little easier to plug into cars.
But what’s really better isn’t necessarily the connector itself. It’s the fact that we’re finally moving toward one charging standard, which will theoretically allow EV drivers in the U.S. to pull up to any charging station and plug in. This is an advantage to both Tesla drivers, who will be able to charge at non-Tesla stations, and to non-Tesla drivers, who will be able to charge at the largest charging network in the U.S. It’s really a win-win — and whether it’s CCS or NACS, a single charging standard will be very helpful.
Tesla / Tesla Of course, there are still some questions about how it will all work. When Tesla drivers pull up to a Supercharger and plug in, the charger and car communicate and you’ll automatically pay for the charge with the card connected to your account — all without you having to do anything. In an ideal world that would happen with all cars and charging stations, though that’s unlikely. We’ll have to see exactly how that plays out.
Editors' Recommendations Lucid joins other automakers by adopting Tesla charging plug Move aside, Tesla. The Hyundai Ioniq 6 is the best electric sedan for the masses Watch Elon Musk’s high-speed start to Tesla’s Model S Plaid delivery event Tesla’s Autopilot can be easily tricked, engineers find Hyundai, Kia say they are not in talks with Apple about EV Features Hyundai Tesla Cars Apple's long-awaited car is finally coming into focus. Earlier in 2021, we reported that the tech giant had linked arms with Hyundai to enter the automotive industry, and a recent unverified report suggests Kia has been put in charge of the project. The South Korean firm issued a vague statement that neither confirms nor denies the rumors.
Sources allegedly familiar with the carmaker's plans told local news outlet Edaily that Hyundai assigned the Apple car project to sister company Kia. The report sent the company's shares on a 20% hike on the Seoul stock market.
Cars Tesla chief Elon Musk has tweeted a drone video showing the nearly finished Giga Berlin factory, the electric car company’s first such facility in Europe.
The video (below), shot recently in snowy conditions, reveals the huge scale of the plant on the 92-hectare site. In another tweet, Musk said that the factory's large footprint may give it a "flat" appearance in the aerial footage, but in reality, the building is up to five stories high in places.
Cars Hyundai and Kia have launched a handful of electric cars based on existing internal-combustion models, but now the two brands are taking things to the next level. The new Electric-Global Modular Platform (E-GMP) will be the basis for new vehicles that, unlike previous versions, will be designed from the ground up to be electric. Hyundai and Kia have hinted at E-GMP before, but have now provided concrete details ahead of the platform's launch in 2021.
Like all modern vehicle platforms, E-GMP will be much more versatile than a basic chassis. It can be used for everything from sedans to SUVs, and from ordinary commuter cars to a high-performance model that can accelerate from zero to 62 mph in 3.5 seconds and reach a top speed of 160 mph, according to Hyundai.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
