Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Cars Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Flash deal knocks $140 off this 48-amp home electric vehicle charger By Andrew Morrisey Close Juicebox Electric vehicles are becoming more and more commonplace, with the best electric cars making us rethink the way we get around. They won’t get far without some power though, and today electric vehicle owners can save on an EV charger. The Juicebox 48-amp electric vehicle charger is seeing a pretty hefty discount at Best Buy today. It’s going for $499, and would regularly cost $639. This makes for $140 in savings, and you can opt for free shipping or in-store pickup at your nearest Best Buy.
Why you should buy the Juicebox 48-amp electric vehicle charger Juicebox makes some of the most aesthetically pleasing electric vehicle chargers, as it puts a lot of emphasis on great design. The Juicebox 48-amp electric vehicle charger features a minimalist design that’s reminiscent of something you might find made by Apple. Like all of the best car chargers , it’s easy to install, and even easier to use. This is something you’ll want to pair with some of the best EV charging station apps once you’ve gotten it set up, and you can do so easily, as the Juicebox 48-amp electric vehicle charger connects straight to your home WiFi network.
This is one of Juicebox’s most powerful EV chargers. At 48-amps, it offers up to nine times faster charging than standard EV chargers. Like all of Juicebox’s chargers it’s universally compatible, ensuring it works with all EVs on the market today and in the future. With the JuiceNet app a lot of modern conveniences come into play. These include updates and notifications while your vehicle is charging. They also include voice controls that allow you to monitor, manage, and control the charger with Amazon Alexa and Google Home.
 The Juicebox 48-amp electric vehicle charger is rated for indoor and outdoor use, so you can set it up in your garage or alongside your driveway depending on which is best for your home’s layout.
While the Juicebox 48-amp electric vehicle charger would regularly set you back $639, today you can add it to your home for just $499. This deal makes for $140 in savings, and Best Buy will ship the charger to you for free or you can pick it up at your nearest Best Buy.
Editors' Recommendations The best October Prime Day electric scooter deals happening now You can lease an electric scooter for a month for only $19 Deal: Save $120 on this 25ft, 32-Amp home electric vehicle charger The best level 2 home EV chargers Save up to 26% on Pioneer vehicle stereo receivers at Best Buy Deals Cars Mobile tech and software have expanded to the car over the last few years, with many newer vehicles offering Apple CarPlay and Android Auto built right into the media display. But if you have an older vehicle and want the perks of modern technology right in your dashboard, it’s much cheaper to buy a new in-dash media receiver instead of a new car. This is especially true today, as we’ve tracked down some of the best deals on digital media receivers available for your vehicle.
JVC 6.8-inch digital media receiver — $280, was $300 This 6.8-inch digital media receiver is a good one if you’re looking to upgrade your vehicle’s media capabilities on a budget. You get quite a bit for the price point, as it’s capable of reaching 50 watts of peak power over four channels. The large touchscreen is easy to navigate and allows you to manage music, settings and functions. This digital media receiver also has a built-in equalizer, so you’ll be able to listen to whatever you want in any way you want. You can also tap into your mobile device’s music library with this digital media receiver, as it allows for Bluetooth connectivity and even has a USB port that allows you to connect to your device.
Cars If you're looking for one of the best ways to charge your electric vehicle, Best Buy has a great deal for you today. Right now, you can buy the Juicebox 25ft Electric Vehicle Charger for $549, saving you $120 off the regular price of $669. Convenient for anyone who wants to be able to charge from home more efficiently, this level 2 electric vehicle charger is sure to be a hit with you. You'll need to be fast though as, predictably, this deal of the day ends today. Let's take a quick look at why it's worth it.
Why you should buy the Juicebox 25ft Electric Vehicle Charger If you've been reading up on how to charge your electric car at home, you'll notice Juicebox gets a mention. Its Level 2 chargers are more powerful than Level 1 so you can refill your battery quicker. With the Juicebox 25ft Electric Vehicle Charger, you can expect up to six times faster charging than with the charger that came with your car. Universal compatibility means it works with all TVs on the market today and in the future, including Teslas thanks to a commonly used adapter.
Smart Home As we get closer to Prime Day, Amazon continues to discount smart home devices of all varieties. Amazon cut the prices on ChargePoint, JuiceBox, and Siemens Level 2 electric vehicle (EV) home chargers to help plug-in vehicle drivers recharge their car and SUV batteries much faster than plugging into a regular home electrical outlet.
We've found the best discounts on Level 2 home EV charger on Amazon and put them all in one place. The chargers vary in power, ranging from 30 to 40 amps, in the length of the charging cables, and connection method to your electrical service -- plug-in or hardwired. If you've been planning to invest in a Level 2 charger for your home or have gotten tired of the long recharge times when you plug into a regular 110- to 120-volt outlet, these five deals can help you save up to $150.
ChargePoint Level 2 Home EV Charger - hardwired, 18-foot cable--- $130 off Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
