Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Cars Guides Kia EV4: design, rumored pricing, release date, and more By Christian de Looper Close Kia Kia is once again expanding its electric car lineup. The EV6 has been out for a while, and the EV9 is currently going through its initial rollout. Next up is the Kia EV5. But what about after that? Kia has now announced a concept version of the Kia EV4.
Kia EV4 design Kia EV4 price and tax credit status Kia EV4 release date Kia EV4 models Kia EV4 charging speed and range Kia EV4 tech features The new car was announced at Kia’s EV Day — however, it will likely be some time before it’s released to the public. And, given that it’s really only a concept right now, there’s a lot we don’t know about the EV4.
Here is everything we do know.
Kia EV4 design The Kia EV4, or at least the concept version of it, is smaller than the EV6, and much smaller than the EV9. It’ll be the first actual sedan in the EV lineup — though it looks nothing like any sedan you’ve probably seen before.
Tesla Model 3 Highland: release date, range, design update, and more Volkswagen ID.4 vs Tesla Model Y Rivian R1S vs. Kia EV9: Is the more expensive electric SUV really better? It has angular lines throughout, including at the back of the car, culminating in what looks like a spoiler, but is really just the extended body of the car. Along those rear lines, you’ll get the also angular taillights. There’s a sloped roofline that almost verges into hatchback territory — and it does indeed have a closed trunk. The concept model comes in a matte gold — however, if the car makes it to the production stage, it’ll be available in a range of colors.
Kia The interior of the car is just as interesting. The concept model has an oval-shaped steering wheel, with a bright beige minimalistic interior sporting a large screen at the front for infotainment and instrument monitoring. Kia, however, has a history of completely changing the interior of its concept cars when they reach production — and if we had to bet, we’d wager that the interior of the EV4 will look a little more conventional if a production model is released.
Kia EV4 price and tax credit status When it comes to Kia, it seems as though the lower the model number, the lower the price, and if we had to estimate, we’d say that the EV4 will likely land somewhere between $30,000 and $40,000. Kia hasn’t made any announcements about the price yet, however.
Kia It also hasn’t announced whether or not the car will be built in the U.S.
, or if it’ll even be available in the U.S. Considering the fact that smaller cars aren’t as popular in the U.S., it’s possible that we’ll never see the EV4 there.
Kia EV4 release date Kia has yet to reveal any information about when the EV4 might be released to the public. If it follows the timeline it used for the EV9, then it will be two to three years before the EV4 gets released to the public.
Kia EV4 models Kia hasn’t revealed anything about the powertrain that it plans to use in the EV4. However, it will likely offer a few different models, and it’s possible there will be single- and dual motor-variants, and standard and long-range variants. It may also launch a GT-Line model, with unique styling, and a GT model with enhanced performance.
Kia EV4 charging speed and range Kia also hasn’t revealed much about the charging speed and range of the EV4. And details we’ve learned about the EV5 make it harder to speculate, too.
The EV6 and EV9 both offer an 800-volt architecture, allowing the car to reach superfast 350-kilowatt charging speeds. Butthe EV5 will be built on a 400-volt architecture, so it won’t reach the same speeds. If Kia is indeed reserving those fast charging speeds for its more expensive models, then the EV4 will likely only have a 400-volt architecture, which will limit the charging speed.
Kia It’s even harder to speculate on range. It’s likely the EV4 will have a smaller battery than some of Kia’s larger cars, and it will also be lighter. We’re hoping that the car reaches a range of 300 miles.
Kia EV4 tech features Here’s another area we can only speculate about, as Kia hasn’t announced any details about the tech features of the EV4. That said, we’re expecting the car to offer basic features like lane centering and adaptive cruise control, and more advanced features like Kia’s automatic parking tech. It’s likely the car will offer the same software as Kia’s other cars.
Editors' Recommendations Kia EV5: rumored pricing, design, range, features, and more Mercedes ‘Little G’ electric G-Wagon: Rumored design, release date Scout Motors Electric SUV: rumored price, release date, design, and more Rivian R2 compact SUV: Rumored price, release date, design, and more Charging your EV is about to get easier, as carmakers team up to build 30,000 chargers Cars Much of the focus in the EV world has been on striving for affordability, but there's one electric car that's going the opposite direction. The Cadillac Celestiq is built to be a head-turner, and it may serve as the EV to get for those who don't mind spending ... a lot.
The Celestiq will be unique for more reasons than just its price tag. Unlike other electric cars, the Celestiq will be built by hand to order -- and Cadillac says there's no limit to the kinds of customizations that customers will be able to make. In other words, we may soon see some very expensive, very flashy Celestiqs at some point in the future.
Cars The Electra is making a comeback. Buick has announced that it's bringing back the classic Electra -- but unlike the gas-powered Electra last seen in 1990, the new car is set to be Buick's first electric offering. The first of the new Electra models is set to be the 2025 Electra E5 SUV, a car that's powered by General Motors' Ultium platform, and should be another long-range electric car that doesn't break the bank -- at least compared to the competition.
The car has been announced, but there's still a lot we don't know about the Buick Electra. Here's everything we do know about it so far.
Buick Electra price Unfortunately, one of the things we don't yet know about the Buick Electra is its price. While Buick has released some details about the car in general, it hasn't disclosed anything about what the car will ultimately cost.
Cars The budget EV market is seriously heating up. While it turns out that the Chevrolet Bolt EV isn't long for this world, there's a new low-cost electric car in town, and it's set to make more affordable electric cars a whole lot more stylish. The Volvo EX30 "small SUV" has yet to be released to the public, but already many EV shoppers are considering it for their next car, considering its low price, solid range, and stylish design.
Curious about the Volvo EX30? We've been keeping an eye on the EX30's announcements and release, and can't wait for it either. Here's everything we know about the Volvo EX30 so far.
Volvo EX30 price Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
