Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Cars News Kia EV5: rumored pricing, design, range, features, and more By Christian de Looper Close Kia Kia is firing on all cylinders. After the success of the Kia EV6 , the company is about to follow things up with the much larger Kia EV9.
 But it isn’t stopping there. Kia recently announced a few other new electric cars that are set to join its lineup in the near future — including the EV5.
Design Price and tax credit status Models Charging speed and range Tech features If the EV5 is anything like the EV6 or EV9, of course, it’ll be an instant success. But it may still be some time before we see the car in the real world. Curious to learn more about the Kia EV5? Here’s what you need to know.
Design Despite the lower number, the Kia EV5 will actually be larger than the EV6 crossover — but not quite as large as the EV9 SUV.
 It’ll be more of a “compact SUV,” offering a boxy design that’s similar to the EV9, but with only two rows of seats instead of three.
The Hyundai Ioniq 5 N makes one of the coolest EVs ready for the track Kia EV4: design, rumored pricing, release date, and more Tesla Model 3 Highland: release date, range, design update, and more Renders of the car from Kia indicate that it will follow the same overall design language as the EV9. That means it’ll have a blocky design, with unique LED light signatures at both the front and the back. It’ll have a length of 181.7 inches, which makes it a little shorter than even the EV6, but it’ll be much taller than the EV6 , and thus have more interior space.
Kia The interior design will largely follow that of other Kia cars too. There are two 12.3 inch displays at the front of the car, for infotainment and instrument monitoring. Unique to the EV5, however, is a kind of weird bench front seat that looks like it should offer a middle seat — but with no seatbelts and a slightly raised middle. It’s unclear if this will be sold in all regions, however, it does seem as though the Chinese production model will get the strange front seat.
Price and tax credit status It seems as though Kia’s naming scheme has less to do with size, and more to do with price. We’re expecting the EV5 to be a little cheaper than the EV6, meaning that it’ll hopefully start at around $40,000 — though that remains to be seen.
There are conflicting reports as to whether or not the EV5 will be sold in the U.S. It doesn’t seem as though the company plans to build the car at its U.S. plant — which means that it won’t qualify for the federal EV tax credit. Some reports suggest that the car won’t come to the U.S., while others note that it will be sold in North American. Both could be true, if it’s sold in Mexico and/or Canada. Hopefully, it will make its way stateside, but if it does, it likely won’t be for a few more years.
Kia Models We don’t yet have information about the individual models of the EV5 — however you can expect that at least a few models will be sold. The car will be available in both single- and dual-motor configurations — with the single-motor model reaching 214 horsepower and the dual-motor configurations hitting 308hp. In other words, the EV5 won’t be the fastest car around, but it should still get some of that electric car zip.
There will be standard range and long-range models — though it’s unclear if both single- and dual-motor configurations will get both battery options. Hopefully, we’ll hear more about the models in the near future.
Charging speed and range Kia EVs have long been hailed for their excellent fast charging speed — thanks in large part to the fact that they offer an 800-volt architecture. Unfortunately, Kia has confirmed that the EV5 will not get that 800-volt architecture — meaning that it won’t reach the same 350-kilowatt, blazing-fast charging speeds that you’ll get from the EV6 and EV9.
Kia In China, Kia will offer models with a 64kWh battery in the standard range models, and 88kWh batteries in the long range models. Battery sizes will likely differ a little depending on the market that the car is sold in, so we’ll have to wait and see what the battery sizes will be on models outside of China. Kia says that the single-motor EV5 will get a huge 447 miles, with the dual-motor model getting 329 miles. We’re a little skeptical of these numbers, though. It’s unlikely those will be the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)-estimated numbers that the company will advertise if it sells the EV5 in the U.S. In fact, Kia’s numbers come from the Combined Charging and Load Cycle standard — and estimates suggest EPA numbers are around 35% lower than those. That would put the standard-range model at around 290 miles and the long-range model at around 214 miles.
Tech features The EV5 will come with a range of tech features to make the experience of using the car even better. As you would expect, you’ll get basics like backup cameras, as well as adaptive cruise control and lane-centering tech that will combine to make for a somewhat autonomous experience on the highway. Also like other Kia cars, the car should offer CarPlay and Android Auto, hopefully through a wireless connection. Kia has said that it will even fit the car with its Remote Smart Parking Assist tech that allows for automated parking. Again, like other features, it’s hard to know which of these features will make their way to a U.S. model, if one ever launches.
Editors' Recommendations Volvo EM90 electric minivan: price, release date, range, and more Kia EV3: Release date, performance, range, and more The Kia EV9 is coming, but you should wait to buy one. Here’s why Scout Motors Electric SUV: rumored price, release date, design, and more Rivian R1S vs. Kia EV9: Is the more expensive electric SUV really better? Tech News Cars The biggest drawback to owning an electric car is having to get used to and constantly dealing with a more limited range. Unless you're driving a Lucid Air, your electric car likely drives a shorter distance on a full charge than the average gas-powered car on a full tank. And considering how slowly some EVs charge, that means that you're likely thinking about range, often.
There are a few things that can lower the range even further, too. Very cold temperatures are one of those things -- but it turns out, very hot temperatures can do the same. And, with the heat waves that have swept the world in 2023, that's an issue that's affecting more and more EV drivers out there.
Cars The Rivian R1T electric pickup truck has been a hugely popular first release from the new automaker. Both it and its SUV brother, the R1S, are considered among the best in their class. But they're also both relatively expensive -- the entry-level R1 starts at $73,000, putting it out of reach for many would-be buyers. Rivian, however, wants to serve the masses, and to that end has been developing its next-gen, cheaper platform, called the Rivian R2.
If Rivian ends up following its current naming scheme, the company will launch multiple R2 models. For example, it could release an R2S SUV and R2T truck, both at lower price points than Rivian's current vehicles. For now, however, the only rumored model is an R2 compact SUV -- which is the vehicle we'll be discussing here.
Cars EVs certainly have all of the hype in the car industry right now, but their adoption has been hampered by one major issue: public charging. Where do I charge? How fast can I charge? And how much will it cost? Going through those mental hurdles will keep folks away from making the switch to an EV -- even if the reality is that it's not as complicated as it seems.
To help accelerate the EV transition, and more importantly provide the necessary infrastructure for anyone who already has an EV, a consortium of automakers has announced a massive investment in EV chargers in North America. The group of seven major companies -- BMW, General Motors, Honda, Hyundai, Kia, Mercedes-Benz, and Stellantis -- is investing collectively in installing a whopping 30,000 EV chargers along major highways and in urban areas.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
