Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Cars Features ‘Unlimited range?’ Misleading marketing aside, the Ramcharger looks like a great truck By Christian de Looper Close Ram The Ram brand is finally taking an electrified approach, and by resurrecting the Ramcharger name, no less. Alongside the new 2025 Ram 1500, the company has unveiled the new 2025 Ram 1500 Ramcharger, a new plug-in hybrid that Ram touts as offering “unlimited battery electric range.” The plug-in approach Everything else The new truck is one of a number of electrified trucks, the most well-known of which include the fully-electric Ford F-150 Lightning and the new Chevrolet Silverado EV.
 But instead of being fully electric, the 1500 Ramcharger is a plug-in hybrid, meaning that it has an electric motor and battery, and a gas tank and engine.
The plug-in approach It’s perhaps a smart move. Electric trucks show a lot of promise — but they start to falter a little when it comes to things like towing and hauling heavy loads. Keeping the 1500 Ramcharger a hybrid means that with no load or light ones, the truck can zip around town on electric power — and when necessary, it can switch the engine on to tow or haul. It could well be the perfect combo for many truck owners who at least occasionally need that extra oomph, but who still could stand to save some cash — and go a little easier on the environment – when simply driving around town.
Ram EV concept previews truck brand’s electric future How tech is making trucks comfier, smoother, and better for everyday drivers 2020 Ram 1500 EcoDiesel proves big trucks don’t have to be gas guzzlers The approach to building the truck is pretty innovative. Instead of switching directly between the electric motor and gas-powered engine, the truck instead uses the generator to charge the battery or to supply power to the electric motors directly — which means that the truck can always deliver that immediate electric zip. Of course, that doesn’t necessarily have much of an impact on fuel consumption — or at least, no more than any other hybrid. But it does impact overall performance.
2025 Ram 1500 Ram According to Ram , the new truck offers a 92-kilowatt-hour battery pack with an onboard 130kW generator, which powers the 250kW front motor and 238kW rear motor. All this combines into a truck that can reach 60 miles per hour in 4.4 seconds, thanks to its 663-horsepower performance and 615 lb-ft of torque.
But while the truck itself is innovative, the marketing around it is … misleading. In an era where customers are trying to find ways to beat range anxiety and comparing vehicles based on their range and charging speed, instead of their horsepower and fuel efficiency, marketing a vehicle as offering “unlimited electric range” isn’t really fair, or accurate. After all, the vehicle still has to be charged or filled regardless — and you certainly can’t drive it forever without filling the tank or charging the battery. Ram notes the truck as offering a range of up to 690 miles, which obviously include making use of the generator.
So what about the actual range? Well, unfortunately Ram doesn’t mention what the battery can deliver on a single charge. It does note that customers will be able to add 50 miles of all-electric range in around 10 minutes at the maximum charging speed of 145kW. We also don’t know if it’s even possible to use the truck in an electric-only mode (though we assume you can).
2025 Ram 1500 Ram Unfortunately, that’s not the only thing we don’t yet know about the truck. We also don’t know how much it’ll cost, and when it’ll be available for purchase. Interested customers can reserve a place in line to preorder the truck.
Everything else Apart from the powertrain, there are some additional details we do know about the truck. Based on the images from Ram, it seems to offer a relatively modern interior, with a 14.5-inch infotainment display and a 12.3-inch digital instrument cluster. It even has a 10.25-inch passenger screen, which will make riding in the passenger seat a little more comfortable.
The truck offers a Klipsch audio system , which is made up of an impressive 23 tuned speakers dotted around the interior. That includes a 12-inch subwoofer and two one-inch titanium dome tweeters.
Editors' Recommendations This cool-looking driverless truck is transporting goods for GE Appliances Elon Musk unveils Tesla’s Cybertruck with strange looks and great performance Chevrolet uses the Bolt’s electric guts to build a Hot Wheels-like classic truck Volvo has created an autonomous truck that looks like a sports car Fiat Chrysler recalls nearly 300,000 Ram 1500 pickup trucks in the U.S.
Features Cars Previous Next Cars Automakers are quick to say that electric cars are the future, but most aren’t acting that way. In an effort to convince customers to overlook teething problems with charging infrastructure, amortize major investments in battery manufacturing as quickly as possible, and maybe replicate a bit of that Tesla magic, automakers have been emphasizing performance and tech gimmicks instead of what really matters: building cars people can afford. Change is coming, though, and from an unexpected source.
Volvo is known for safety and sensible Swedish design, not value. But the 2025 Volvo EX30 undercuts EVs from mainstream brands like Hyundai, Kia, and Volkswagen in price without compromising range, features, or style. Pricing starts at just $36,245 for the base Single Motor Extended Range Core model, and even the maxed-out price of $47,895 for a Twin Motor Performance Ultra looks inexpensive compared to the stratospheric heights some EV prices can reach when all option boxes are checked.
Cars Lucid Motors has become the latest automaker to announce that it will adopt the North American Charging Standard (NACS) – also known as "the Tesla plug" – for its electric vehicles.
The move follows in the footsteps of more than a dozen other automakers that have also adopted Tesla’s charging connector, among them General Motors, Ford, Toyota, BMW, Jaguar Land Rover, Volvo, and Honda.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
