Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Tesla Supercharger Reset Screen in Tesla Tesla Phone Tesla Roadster Tesla Model X vs Tesla Model Y Tesla Optimus Tesla Destination Chargers Home Cars Guides Tesla Model 3 Highland: release date, range, design update, and more By Christian de Looper Close Tesla The Tesla Model 3 has long been one of the best electric cars out there, especially for drivers who want a high-quality car without paying a ton of cash.
The Model 3 boasts a great range, along with awesome tech features and minimalistic design, all of which have helped make it a top-selling electric car.
Tesla Model 3 Highland design Tesla Model 3 Highland price Tesla Model 3 Highland release date Tesla Model 3 Highland colors and models Tesla Model 3 Highland charging speed and range Tesla Model 3 Highland tech features Better in almost every way But to date, it hasn’t evolved much. The car has been around for six years now, with thefirst deliveries of the original Model 3 coming in late 2017. But now it’s getting a face-lift. The updated car, code-named Highland, has been announced, and it offers a range of upgrades over the current-generation Tesla Model 3.
Here’s everything you need to know about Tesla’s big Model 3 refresh.
Tesla Model 3 vs. Tesla Model Y: Bigger or cheaper? Scout Motors Electric SUV: rumored price, release date, design, and more Rivian R2 compact SUV: Rumored price, release date, design, and more Tesla Model 3 Highland design The changes to the Tesla Model 3 start with the exterior design. Tesla isn’t completely reinventing the car, but it has made some changes to the outside that make it sleeker and more stylish.
Tesla At the front of the car, Tesla has removed the bulbous lumps where the headlights previously lived. Not only does this help make the car look sleeker, but it also happens to help improve aerodynamics. The new headlights are also narrower and slimmer, and they look a little more aggressive, which is nice.
On the back of the car, the design changes are a little less impactful. The only real change is the swap from the old Tesla “T” logo to the full “TESLA” logo, which spans the width of of the back of the car. It’s a better look.
Tesla Model 3 Highland price Tesla hasn’t yet announced pricing for the North American model of the Model 3, however, it’s expected that the price of the Model 3 will remain more or less the same, at least for the base model. That’s because Tesla has already put the refreshed Model 3 up for preorder in parts of Europe, where the Standard Range model is the same price, while the Long Range model is a little more expensive. We’ll have to wait and see if Tesla does something similar for North American sales.
Tesla Model 3 Highland release date The Model 3 Highland is already available for preorder in some parts of Europe, and deliveries are set to begin in October 2023. Tesla has not yet announced when the updated car will be available in North America — however it’s largely expected that it’ll be some time in early 2024. We’ll have to wait and see, though.
Tesla Model 3 Highland colors and models The Tesla Model 3 Highland will come in a few different models, just like previous iterations of the Model 3. The car will be available in a Standard Range and a Long Range model. The Standard Range model will likely only be available in a rear-wheel drive configuration, with the Long Range model upgrading the car to all-wheel drive.
Tesla When it comes to colors, they will likely be similar too. Tesla has been showing off a new red color, however, called Ultra Red. It will replace the current red option.
Tesla Model 3 Highland charging speed and range One of the best things about the design changes to the Model 3 is the fact that it’s more aerodynamic, and that means longer range. Using Europe’s Worldwide Harmonized Light Vehicles Test Procedure, the Standard Range model is rated to offer 344 miles, with the Long Range model getting an impressive 421 miles. These ratings were about 12% higher than Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) ratings in the previous model, so if they vary by the same amount this time around, the Standard Range will still hit EPA numbers around 300 miles, and the Long Range will come in around 370 miles or so. The last-gen Model 3 hit 272 miles and 333 miles, respectively. That’s a pretty impressive upgrade.
The Model 3’s charging speed will remain the same as the previous-generation, at 250 kilowatts. The lack of an upgrade here isn’t a huge deal — 250kW is already pretty quick.
Tesla Model 3 Highland tech features There are even some extra tech features on offer from the Tesla Model 3 Highland. Perhaps most notable is the fact that the Tesla Model 3 Highland offers a new screen in the back for passengers. This allows passengers to access their own controls and infotainment, without the need for aftermarket accessories.
Tesla There’s also new accent lighting throughout the interior. And Tesla has converted the turn signal stalk to buttons on the steering wheel. This is a change that’s sure to be controversial, but that’s Tesla for you.
Better in almost every way Unconventional turn-signal placement aside, all the changes to the Tesla Model 3 will be helpful. The Model 3 was already a relatively long-range car, so improvements there truly cement its place as the go-to option for buyers who prioritize the highest mileage at the lowest price. While we don’t yet know exactly when the car will be available in North America, hopefully it’ll be relatively soon.
Editors' Recommendations Kia EV4: design, rumored pricing, release date, and more Volkswagen ID.4 vs Tesla Model Y Tesla launches more affordable Model S and Model X, but there’s a catch 2025 Buick Electra: rumored price, release date, range, and more Volvo EX30 price, range, release date, specs, and more Tesla Cars First introduced in 2019, the Tesla Cybertruck is unlike any pickup we've ever seen. It's electric, which isn't entirely unusual, and frankly expected from Tesla, but its futuristic design makes it stand out from everything else on the road. Whether that's a good or a bad thing is a matter of personal preference, and keep in mind we haven't seen the final, production-bound version yet. Tesla often makes tweaks to its cars before production, however, we may not have to wait long -- as Tesla says the truck will finally start shipping later this year.
In the meantime, we're taking a look at what it is, what it does, how much it will cost, and when cyber motorists will have the opportunity to get behind the wheel. We're looking at its rivals, too, and the list grows on a regular basis.
Design Cars One of the big promises of electric vehicles is that they require less maintenance than a gasoline-powered car, and thus cost less over time. That’s largely because EVs have a whole lot fewer moving parts. When you don't have an engine, you don't have to worry about oil changes, spark plugs, or exhaust systems, to name just a few examples.
The Tesla Model 3 is no different in that regard. While Tesla cars notoriously suffer from issues like panel gaps and other factory defects, Tesla covers these repairs under warranty, as long as you buy the car from Tesla itself. After that, there are few costs associated with maintenance at all. Here’s a rundown of the maintenance costs you can expect as a Tesla Model 3 owner.
Tesla Model 3 maintenance Cars The BMW i4 and Tesla Model 3 are two of the hottest electric cars on the market today. Both vehicles offer a range of features designed to make driving easy and efficient, as well as attractive styling. But each has its advantages and disadvantages, and there is much that sets them apart in terms of performance, technology, convenience, and cost.
Deciding between the two? That's why we've put together this guide. Here are the differences and similarities between the Tesla Model 3 and BMW i4, and why you might want one over the other.
Design Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
