Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Tesla Supercharger Reset Screen in Tesla Tesla Phone Tesla Roadster Tesla Model X vs Tesla Model Y Tesla Optimus Tesla Destination Chargers Home Cars Products Tesla Model 3 vs. Polestar 2: Which electric sedan reigns supreme? By Christian de Looper Close The Tesla Model 3 has long been a go-to for those who want a reasonably priced EV that’s still able to offer important perks like long range. But that doesn’t mean there isn’t competition. In fact, over the years a number of great electric sedans have popped up, like the Polestar 2.
Design Interior and tech Performance Range and charging Pricing and availability Overall winner: Tesla Model 3 Polestar itself has developed quite a reputation for building high-quality cars. It makes sense. While Polestar itself is a relatively new company, it’s owned by Volvo and at this point, shares many design elements with Volvo cars.
But how does the all-electric Polestar 2 compare with the Tesla Model 3 ? And which one should you buy? Here’s a look.
Tesla Model Y vs. Nissan Ariya: Can Tesla take out Nissan’s electric crossover? BMW iX vs Tesla Model Y: miles apart on price, but closer than you think Tesla Model 3 Highland: release date, range, design update, and more Design The first thing to notice about these two cars is their design — namely because of the fact that they offer pretty different looks. The Tesla Model 3 looks similar to other Tesla cars — it has flush door handles, comes in the same colors, and has a curved roofline. It’s still a sleek and modern-looking car, despite the fact that the overall design is aging a little.
Tesla The Polestar 2 is a pretty sweet-looking car too, though. It’s much blockier than the Model 3, offering more angles and straight lines than the Model 3. It also has many design elements from other modern Volvo cars, like the squared-off light bar along the back and the slim front headlights. It’s available in six colors, and they’re a little more muted than the Model 3’s palette.
Generally speaking, both cars look sleek and modern. Ultimately, design preferences are personal — there’s no objective winner.
Winner: Tie Interior and tech The interior design of the cars is pretty different too. As on the outside, the Model 3 continues to prioritize minimalism on the inside, with few controls that haven’t been moved to the display. The display itself is a big 15.4 inches, and it’s where you’ll control most aspects of the car, from the climate to the maps to the audio playback. The car features faux leather upholstery, which comes in all black or black and white.
The interior of the Polestar 2 is a little busier, with more physical controls that prevent the need to have to dig through settings. There’s still a big screen at the front though — this one vertically aligned and loaded with Google’s Android Automotive infotainment system. That’s coupled with a digital instrument cluster, unlike the Model 3.
2024 Polestar 2 Polestar The Polestar 2 also has CarPlay and Android Auto , meaning that you won’t have to stick with the Android Automotive infotainment built into the car if you don’t want to. The Model 3 does not support CarPlay or Android Auto — but it does have among the best software experiences in a car out there right now.
Again, this is a little subjective. Some prefer the minimalistic approach, while others want quick access to physical controls.
Winner: Tie Performance Both the Model 3 and the Polestar 2 benefit from that zippy electric car pep, but they don’t quite perform the same.
The Tesla Model 3 comes in three variants — a standard model, which is a rear-wheel drive model, a Long Range model, which is all-wheel drive, and a Performance model, which is also all-wheel drive. On the low end, the standard model has a top speed of 140 miles per hour and can reach 60mph in 5.8 seconds. That’s not slow — but upgrade to the Performance model and you’ll get to speed in only 3.1 seconds. That makes the Model 3 one of the fastest cars on the road, in terms of acceleration.
Tesla The Polestar 3 isn’t slow either, but it doesn’t reach the heights of the Model 3. The Polestar 2 is available in two variants — a long-range single-motor model in rear-wheel-drive, and a long-range dual-motor variant with all-wheel-drive. The slower model, which is the single-motor model, reaches 60 mph in 5.9 seconds, while the dual-motor model gets to speed in 4.3 seconds. Again, quite fast — but nowhere near as fast as the Model 3 Performance.
Both cars are quick, but the Model 3 is a clear winner here.
Winner: Tesla Model 3 Range and charging Range is one of the most important factors of an electric car, and it’s an area where the cars are pretty closely matched.
The standard Model 3 gets 272 miles of range, while the Long Range model steps that up to an impressive 333 miles. The Performance model sits at 315 miles. All of them can charge at 250kW, which allows them to gain 200 miles in around 15 minutes.
2024 Polestar 2 Polestar The Polestar 2 is a pretty solid performer in the range department too. Interestingly, the cheaper model gets better range. That’s the single-motor variant, which gets 320 miles of range. The dual-motor model sits at 276 miles. Unfortunately, the Polestar 2 only charges at a speed of 150kW, which will get it from 10% to 80% charge in 35 minutes.
The Model 3’s range is only slightly higher than the Polestar 2, but its faster charging speed gives it the win here.
Winner: Tesla Model 3 Pricing and availability Both the Tesla Model 3 and the Polestar 2 are available now, and you can get them both readily.
But depending on the model you go for, the amount you pay will be a little different. The Tesla Model 3 starts at $41,240 for the standard model and ranges up to $54.240 for the Performance model. The Polestar 2, on the other hand, starts at a much higher $48,900 for the single-motor variant, ranging up to $54,300 for the dual-motor model.
The Model 3 is the clear winner.
Winner: Tesla Model 3 Overall winner: Tesla Model 3 The Polestar 2 is a great car, but ultimately it just can’t compete with the Model 3, in most situations. The Tesla Model 3 has faster acceleration, a slightly longer range, and a faster charging speed — all for a cheaper price. If you’re looking for a great electric sedan, the Model 3 is still probably the better option for most buyers.
Editors' Recommendations Tesla Model S vs. Porsche Taycan: turning heads and snapping necks Tesla Model S vs. Model X: Which is right for you? Tesla Model Y vs. Hyundai Ioniq 5: Which crossover reigns supreme? Tesla Model 3 vs. Tesla Model Y: Bigger or cheaper? Volkswagen ID.4 vs Tesla Model Y Tesla Versus Volvo Cars I may finally be on my way toward buying my first EV. Sure, I've tested dozens of electric car models over the years, but despite that (or perhaps because of it), I have yet to buy one. But my family is growing, and my wife and I aren't so sure about carting our future kids around in an aging car that lacks the safety features of modern vehicles.
Because of the fact that we're expecting our kid in January, we have a bit of a deadline. So what are we leaning toward? Well, despite the fact that it's far from my favorite EV, we may actually end up just getting a Model Y.
Timing makes a difference If the baby was coming along in a year's time, things might be completely different. There are a few reasons for that.
Cars There are finally some more electric sedan options. For years, the Tesla Model 3 was really the only good electric sedan that comes at a reasonable price -- until, Hyundai recently launched the Ioniq 6. The Ioniq 6 certainly takes some cues from the larger Ioniq 5, but is smaller and sleeker, with a design seemingly inspired by the Porsche 911.
But the Tesla Model 3 is still clearly an excellent option for those looking for an electric car, and who don't want a larger crossover. Which is better? Here's a look.
Design The exterior design of the Tesla Model 3 and Hyundai Ioniq 6 is quite different. If you've seen a Tesla car before, then you'll immediately recognize the Model 3 -- it looks largely like a slightly different version of every other Tesla (except the Cybertruck).
Cars Tesla has launched more affordable versions of its Model S sedan and Model X SUV in the U.S. and Canada, though they come with shorter driving ranges. Deliveries of the new vehicles will begin next month.
The new Model S "standard range" vehicles cost $78,490 and offer a range of up to 320 miles (515 kilometers), which is considerably shorter than the pricier regular dual-motor and tri-motor Plaid versions that feature a range of 405 miles and 396 miles, respectively, Reuters reported.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
