Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Tesla Supercharger Reset Screen in Tesla Tesla Phone Tesla Roadster Tesla Model X vs Tesla Model Y Tesla Optimus Tesla Destination Chargers Home Cars Guides Products Tesla Model 3 vs. Tesla Model Y: Bigger or cheaper? By Christian de Looper Close Tesla Tesla has a bit of a head start on the competition. Say what you will about panel gaps and its CEO, there’s no denying that Tesla made the electric car cool — and all in the pursuit of making them affordable enough to mass produce. And, while its lowest-priced cars aren’t cheap , Tesla largely achieved that goal.
The Tesla Model 3 and Model Y are its most affordable cars right now, and they offer that unmistakable Tesla design, with good battery and charging tech, plus a focus on a high-tech infotainment system.
Design Interior and tech Performance Range and charging Pricing and availability Overall winner: Tesla Model 3 But which of the two cars is actually better? Or, if neither is better, which is right for your needs? We put the two head-to-head.
Design Tesla uses a relatively uniform design language across its lineup, and the result is that the Tesla Model 3 and Model Y look very similar. In fact, the Model Y looks exactly like what it is: a larger version of the Model 3.
Volkswagen ID.4 vs Tesla Model Y Tesla Model 3 maintenance costs: What can you expect? Tesla Model X vs. Tesla Model Y: Range, speed, price, and other specs compared The Model 3 is a sedan, with a closed trunk at the back and a relatively low ride compared to some other EVs — especially the larger crossovers. The exterior design in general is relatively minimalistic, with slanted headlights at the front and a curved roofline.
Tesla The Model Y stretches those proportions and does away with the closed trunk. It has a much larger, open trunk that those looking for more storage space will appreciate.
Things are changing a little with the design between the cars. Tesla has announced a redesign of the Model 3 that gives it a more aerodynamic front, and less bulbous headlights on the front. It’s expected that a similar refresh will eventually come to the Model Y, however, that refresh has yet to be announced, and is likely at least a year away.
Ultimately, it’s hard to award one of these a “win” in the design category; it’s strictly a matter of preference.
Winner: Tie Interior and tech The interiors of the cars are also very similar. As mentioned, the Model Y has more storage than the Model 3 — 34.3 cubic-feet versus 22.9. The storage space does shrink considerably if you buy a seven-seat Model Y, down to 17 cubic feet.
Therein lies another difference.
The Model Y , by default, has five seats like the Model 3. However, you can purchase an optional third row of seats, bringing the total number of seats to seven. The third row is pretty cramped, and probably only suitable for children, especially for longer road trips, but extra seats could come in handy if you have a larger family.
Tesla At the front of both cars, you’ll find a large tablet-style infotainment display, and the experience is the same regardless of the car you get. You’ll get Tesla’s reasonably well-designed infotainment system, which can show feeds from the numerous cameras around the car, mapping information, and more. Neither of the cars support Android Auto or CarPlay , unfortunately.
The cars have the same overall interior experience, but the Model Y scores a win here by offering more space on the inside, along with an option for a third row of seats.
Winner: Tesla Model Y Performance The level of performance on offer from these two cars is pretty similar, too. The base Model 3 is a rear-wheel drive car, though there are two all-wheel drive variants: The Model 3 Long range and Model 3 Performance. The base Model 3 can accelerate from 0 to 60 miles per hour in 5.8 seconds, while the Model 3 Performance can hit that mark an impressive 3.1 seconds.
Tesla / Tesla The Model Y, on the other hand, is only available with all-wheel drive. There are three drivetrain options: standard Model Y, Model Y Long Range, and Model Y Performance. The acceleration ranges from 0 to 60 mph in 3.5 to 5 seconds.
While the Model Y comes with all-wheel drive by default, the Model 3 is faster, so it’s getting the win here.
Winner: Tesla Model 3 Range and charging The range and charging on offer by these cars is near identical. The standard Model 3 has a range of 272, while the Model 3 Long Range steps that up to 333 miles. On the other hand, the standard Model Y has a range of 279 miles, while the Model Y Long Range caps out at 330 miles.
Tesla Both cars charge at 250 kilowatts, which should allow them to get 200 miles of charge in around 15 minutes. That’s pretty fast.
The ranges are close enough to make this category too close to call.
Winner: Tie Pricing and availability Electric cars are still relatively expensive, but the Model 3 and Model Y are on the lower end of electric cars that are actually high quality. The Model 3 starts at $40,240 for the base model, ranging up to $53,240 as a base price for the Model 3 Performance. The Model Y is a little more expensive, coming in at $47,740 for the standard Model Y, or up to $54,490 for the Model Y Performance.
Plain and simple: The Model 3 is the cheaper car.
Winner: Tesla Model 3 Overall winner: Tesla Model 3 It feels almost like the Model 3 won on a technicality, but the fact that it’s cheaper does matter for many buyers. But when you remove price, these cars tie, and that makes sense. They’re extremely similar, and while the Model 3 can technically perform a little better, most will be deciding between the “bigger, more expensive one,” and the “smaller, cheaper one.” If you have a family and need a larger car, the Model Y is probably the way to go — and if you could stand to save some cash and don’t quite need a crossover-size vehicle, the Model 3 will do perfectly fine.
Editors' Recommendations Tesla Model 3 Highland: release date, range, design update, and more Tesla launches more affordable Model S and Model X, but there’s a catch BMW i4 vs. Tesla Model 3: Which EV sedan is better? Tesla’s Model 3 is reportedly heading for a redesign Elon Musk busts some moves at new Giga Berlin Tesla factory Tesla Cars Tesla is recalling nearly half a million Model 3 and Model S vehicles in the U.S. over safety issues related to the rearview camera and the trunk.
Specifically, 356,309 Tesla Model 3 electric cars (model years 2017 through 2020/production dates July 15, 2017 through September 30, 2020) have been recalled over a problem with the trunk harness coaxial cable that could wear away and cut the feed from the rearview camera to the center display.
Cars Tesla’s market value increased beyond $1 trillion on Monday after Hertz announced "an initial order" of 100,000 vehicles from the automaker.
Hertz has ordered the Tesla Model 3, which starts at around $40,000 and is the automaker’s best-priced vehicle among its current range of electric vehicles (EVs).
News Tesla held its Model S Plaid delivery event on Thursday, June 10.
Model S Plaid Delivery Event Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
