Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Tesla Supercharger Reset Screen in Tesla Tesla Phone Tesla Roadster Tesla Model X vs Tesla Model Y Tesla Optimus Tesla Destination Chargers Home Cars Products Tesla Model S vs. Porsche Taycan: turning heads and snapping necks By Christian de Looper Close Ronan Glon / Digital Trends The Tesla Model S kind of pioneered the concept that electric cars could be cool. When the Model S first launched in 2012, electric cars in general were considered to be slow and a little nerdy. But since then, a range of other attractive EVs have popped up — including the ultra-cool Porsche Taycan.
Design Interior and tech Performance Range and charging Pricing and availability Overall winner: Tesla Model S If you’re looking to fulfill a need for electric speed, you may be deciding between the Model S and the Porsche Taycan — and it makes sense. They both have a lot to offer. But is one of them truly better? Here’s what you need to know.
Design The first thing to notice about these two cars is their design, as they take a slightly different approach to it. The Tesla Model S has certainly evolved a little over the years, now offering a much sleeker and more modern design than the initial bulb-nosed Model S that was released in 2012. But it also doesn’t do that much to stand out, especially in a world where it has become not uncommon to see Teslas on the streets.
Tesla If you do want a car that does more to stand out, then the Porsche Taycan may be worth considering. The Taycan looks like a futuristic Porsche, with its sloped roofline and slanted headlights. On the back of the car, you’ll get a light bar that extends from side to side. It’s a great look.
Tesla Model S vs. Model X: Which is right for you? BMW iX vs Tesla Model Y: miles apart on price, but closer than you think Tesla Model 3 Highland: release date, range, design update, and more But it may not be for everyone. The Tesla Model S certainly takes a more subtle approach to design, while the Taycan is more unique. We’ll leave it up to you to decide which design you like better.
Winner: Tie Interior and tech Tesla’s minimalistic approach is showcased when you step inside the Model S. The Model S comes in all black, black and white, or cream — and no matter which you choose, you’ll get a clean, modern look. At the front of the car, you’ll find a 17-inch touc screen, with another display that acts as a digital instrument cluster. The main 17-inch display is where you’ll control all different aspects of the experience of driving the car, including the climate controls. You’ll also be able to access services like Netflix, as well as use Tesla’s mapping on this display.
Ronan Glon / Digital Trends The interior of the Porsche Taycan is a little more traditional inside. There are more physical controls, though still not a ton of them. The car features a number of different displays at the front, including a digital instrument cluster, a 10.9-inch infotainment display, and an 8.4-inch display below it that is specifically for functions like climate controls, battery status, and more. If a car is going to have digital climate controls, it’s nice that it has a dedicated display for these kinds of functions.
The interior design overall is also down to personal preference. If you want a more minimalistic and clean approach, the Tesla Model S may be better for you. But if you’re looking for something a little more traditional, the Taycan is the better option.
Winner: Tie Performance Perhaps the most important aspect of these cars is how they perform. Thankfully, they’re both monsters.
The Tesla Model S, for starters, is available in two variants: a standard Model S, and a Model S Plaid. The standard Model S is extremely quick, accelerating from 0 to 60 miles per hour in only 3.1 seconds. But step up to the Model S Plaid and you’ll get even faster, reaching 60 mph in only 1.99 seconds. That makes the Model S Plaid the fastest production car right now.
Porsche The Porsche Taycan isn’t slow though — far from it. The base model of the Porsche Taycan hits speed in 5.1 seconds, which isn’t bad — but step up to the Taycan Turbo S, and you’ll get there in only 2.6 seconds. There are a number of models in-between those, too.
Still, despite the fact that there are more Taycan model options out there, none of them beat the Model S Plaid.
 Tesla gets the win here.
Winner: Tesla Model S Range and charging Tesla has a bit of a head start in the realm of electric cars — and it shows. The base Model S offers a range of 405 miles, while the Model S Plaid has a still-great range of 396 miles. That puts the Model S ahead of almost all of the competition in the world of electric cars. And the car can charge relatively quickly, at up to 250 kilowatst. That should allow the car to get 200 miles of charge in around 15 minutes, according to Tesla.
Tesla The Porsche Taycan, unfortunately, doesn’t get quite close in range. The base model of the car only has a 208-mile range, which increases to 246 miles on higher-end models. That’s not even close to the Model S. The Taycan can charge a little faster, at 270kW — which will allow the car to get from 5% to 80% in 22.5 minutes, according to Porsche. Keep in mind, you’ll have to charge at a station that supports the fast charging speed.
The faster charging is nice, but the extra range is more important. The Tesla gets the win.
Winner: Tesla Model S Pricing and availability Both the Tesla Model S and the Porsche Taycan are now available, so you can get one for yourself if you so choose. But the price isn’t quite the same. The Tesla Model S starts at $74,990 for the standard model, or $89,990 for the Model S Plaid. The Porsche Taycan, on the other hand, starts at $90,900, ranging up from there to the Taycan Turbo S Cross Turismo, which starts at an eye-watering $197,500.
There’s no competition here — the Tesla is the winner in the price category.
Winner: Tesla Model S Overall winner: Tesla Model S The Tesla Model S is not only cheaper, but it’s a better overall electric car than the Porsche Taycan. The Model S may not be as unique in design, but it has a much better range, superior performance, and comes at a lower price. The Porsche Taycan may still be better for your needs, especially if you want something with echoes of that classic Porsche design. But if you don’t mind the Model S look, you’ll find the Tesla to be a better car overall.
Editors' Recommendations Tesla Model Y vs. Nissan Ariya: Can Tesla take out Nissan’s electric crossover? Tesla Model 3 vs. Polestar 2: Which electric sedan reigns supreme? Tesla Model Y vs. Hyundai Ioniq 5: Which crossover reigns supreme? The BMW i4 is more luxurious than the Tesla Model S, and costs way less Tesla Model 3 vs. Tesla Model Y: Bigger or cheaper? Tesla Versus Cars The electric car world is seriously heating up, with a number of high-end electric crossovers now available, albeit still at a higher price than comparable gas-powered cars. The Tesla Model Y is one of the first of these, offering the Tesla design, a high-tech software experience, and more. But another one of the older of these models is the Volkswagen ID.4, which was first released in 2021 and also offers among the better electric car experiences out there.
Can the ID.4 compete with one of the best-selling electric cars out there? We put the two head-to-head to find out.
Design The first thing to compare between these two cars is design, and they take a slightly different approach.
Cars I may finally be on my way toward buying my first EV. Sure, I've tested dozens of electric car models over the years, but despite that (or perhaps because of it), I have yet to buy one. But my family is growing, and my wife and I aren't so sure about carting our future kids around in an aging car that lacks the safety features of modern vehicles.
Because of the fact that we're expecting our kid in January, we have a bit of a deadline. So what are we leaning toward? Well, despite the fact that it's far from my favorite EV, we may actually end up just getting a Model Y.
Timing makes a difference If the baby was coming along in a year's time, things might be completely different. There are a few reasons for that.
Cars There are finally some more electric sedan options. For years, the Tesla Model 3 was really the only good electric sedan that comes at a reasonable price -- until, Hyundai recently launched the Ioniq 6. The Ioniq 6 certainly takes some cues from the larger Ioniq 5, but is smaller and sleeker, with a design seemingly inspired by the Porsche 911.
But the Tesla Model 3 is still clearly an excellent option for those looking for an electric car, and who don't want a larger crossover. Which is better? Here's a look.
Design The exterior design of the Tesla Model 3 and Hyundai Ioniq 6 is quite different. If you've seen a Tesla car before, then you'll immediately recognize the Model 3 -- it looks largely like a slightly different version of every other Tesla (except the Cybertruck).
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
