Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Tesla Supercharger Reset Screen in Tesla Tesla Phone Tesla Roadster Tesla Model X vs Tesla Model Y Tesla Optimus Tesla Destination Chargers Home Cars Products Tesla Model Y vs. Hyundai Ioniq 5: Which crossover reigns supreme? By Christian de Looper Close Stephen Edelstein / Digital Trends Electric crossovers are all the range. As EVs have become increasingly popular, a large portion of carmakers seem to have focused on crossover-sized cars. Sure, they’ll often market these as SUVs, but they’re actually smaller than what most people think of when they think of an SUV — and as such, they’re better thought of as crossovers instead. Two of the most popular of these crossovers are the Tesla Model Y and Hyundai Ioniq 5 — cars that have been out for a few years now.
Design Interior and tech Performance Range and charging Pricing and availability Overall winner: Tesla Model Y But considering they’re both such highly respected cars, is one of them better than the other? To be sure, neither of the two cars are bad options — but one of them does have a slight edge. We put the two cars head –to-head to find out which one is actually best.
Design The first thing you’ll notice about these two cars is their design. They’re both relatively unique compared to cars from other manufacturers, though perhaps not as much when compared to cars from the same manufacturer.
Tesla Model S vs. Porsche Taycan: turning heads and snapping necks Tesla Model S vs. Model X: Which is right for you? BMW iX vs Tesla Model Y: miles apart on price, but closer than you think The Tesla Model Y, of course, looks much like other Tesla cars. Tesla has built a design language around its cars, and all but the unreleased Cybertruck use it. They’re so similar that sometimes it can actually be hard to tell which Tesla model you’re looking at. but the the Model Y still looks relatively fresh and modern, with a generally minimalistic aesthetic overall.
Tesla Inc That’s not to say that the Ioniq 5 doesn’t look unique, though. On the contrary, it looks very unique. Hyundai has been making use of its new pixel aesthetic, which exudes a 1980s design sensibility — in all the best ways. It still looks modern too, thanks to the sleek, angular lines along the side and the long stretches of lights on the back.
Ultimately, design comes down to personal preference. Both cars look great, and this one’s a tie.
Winner: Tie Interior and tech The design sensibilities from the exterior of the car are apparent on the inside too. Both have highly functional interiors, but they look and feel quite different.
Like the exterior, the interior of the Tesla Model Y is quite minimalistic. Step inside and you’ll see few controls and buttons — the vast majority of functions are accessed through the display at the front of the car, including things like climate controls. Some people may not like this approach — after all, physical buttons and knobs are easy to use without having to look at them when you’re driving.
Joel Patel / Digital Trends For those people, there’s the Ioniq 5. Now, to be clear, you’ll still access many of the Ioniq 5’s features through the display at the front. But at least the climate controls are given capacitive buttons underneath the screen. That screen supports Android Auto and Apple CarPlay , unlike the Tesla, which relies solely on its own infotainment system.
Other aspects of the cars’ interiors are slightly different too. The Model Y has a little more cargo space than the Ioniq 5, with 30.2 cubic feet, compared to the 27.2 cubic feet for the Hyundai. That’s not to mention the additional space that you’ll get from the large frunk in the Model Y. The seat materials are also a little different — a vegan leather in the Tesla, compared to a fabric cover in the Hyundai.
This one’s also subjective. If you like minimalism, you’ll prefer the Tesla — and while Tesla’s built-in infotainment system is better, the Ioniq 5 supports Android Auto and CarPlay.
Winner: Tie Performance The Tesla Model Y and Hyundai Ioniq 5 both benefit from that immediate power that you get from modern electric cars — but they don’t perform exactly the same.
The Tesla Model Y is available with two drivetrains as of the time of this writing. There’s the Tesla Model Y Long Range, which has a top speed of 135 miles per hour and can accelerate from 0 to 60 mph in 4.8 seconds. And there’s the Tesla Model Y Performance, which steps that up to a top speed of 155 miles per hour and can get to 60 mph in only 3.5 seconds. That’s pretty quick.
Tesla The Ioniq 5 is available in a single- or dual-motor configuration with a number of different drivetrains, however, even the fastest, which will get you from 0 to 60 mph in 4.5 seconds, won’t quite match the acceleration of the Tesla Model Y Performance. Unfortunately, the lower-end models of the Ioniq 5 are much slower, getting to that speed in over 7 seconds.
Performance is a clear win for the Tesla Model Y.
Winner: Tesla Model Y Range and charging Range and charging specifications are a little different between these two cars too. The Model Y has a range of 330 miles in the Long Range model, or 303 miles in the Performance model. Either way, you’re getting a car with a decently long range.
The Ioniq 5 can’t match those numbers. The base model of the Ioniq 5 , called the Ioniq 5 SE Standard Range, offers 220 miles, however, the other models have a range of either 266 miles or 303 miles, depending on whether you get the all-wheel drive or rear-wheel drive model.
Joel Patel / Digital Trends The Ioniq 5 may not have as long of a range as the Tesla, but it does charge quicker. The Ioniq 5 offers a charging speed of 350 kilowatts, which can get it charged up to 80% in only 18 minutes. That’s very impressive. The Tesla Model Y doesn’t charge slowly though — it offers a charging speed of 250kW, so you’ll still be able to get 50% of charge in 15 minutes, which isn’t bad.
Still, I think most will find range more important than charging speed. This one goes to Tesla.
Winner: Tesla Model Y Pricing and availability Last but not least is pricing and availability. Both of these cars are available to buy now — so if you choose one, you can pull the trigger. The Ioniq 5 ranges in price from $41,450 for the base SE Standard Range model, all the way up to $52,600 for the Ioniq 5 Limited model.
The Model Y isn’t quite that inexpensive. It comes in at $50,490 for the Model Y Long Range, or $54,490 for the Model Y Performance.
There’s a clear winner here — the Ioniq 5 is much cheaper.
Winner: Hyundai Ioniq 5 Overall winner: Tesla Model Y The Hyundai Ioniq 5 is an excellent car, with a supercool design and great features. But it can’t quite compete with the electric car experience that of the Tesla. The Model Y performs better and has a longer range, making it the clearly better car. You really can’t go wrong with either of these two cars — but if you’re having a hard time deciding, the Model Y may be the way to go.
Editors' Recommendations The Hyundai Ioniq 5 N makes one of the coolest EVs ready for the track Tesla Model Y vs. Nissan Ariya: Can Tesla take out Nissan’s electric crossover? Tesla Model 3 vs. Polestar 2: Which electric sedan reigns supreme? Tesla Model 3 Highland: release date, range, design update, and more Tesla Model 3 vs. Tesla Model Y: Bigger or cheaper? Hyundai Tesla Versus Cars While Tesla may still make the most popular electric cars, the likes of Kia and Hyundai have also been firing on all cylinders, and their respective options, the EV6 and the Ioniq 5, have a lot going for them.
But the two cars are very similar. In fact, they're built on the same platform, with Kia and Hyundai actually being sister companies under the Hyundai Motor Group. So which one is better? We put the Kia EV6 and Hyundai Ioniq 5 head-to-head to find out.
Design The EV6 and Ioniq 5 may be sister electric crossovers, but they actually take a pretty different approach to design.
Cars The electric car world is seriously heating up, with a number of high-end electric crossovers now available, albeit still at a higher price than comparable gas-powered cars. The Tesla Model Y is one of the first of these, offering the Tesla design, a high-tech software experience, and more. But another one of the older of these models is the Volkswagen ID.4, which was first released in 2021 and also offers among the better electric car experiences out there.
Can the ID.4 compete with one of the best-selling electric cars out there? We put the two head-to-head to find out.
Design The first thing to compare between these two cars is design, and they take a slightly different approach.
Cars I may finally be on my way toward buying my first EV. Sure, I've tested dozens of electric car models over the years, but despite that (or perhaps because of it), I have yet to buy one. But my family is growing, and my wife and I aren't so sure about carting our future kids around in an aging car that lacks the safety features of modern vehicles.
Because of the fact that we're expecting our kid in January, we have a bit of a deadline. So what are we leaning toward? Well, despite the fact that it's far from my favorite EV, we may actually end up just getting a Model Y.
Timing makes a difference If the baby was coming along in a year's time, things might be completely different. There are a few reasons for that.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
