Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Tesla Supercharger Reset Screen in Tesla Tesla Phone Tesla Roadster Tesla Model X vs Tesla Model Y Tesla Optimus Tesla Destination Chargers Home Cars Features Tesla Model Y vs. Nissan Ariya: Can Tesla take out Nissan’s electric crossover? By Christian de Looper Close Stephen Edelstein / Digital Trends Nissan has been a little slow to the punch when it comes to electrification (besides the Leaf , of course). But now, it’s finally starting to electrify its lineup with the new Nissan Ariya. The Ariya is a crossover similar in size to the likes of the Ford Mustang Mach-E, the Kia EV6, and, of course, the Tesla Model Y.
Design Interior and tech Performance Range and charging Pricing and availability Overall winner: Tesla Model Y If you’re in the market for a new electric car, you might be wondering whether you should go for the now-everywhere Tesla Model Y or stick with the newer Nissan Ariya. Both cars are seemingly more tech-focused, however, while the Ariya builds on Nissan’s decades of experience in the automotive industry, the Model Y takes a still-fresh approach to its car, at least compared to the competition.
So which electric car is right for your needs? Here’s everything you need to know.
Tesla Model 3 vs. Hyundai Ioniq 6: Which electric sedan is best? Move aside, Tesla. The Hyundai Ioniq 6 is the best electric sedan for the masses Elon Musk busts some moves at new Giga Berlin Tesla factory Design The Nissan Ariya and Tesla Model Y take a pretty different approach to design. If you’ve seen a Tesla before, you’ll immediately recognize the Model Y — it offers a similar design language to Tesla’s other cars, with a relatively minimalistic look and feel to it. It has slim headlights at the front, a nicely rounded roofline, and flush door handles that give it a sleeker look overall.
Tesla The Nissan Ariya takes a slightly more conventional approach. It looks much more like previous-generation gas-powered cars, even going so far as to have a faux grille at the front. While design is somewhat subjective, the car can look slightly disproportionate, with a sloped roofline at the top and a much larger body than you might expect.
That’s not to say it’s ugly by any means — but if you’re looking for something completely fresh and modern, then the Nissan Ariya may not be for you. That said, design is subjective and not everyone likes how Teslas look. This one’s a tie.
Winner: Tie Interior and tech The different approach to design extends to the interior of the cars too.
The Tesla Model Y’s interior is minimalistic and scaled-back, putting most of the controls into the infotainment system instead of offering physical controls for things like climate. Some will consider this look sleek — but I generally prefer physical controls, except on rare occasions where companies truly do digital controls right.
The Model Y is pretty tech-heavy, though. The car boasts a large 15.4-inch display at the front, with a relatively well-designed and easy to use operating system. From here, you’ll gain access to Tesla’s suite of cameras, driver-assistance features, and mapping.
Stephen Edelstein / Digital Trends The Nissan Ariya, again, takes a more conventional approach. There are many more physical controls and buttons, coupled with dual 12.3-inch displays at the front for instruments and infotainment. The car’s software isn’t as well-designed as Tesla’s, but it does support CarPlay through a wireless connection, unlike Tesla, which doesn’t support CarPlay at all.
Ultimately, interior design is subjective, but there’s no denying that the Model Y offers more, and better, tech.
Winner: Tesla Model Y Performance Both the Tesla Model Y and the Nissan Ariya benefit from that electric car zip, but they don’t quite perform the same.
The Nissan Ariya, for starters, is available in a number of different powertrain and battery size options, all with slightly different performance and range numbers. Nissan doesn’t really advertise zero-to-60 times, but MotorTrend noted that the single-motor variant got from zero to 60 miles per hour in 7.5 seconds, while the dual-motor configuration hit that speed at 5 seconds. Those are quick times.
Tesla But not as quick as some variants of the Model Y. The standard Model Y is able to get from zero-to-60 in 6.6 seconds, but upgrade to the Model Y Long Range, and you’ll reach 60 in only 4.8 seconds. Step up one more time to the Model Y Performance, and you’ll get to 60 mph in an astounding 3.5 seconds.
Winner: Tesla Model Y Range and charging The range on these cars differs, too. The Nissan Ariya has a range of between 205 miles and a much more livable 304 miles, though to get that, you’ll need to pay for higher-end models. Unfortunately, it doesn’t charge very quickly; the maximum rate is 130 kilowatts, which is pretty low.
Stephen Edelstein / Digital Trends The Tesla steps things up, once again. The Model Y has a range of between 260 miles for the base model and 330 miles for the Long Range model. Add in the fact that the car can charge at up to 250kW (and has access to the Supercharger network), and there’s a clear winner here.
Winner: Tesla Model Y Pricing and availability Both the Tesla Model Y and the Nissan Ariya are now available, and you can get either one through their respective channels. The prices are similar, too. The Nissan Ariya starts at a little over $43,000, while the Model Y starts at almost $44,000 at the time of this writing.
The difference in price is minimal, but cheaper is cheaper.
Winner: Nissan Ariya Overall winner: Tesla Model Y This one is a pretty clear victory for Tesla. The Nissan Ariya isn’t a bad car — far from it. But the Tesla Model Y shows Tesla’s experience here. Even without considering design, the Model Y has a better performance and longer range — two things that are crucial to a good electric car experience. If you’re looking for an electric crossover and deciding between the Tesla Model Y and the Nissan Ariya, the Model Y is the way to go.
Editors' Recommendations The Tesla Model Y is far from my favorite EV, but I’m pretty close to buying one Tesla launches more affordable Model S and Model X, but there’s a catch Tesla’s Model 3 is reportedly heading for a redesign Tesla receives massive Model 3 order from car-rental giant Hertz Watch Elon Musk’s high-speed start to Tesla’s Model S Plaid delivery event Features Tesla News Tesla boss Elon Musk said this week that the automaker ditched the lumbar support feature on the front passenger seat of the Model 3 and Model Y because vehicle logs revealed that it was hardly used.
“Logs showed almost no usage,” Musk tweeted in response to a follower who was complaining about Tesla’s recent price hikes, adding, “Not worth cost/mass for everyone when almost never used.” News Prices for Tesla’s Model 3 and Model Y vehicles have been on the rise recently. In May the electric-car company bumped up prices for the fifth time in several months, but the company has remained silent about what’s behind the increases. Until now, that is.
Tesla CEO Elon Musk said in a tweet on Monday, May 31, that the hikes are due to "major supply chain pressure industry-wide," adding, “Raw materials especially.” Computing Tesla's newly redesigned Model S sedan for 2021 could be the perfect road trip companion. Alongside a top cruising speed of 200 miles per hour, you're also getting the power of Sony's PlayStation 5 inside your ride to keep you entertained for the entire journey.
In its press announcement in late January, Tesla didn't reveal which processor or GPU will be powering its 2021 Model S, but we are now learning that the rig could be powered by the same AMD graphics architecture found across game consoles and PCs. A leaked schematic posted by Patrick Schur revealed Tesla could be using AMD's Navi 23 graphics processor inside the new Model S, which would mean that the car would share the same RDNA 2 architecture as some popular gaming systems.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
