Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Cars News The Hyundai Ioniq 5 N makes one of the coolest EVs ready for the track By Christian de Looper Close The Hyundai Ioniq 5 is getting even more powerful. Hyundai has unveiled a new variant of the now-loved EV, giving it the classic N treatment — and making for the new Hyundai Ioniq 5 N.
If you’re familiar with Hyundai’s N cars, you’ll know what this variant means. The new car boasts racing-style accents, turns the pixel design up to eleven, and, as you would expect, offers a new powertrain and a range of performance-focused features that will make driving the new Ioniq 5 N a whole lot more fun.
IONIQ 5 N was developed to take driving fun to a new level by utilizing the latest technologies available,” said Till Wartenberg, vice president and head of N Brand and Motorsport at Hyundai Motor Company. “Starting with IONIQ 5 N, N brand aims to deliver its signature fun driving experience regardless of petrol, electric or hydrogen. To accomplish this, we’ve closely monitored the voices of our N fans in order to fine-tune our first all-electric N with the goal of electrifying the driving passion of our most demanding N-thusiasts.” Hyundai First, the styling. The car offers N branding throughout, including on the steering wheel, seats, and metal pedals. The steering wheel itself has N buttons that allow drivers to shift between N drive modes, and the modes themselves can be customized to be more easily accessible through the N buttons on the wheel. The center console is built with knee pads for more comfortable track driving and cornering.
I’m glad the Hyundai Ioniq 6 isn’t just a smaller Ioniq 5 Watch Hyundai’s Ioniq 5 EV perform a crab walk See inside Amazon’s new EV trucks, now making deliveries in Los Angeles Hyundai is quick to note that the car boasts a range of technical improvements over previous iterations of the Ioniq 5. For example, the car offers a new 84kWh battery with a two-stage inverter that enables up to a whopping 641 horsepower — with the N Grin Boost, which delivers maximum power to the wheels for 10 seconds, engaged.
Hyundai Hyundai typically bills its N cars as being built for the track. The car is reinforced in an effort to better support track driving, with 42 additional welding points, and 6.9 feet of added structural adhesives. And, the steering system was strengthened in an effort to improve rigidity, helping improve overall steering response. According to Hyundai, the Ioniq 5 N offers a quicker steering ratio. This should make for a more nuanced steering experience overall.
Because of the fact that Hyundai had to counteract the weight of an electric car to deliver a sporty driving experience, it built the new N Pedal system, which adds an additional layer of regenerative braking that can help make for sharper cornering when coupled with more aggressive steering.
Hyundai The Ioniq 5 N is built for drifting too. It has a new N Drift Optimizer feature that is aimed at taking in the multiple inputs of the car and simulating the feel of drifting on a combustion engine car. According to Hyundai, the N Drift Optimizer reacts in milliseconds, so the feel of drifting the Ioniq 5 N should be more or less the same as other cars.
While the Hyundai Ioniq 5 N is clearly a cool car, it’s definitely not for most people.
The base Ioniq 5 certainly is one of the better EVs for most people — but most drivers that aren’t performance-minded should consider one of the entry-level models instead. Still, that’s not to take away from the Ioniq 5 N — and it’s nice to see that Hyundai is continuing the tradition with its electric cars.
Editors' Recommendations Big EVs are almost here: 7 upcoming electric SUVs we’re excited for Hyundai Ioniq 6 first drive review: welcome to the future Hyundai Ioniq 5 first drive review: Retro modern Additional driving range makes the Hyundai Ioniq Electric a more competitive EV Google Maps makes it easier to find EV charging stations via plug type Hyundai Tech News Cars Previous Next Cars Automakers are quick to say that electric cars are the future, but most aren’t acting that way. In an effort to convince customers to overlook teething problems with charging infrastructure, amortize major investments in battery manufacturing as quickly as possible, and maybe replicate a bit of that Tesla magic, automakers have been emphasizing performance and tech gimmicks instead of what really matters: building cars people can afford. Change is coming, though, and from an unexpected source.
Volvo is known for safety and sensible Swedish design, not value. But the 2025 Volvo EX30 undercuts EVs from mainstream brands like Hyundai, Kia, and Volkswagen in price without compromising range, features, or style. Pricing starts at just $36,245 for the base Single Motor Extended Range Core model, and even the maxed-out price of $47,895 for a Twin Motor Performance Ultra looks inexpensive compared to the stratospheric heights some EV prices can reach when all option boxes are checked.
Cars Lucid Motors has become the latest automaker to announce that it will adopt the North American Charging Standard (NACS) – also known as "the Tesla plug" – for its electric vehicles.
The move follows in the footsteps of more than a dozen other automakers that have also adopted Tesla’s charging connector, among them General Motors, Ford, Toyota, BMW, Jaguar Land Rover, Volvo, and Honda.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
