Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Cars Features 900 miles on a charge? How Toyota’s solid-state battery tech could revolutionize EVs By Christian de Looper Close Stephen Edelstein / Digital Trends The biggest question first-time buyers have when buying an EV relates to range. “How far can I go in this thing?” What is a solid-state battery? What does it mean for EVs? Will other companies use this tech? Supply shortages It makes sense. While making it 300 miles or so isn’t bad for a modern EV, it does mean that you have to stop at a charging station more regularly than you have to fill a tank on a gas-powered car, and charging can be a little time-consuming. So what’s the fix? Either better range or faster charging — and Toyota says that it has cracked the code for the former.
At a technical briefing in early July, Toyota announced that it has made a breakthrough in battery technology that will allow it to eventually create batteries that offer a whopping 745 miles of range on a single charge — and that it’s aiming to create a battery that would give an electric car 900 miles of range.
Tesla’s new million-mile battery could finally make electric cars affordable New battery design could mean EVs charge in only 10 minutes New research could help Tesla’s EV batteries last for a million miles But don’t put off that Prius Prime purchase just yet. As with all new technologies, there are still hurdles to clear and a long road ahead. Here’s everything you need to know about Toyota’s solid-state battery tech, and what it means for EVs going forward.
What is a solid-state battery? The way a conventional battery works is quite simple. It has a cathode on one side and an anode on the other. Generally, batteries create a reaction by causing electrons to flow from one side to the other, which in turn creates a circuit and powers your device.
Christian de Looper / Digital Trends To date, EVs have used essentially the same kinds of batteries as those used in our phones, smartwatches, and so on. In these batteries, the cathode and anode live right next to each other, separated by a porous plastic membrane that allows the liquid electrolyte solution to flow from one side to another, generating current.
A solid-state battery keeps the fundamentals — it has an anode and a cathode, and it causes electrons to flow from one side to the other. But in a solid-state battery, the separator between the anode and the cathode is also the electrolyte.
The end result? A more energy-dense battery that allows manufacturers to fit more energy in smaller packages. Solid-state batteries are also much faster to charge — so you’ll spend less time waiting at electric car charging stations.
Christian de Looper / Digital Trends The tech has actually existed for some time now, but solid-state batteries have been expensive and difficult to manufacture, preventing them from being used widely. Toyota says that it has simplified the production of solid-state batteries, which could be a huge development for the vehicles they’ll power.
What does it mean for EVs? If the tech truly does live up to its potential, it will be game-changing for electric cars. For Toyota, this means that it could produce cars that offer a range of up to 900 miles or more. The company says that it plans to release electric cars with this new battery tech by 2028 — so we will have to wait a while to take advantage of it.
Christian de Looper / Digital Trends What would a car with a solid-state battery perform like? As mentioned, Toyota says that its first generation will reach a range of around 740 miles, and be able to charge in around 10 minutes. They’ll also be safer — since solid-state batteries don’t have the same flammable liquid solution found in current batteries.
Will other companies use this tech? If this looks like a trump card that will allow Toyota to dominate EVs after dragging its feet on them for years, think twice. We know for a fact that companies other than Toyota are heavily invested in solid-state battery tech, so even if Toyota is the first to deploy it in a car, other companies surely won’t be far behind. For example, Mercedes-Benz has entered a partnership with ProLogium, an energy company focused on solid-state battery tech. Volkswagen is partnered up with QuantumScape, and BMW has partnered with the U.S. company Solid Power.
ProLogium So, while Toyota has certainly made headlines for its breakthroughs, don’t expect it to be the only company with longer-range, faster-charging cars. These solid-state cars will take some time to come to market — but when they do, they’ll likely make for a much better EV experience overall.
Supply shortages There is one issue that could hamper the production of solid-state batteries though — lithium supply. Solid-state batteries could end up using a lot more lithium than traditional batteries. Some research suggests that solid-state batteries could use five to 10 times as much lithium as current-gen batteries. There’s already a lithium shortage, so that’s a major issue.
So what’s the solution? Right now it’s hard to say.
EV battery recycling could play an important role, but even then it’s unlikely we’ll be able to recycle enough lithium to supply materials for new battery tech. We’ll have to wait and see how battery manufacturers address this. But with at least five years before we expect to see this tech in production vehicles, it’s possible that the supply question could look quite different by the time they’re ready for the road.
Editors' Recommendations Toyota announces site for its first U.S. battery plant Bentley’s first electric car could use cutting-edge solid-state batteries Toyota is extending warranties on EV batteries because they’re lasting so long How re-engineering an old technology could give us EVs with 700 miles of range Toyota pushes ahead with solid-state batteries for future electric cars Features Toyota Cars Lucid Motors has become the latest automaker to announce that it will adopt the North American Charging Standard (NACS) – also known as "the Tesla plug" – for its electric vehicles.
The move follows in the footsteps of more than a dozen other automakers that have also adopted Tesla’s charging connector, among them General Motors, Ford, Toyota, BMW, Jaguar Land Rover, Volvo, and Honda.
Cars General Motors-owned Cruise has halted production of its fully driverless vehicle -- the Origin -- just over a week after it suspended robotaxi operations nationwide following a number of troubling incidents involving its cars.
The news was announced by Cruise CEO Kyle Vogt during a meeting with staff on Monday, according to Forbes, which obtained audio of the gathering.
Cars The Ram brand is finally taking an electrified approach, and by resurrecting the Ramcharger name, no less. Alongside the new 2025 Ram 1500, the company has unveiled the new 2025 Ram 1500 Ramcharger, a new plug-in hybrid that Ram touts as offering "unlimited battery electric range." The new truck is one of a number of electrified trucks, the most well-known of which include the fully-electric Ford F-150 Lightning and the new Chevrolet Silverado EV. But instead of being fully electric, the 1500 Ramcharger is a plug-in hybrid, meaning that it has an electric motor and battery, and a gas tank and engine.
The plug-in approach It's perhaps a smart move. Electric trucks show a lot of promise -- but they start to falter a little when it comes to things like towing and hauling heavy loads. Keeping the 1500 Ramcharger a hybrid means that with no load or light ones, the truck can zip around town on electric power -- and when necessary, it can switch the engine on to tow or haul. It could well be the perfect combo for many truck owners who at least occasionally need that extra oomph, but who still could stand to save some cash -- and go a little easier on the environment - when simply driving around town.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
