Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Tesla Supercharger Reset Screen in Tesla Tesla Phone Tesla Roadster Tesla Model X vs Tesla Model Y Tesla Optimus Tesla Destination Chargers Home Cars Guides Products Volkswagen ID.4 vs Tesla Model Y By Christian de Looper Close Stephen Edelstein / Digital Trends The electric car world is seriously heating up, with a number of high-end electric crossovers now available, albeit still at a higher price than comparable gas-powered cars.
The Tesla Model Y is one of the first of these, offering the Tesla design, a high-tech software experience, and more. But another one of the older of these models is the Volkswagen ID.4, which was first released in 2021 and also offers among the better electric car experiences out there.
Design Interior and tech Performance Range and charging Pricing and availability Overall winner: Tesla Model Y Can the ID.4 compete with one of the best-selling electric cars out there? We put the two head-to-head to find out.
Design The first thing to compare between these two cars is design, and they take a slightly different approach.
Lucid joins other automakers by adopting Tesla charging plug Volkswagen ID.GTI concept is another icon reimagined as an EV Tesla launches more affordable Model S and Model X, but there’s a catch The Tesla Model Y , for starters, looks like other Tesla cars. It offers the same modern approach, with slanted headlights at the front, and a minimalistic look overall. Tesla’s design has been aging a little, given the fact that it has largely remained unchanged for some time now — but there’s no denying that the Model Y still looks generally sleek.
Tesla Sleeker than the ID.4, anyway.
The ID.4 isn’t necessarily an ugly car, but it certainly doesn’t look as modern or sleek as many other electric cars. I find the ID.4 to be less sleek than most top electric cars out there — in my opinion, the Model Y, Kia EV6, Hyundai Ioniq 5 , and Ford Mustang Mach-E all look leagues better.
Generally, the ID.4 offers a more conservative approach to design, and you wouldn’t know that it’s electric just by looking at it. It has a rounded roof along the top, with a light bar that stretches along the back of the car. Despite not liking the overall design, I do like that touch.
Design is generally subjective, so if you disagree, feel free to disregard this section. In my opinion, though, this one goes to Tesla.
Winner: Tesla Model Y Interior and tech The design ethos that Tesla and Volkswagen take on the outside continues on the inside. That’s to say, the Tesla Model Y is minimalistic and modern, while the Volkswagen ID.4 looks a little more traditional.
Now, that may not be a good thing for everyone. Tesla has been fairly criticized for moving too much into the screen. The ID.4 keeps lots of steering wheel controls, meaning that you don’t have to dive into settings for many of the controls. You will still have to use the screen for climate controls, though.
Stephen Edelstein/Digital Trends / Volkswagen Tesla has a leg up in the tech section too. Tesla has worked hard to ensure that its software experience is great — and while its infotainment system could still be better, it’s among the best out there right now. The ID.4’s infotainment system looks dated and is harder to navigate — though thankfully, unlike the Tesla, it supports CarPlay and Android Auto. On the flip side, the Model Y has a much larger infotainment display, which is nice.
Other tech is a little better on the Tesla too. Tesla offers things like cameras for security and more autonomous driving tech, even though some of that comes at an extra cost. The Tesla is just more high-tech than the ID.4. It gets the win here.
Winner: Tesla Model Y Performance Both the Model Y and the ID.4 are available with multiple powertrain options. The standard Model Y has a 5.0-second acceleration from 0 to 60 mph — but it jumps up to 3.5 seconds for the Tesla Model Y Performance. The Model Y has a horsepower of between 425 and 455, again, depending on the model.
Tesla The Volkswagen ID.4, on the other hand, doesn’t quite match that — even the fastest ID.4, the ID.4 Pro S Plus, is slower than the slowest Model Y at 5.8 seconds. It has a horsepower of between 201 and 295.
The Model Y gets the win here, pretty easily.
Winner: Tesla Model Y Range and charging Range is one of the most important aspects of any modern electric car. The Tesla Model Y is pretty good at range — offering 279 miles in the base Model Y, and up to 330 miles in the Model Y Long Range. The ID.4 is quite a bit lower. The base model of the ID.4 is the ID.4 Standard, and it has a range of 209 miles, with the highest-range model being the ID.4 Pro S at 275 miles.
Stephen Edelstein/Digital Trends / Volkswagen When the Model Y does run out of juice, it has the benefit of being able to use Tesla’s large network of Superchargers and other public chargers, while the ID.4 can’t use Tesla chargers just yet. The Model Y can charge at up to 250 kilowatts, which will get you from 10% to 80% charge in 27 minutes. The ID.4 supports a charging speed of 135kW, and it’ll get you from 10% to 80% in around 33 minutes.
No matter how you look at this category, Tesla wins.
Winner: Tesla Model Y Pricing and availability The Tesla Model Y may have won all the categories so far, but price is an area where the Volkswagen ID.4 could gain some traction. The base price of the Tesla Model Y is $47,740 for the standard range model. The base price of the Volkswagen ID.4, however, is a much lower $38,995. Sure, you could spend more on higher-end models, but the fact is that if you want to spend less, then the Volkswagen ID.4 is a better choice.
Both cars are readily available — but considering the price, this one goes to Volkswagen.
Winner: Volkswagen ID.4 Overall winner: Tesla Model Y This was always going to be a tough competition for Volkswagen. Even if you disregard subjective things like design, the Tesla Model Y still performs better and has a longer range and faster charging. But it’s also more expensive — you’ll have to pay for those better features. If you don’t mind spending the extra cash and are deciding between these two cars, then the Model Y is probably a better option — but if you could stand to save some cash, the ID.4 is still a solid EV.
Editors' Recommendations Tesla says Cybertruck resellers could face harsh penalties Tesla Model 3 vs. Tesla Model Y: Bigger or cheaper? Tesla’s Elon Musk can build his unusual Supercharger station Tesla shows off first Cybertruck after two years of delays Ford EV drivers can use 12,000 Tesla Superchargers starting in 2024 Buying Guides Buying Guides Tesla Cars Volkswagen wants its electric cars to go head-to-head with gasoline models, but only now is it replacing one of those models with an EV.
While, the VW ID.4 is pitched as an electric alternative to popular gasoline crossover SUVs, and the ID.Buzz taps a well of nostalgia, the Volkswagen ID.7 fills a gap in the lineup left by the Passat, which ended production with the 2022 model year after nearly 50 years as VW's staple sedan in the United States.
Scheduled to go on sale in the U.S. in 2024, and previously teased at CES 2023, the ID.7 aims to breathe new life into the sedan segment with electric power, more tech, and aerodynamic styling reminiscent of the other ID models. Yet while it's a recommitment to sedans for VW, the ID.7 doesn't have the market to itself. EV shoppers already have the Hyundai Ioniq 6, Polestar 2, and Tesla Model 3 to consider.
A sleeker shape Stripping away the camouflage shows many styling features that are recognizable from other ID models, including slim headlights mounted high on a grille-less front fascia, rounded edges, and body sides with sectioned, sloping elements like beachside cliffs that have been subject to much erosion. As with the ID.4 and ID.Buzz, the goal was to reduce aerodynamic drag and create a look that's distinctively EV.
The ID.7 is 1.7 inches longer than the Passat, with a 6.4-inch longer wheelbase that should benefit interior space. It's also a bit wider and taller than the Passat, which was a midsize sedan roughly the same size as well-known models like the Honda Accord and Toyota Camry. The ID.7 also has the fastback shape of the VW Arteon, positioned as a more luxurious model than the old Passat, but is 2.1 inches longer.
These dimensions make the ID.7 the largest VW sedan (the only other such model in VW's U.S. lineup is the compact Jetta) but put it close to other electric sedans. It's longer than the Hyundai Ioniq 6, Polestar 2, and Tesla Model 3, but the Hyundai's wheelbase is nearly the same. The VW is about as wide as these other models, but it's the tallest of the group, standing about four inches taller than the Tesla.
Cars The BMW i4 and Tesla Model 3 are two of the hottest electric cars on the market today. Both vehicles offer a range of features designed to make driving easy and efficient, as well as attractive styling. But each has its advantages and disadvantages, and there is much that sets them apart in terms of performance, technology, convenience, and cost.
Deciding between the two? That's why we've put together this guide. Here are the differences and similarities between the Tesla Model 3 and BMW i4, and why you might want one over the other.
Design Cars Every major carmaker, from Ford to Volvo and beyond, makes an EV these days, but Tesla has had a bit of a head start. As a result, it now offers a well-rounded lineup of electric cars, including sedans and SUVs. Tesla’s cars are still some of the best EVs out there, and if you’re in the market for an electric car, you’re likely considering a Tesla.
Larger cars, like SUVs and crossovers, are the most popular in the U.S. right now — and Tesla offers two of them: The Tesla Model X and the Tesla Model Y. Both have their advantages and disadvantages, and there are a few major differences, including price. Here’s everything you need to know about the two cars and why one or the other might be better for your needs.
Tesla Model X vs. Tesla Model Y: Design Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
