Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Cars Features Volvo EM90 electric minivan: price, release date, range, and more By Christian de Looper Close Volvo If you want an electric SUV, crossover, or sedan, you’re spoiled for choices right now.
Kia EV6 ? Rivian R1S ? Volvo EX30 ? All great picks.
Volvo EM90 design Volvo EM90 interior and tech Volvo EM90 range and charging Volvo EM90 performance Volvo EM90 price and release date But what if you want … a minivan? To date, there has really only been one electric minivan option — the Volkswagen ID.Buzz — and while that is a pretty cool minivan, it’s not the most practical for everyone. That’s where the new Volvo EM90 comes in.
The Volvo EM90 looks like it could become the electric minivan of choice for those who want something practical and stylish. It boasts that minimalistic Volvo design language, that zippy EV performance , and a massive 450 miles of range. Curious about getting the Volvo EM90 for yourself? Here’s everything you need to know.
Kia EV3: Release date, performance, range, and more Volvo EX90 price, range, release date, specs, and more Volvo unveils the electric 2022 C40 Recharge with Android-powered in-car tech Volvo EM90 design Volvo has been refreshing the design of its electric cars over the past few years, to the point where most modern Volvos look sleek, stylish, and modern. The new Volvo EX30 and EX90, for example, are some of the better-looking new cars out there. The Volvo EM90 keeps many of those design cues, with slim segmented headlights along the front and a generally minimalistic look.
Volvo Of course, there’s only so much you can do to a minivan to make it look sleek and stylish — but its weaknesses in design are also its strengths in size. The Volvo EM90 is big and boxy, which translates into a ton of room on the inside of the vehicle.
Volvo EM90 interior and tech Minivans are all about people-moving, and Volvo has been marketing the EM90 as a so-called living room on wheels. What does that mean? Well, as you would expect from a minivan, there’s plenty of room. The EM90 offers six seats, which are made up of the two front seats, two lounge seats in the second row, and a bench in the third row that provides enough room for two more seats.
Like other modern Volvo vehicles, the EM90 is pretty tech-heavy, too. The minivan offers a large 15.4-inch infotainment screen, coupled with a digital instrument cluster. While Volvo hasn’t confirmed what kinds of software run on the EM90, if it’s anything like other Volvo cars, it will have Android Automotive , and it will support Android Auto and CarPlay.
Volvo EM90 range and charging Volvo As mentioned, the Volvo EM90 offers an electric range of a massive 450 miles — however it’s important to take that figure with skepticism. That’s because of the fact that the range rating has been certified by China’s version of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) — but China’s version is much more optimistic. Generally, a good rule of thumb is that cars usually get an EPA rating of around two thirds of the China Light-Duty Vehicle Test Cycle (CTLC) rating.
Still, that would put the Volvo EM90 at around 300 miles of range, which isn’t bad — but about on par with other electric vehicles out there right now. Volvo hasn’t released the charging speed for the car, however it’s expected to be able to charge in under 30 minutes.
Volvo EM90 performance Volvo One of the best things about electric cars is the fact that they benefit from immediate power, delivering instant torque. The Volvo EM90 is both heavy and built to prioritize range over performance, but it’s still relatively quick for a vehicle like this. It’ll get from 0 to 60 miles per hour in 8.3 seconds. That doesn’t touch the faster electric cars out there, but does allow you to get up to speed reasonably quickly.
Volvo EM90 price and release date Interested in getting the Volvo EM90 for yourself? Well, we have some bad news — so far, the EM90 is only getting a China release. Volvo’s wording was that the EM90 would be “coming first to China,” suggesting that more markets will follow. But it stopped short of actually announcing those markets, or any timeline for when it might get a wider release.
If you do happen to live in China, we have more bad news: The EM90 is expected to sell for $114,000, which places it closer to the likes of the Mercedes EQS than the humble Toyota Sienna.
The good news is that automakers are clearly working on more electric form factors. Hopefully, that’ll continue — and we’ll get more big electric cars in the near future.
Editors' Recommendations The Lucid Gravity has more range than any other electric SUV Kia EV5: rumored pricing, design, range, features, and more No mere EV, the sensor-stuffed EX90 is Volvo’s towering tech flagship Waymo and Volvo ink deal to build an all-new electric robo-taxi Additional driving range makes the Hyundai Ioniq Electric a more competitive EV Features Volvo Cars Tesla has once again tweaked the Model 3's pricing structure and specifications. The Californian company's entry-level model is now more expensive, but the cheapest version now offers buyers a little bit more driving range.
The changes weren't publicly announced by Tesla, but they were spotted by Autoblog on the carmaker's online configurator. The lineup is still broken down into three models called Standard Range Plus, Long Range, and Performance The cheapest Model 3 now costs $39,490, a figure that represents a $500 increase. It's also 5,000 more expensive than the $35,000 figure often floated in the months leading up to the car's introduction.
Cars Update: The 2021 Volvo XC40 Recharge is an all-electric version of the Volvo XC40 crossover, which launched for the 2019 model year. While it comes with a not-insignificant price tag, our complete first drive review of the 2021 Volvo XC40 Recharge finds it well worth it.
Here it is in all its glory -- Volvo's first fully electric vehicle. The 2020 Volvo XC40 Recharge charts a new path for the Swedish carmaker, while still retaining and expanding its famous focus on safety. Add in a dash of Scandinavian design and we have a winner on our hands.
Cars On October 16, 2019, Volvo will introduce the all-new, all-electric XC40 with an Android Auto-based infotainment system featuring Google technologies built in. This allows your vehicle to have nearly the same capabilities as your smart phone. According to Volvo, the new infotainment system offers customers unprecedented personalization, improved levels of intuitiveness, and new embedded Google technology and services.
Volvo is the first company to coordinate with Google on integrating an infotainment system powered by Android, with the Google Assistant, Google Maps, and the Google Play Store built-in. The two companies have been development partners for the past several years. This new system has been dubbed Android Automotive OS.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
