Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Audio / Video News SiriusXM reboots satellite radio with new app, features — and price By Phil Nickinson and Andrew Martonik Close Screenshot SiriusXM is simultaneously a legacy brand and one that’s looking toward the future of satellite radio in a streaming world. And today at a celebrity-laden event in New York City — kicked off by none other than Howard Stern — SiriusXM took a more-than 90-minute look at its history, its present, and where it’s going in 2024 and beyond.
A new way to listen in the car (well, some cars) An all-new app experience Even more content Satellite radio was perhaps a bit ahead of its time, allowing subscribers — yes, subscription radio — to listen to music, sports, and talk radio, anywhere in the country. It (brilliantly) worked deals with automakers to work its way into new cars with free trials. And it did so in the space between the advent of the modern smartphone and the introduction of proper streaming media services like Spotify , Apple Music , and YouTube Music.
 Today, SiriusXM boasts somewhere in the neighborhood of nearly 34 million subscribers.
SiriusXM CEO Jennifer Witz at an event in New York City.
Andrew Martonik / Digital Trends The reboot is more than just a new look, new channels, and a new updated app. It’s the new future of everything SiriusXM touches. And at the center of it all will be the people who help power the channels and pick the music you listen to.
SiriusXM’s new VIP plan covers two cars and lots of concerts Apple launches Apple Music Radio with rebranded Beats 1 radio, new stations No car? SiriusXM’s $8 a month streaming plan has everything but Howard Stern “We believe that today, our high-quality, premium curated radio is more relevant than ever,” SiriusXM CEO Jennifer Witz said. “So what sets us apart from other audio services? It’s our human touch. It’s the people who curate our channels. It’s the artists, the personalities. the content creators who drive a deep connection with their fans.” Witz then welcomed Stern to the stage, where we spoke about his transition from terrestrial radio to SiriusXM, and all the freedom it brought him.
And while Witz said there’s plenty more news to be made in 2024, she closed with a bit of a bang — SiriusXM will actually lower its streaming-only subscription to $10 a month. (Details are scarce, but SiriusXM has had three tiers of streaming-only plans, ranging from $5 to $11 a month.) The event also saw live appearances from Conan O’Brien, Kevin Hart, Shaggy, Maren Morris, Ashley Flowers, and Andy Cohen, a performance from Kelly Clarkson (covering Miley Cyrus’ Flowers ), plus recorded bits from John Mayer and James Corden. That’s one heck of a lineup; and a reminder of the clout SiriusXM brings.
Competing against the likes of the major streaming services means that SiriusXM needs to continue to expand.
A new way to listen in the car (well, some cars) Getty Images for SiriusXM A demo in a Cadillac Lyriq EV showed a new interactive take on SiriusXM, all built atop the Android Automotive infotainment system. (That’s the one that’s baked into the car itself and not, like CarPlay or Android Auto , just running atop an existing OEM infotainment system.) In addition to a smart, stylish traditional app experience that displays the sort of categorical results and now-playing screens, the new in-car experience even allows for interactive polls — safely, execs said. And sports programming will be able to point listeners to live games with scores as they’re happening.
The Lyriq demo was very much an unreleased beta system and a look at what’s possible , not necessarily what the SiriusXM experience would look like in every car in the future. SiriusXM is somewhat constrained in what it can offer between manufacturers as they’re far from standardized on Android Automotive. In any event, it looked very cool and very modern. Also announced was an expanded agreement with EV maker Polestar , which will launch the 360L platform in the Polestar 3 (and some other models) in 2024.
The new “360L” experience brings the best of streaming with the backup of satellite — but only for some cars.
As for your current car … don’t hold your breath. A SiriusXM spokesperson told us that existing legacy systems “will not be impacted by any of the changes announced today.” So that’s that; and it isn’t particularly surprising. Though you will of course continue to get the new content offerings, as every time SiriusXM updates its lineup the new channels will be available on legacy head units without any software changes.
And in non-car news, select Hilton hotel properties in 2024 will allow you to control SiriusXM entertainment in its “Connected Room Experience” via the Hilton Honors app, and keep listening at home.
Audiobooks also will be coming to SiriusXM in early 2024 thanks to a partnership with the Amazon-owned Audible , and that included a vague reference to some SiriusXM content being highlighted on Audible as well. (That news comes on the heels of Spotify just announcing free audiobooks in the U.S.) An all-new app experience There also was a demo of the new SiriusXM app itself, which will be at the forefront of the reboot as it rolls out on Android , iOS, and Amazon starting on December 14. Again, it’s a welcome and natural improvement on what’s been available for some time. The new app will allow for better personalization and curation, a revamped playback experience for each kind of content (think different for music, talk and sports), enhanced search, better podcast listening, and an interactive onboarding akin to what you’d find in traditional streaming music apps.
And it’ll of course sync over to your listening experience in your car, at least once it’s updated. We’ll have to see what comes of the experience for Android Auto or CarPlay as well — presumably that’ll more closely follow the new look of the mobile app.
Even more content Howard Stern at the SiriusXM event in New York City.
Screenshot SiriusXM also announced the launch of three new music channels. Alt2K is what it sounds like — 2000s alternative rock. Flex2K does the same for hip-hop, and The Flow hits R&B from the 2000s and 2010s. And that’s on top of new channels from Shaggy, Clarkson, Mayer, Dolly Parton, Smokey Robinson, and podcast company Audiochuck (of Crime Junkie Podcast fame).
And as part of the rebrand, the SiriusXM dog mascot inherited from the old Sirius brand now has a name — Stella.
“We’re thrilled to introduce the world to the new SiriusXM brand, which brings to life the best of what we have to offer and welcomes in a new generation of listeners while staying true to our roots,” Suzi Watford, SVP, Chief Growth Officer at SiriusXM, said in a press release. “Our new brand platform, Closer, showcases the unique nature of our offering, giving true fans a space to go deeper into what they love.” Look for a lot of the new stuff on December 14, and more to come in 2024.
Editors' Recommendations SiriusXM now has an app for Vizio TVs The best radio apps for Android and iOS Get free Howard Stern, plus 300 more SiriusXM channels, until May 15 Netflix expands its horizons with a SiriusXM comedy channel … and a magazine? All U.S. 2020 Toyotas will have a trial subscription to SiriusXM satellite radio Cars Entertainment Mobile Tech News Audio / Video SiriusXM and Pandora are now one. The two companies had been working on a merger since news of the acquisition plan broke in September. Now that deal has been finalized, it gives the combined entity more than 100 million subscribers in North America. According to a press release, the acquisition -- which cost $3.5 billion in stock -- gives SiriusXM "close to 40 million self-paying subscribers, and 75 million trialers and ad-based listeners in the U.S." With the acquisition complete, SiriusXM is looking at several ways to combine the two platforms, while exploring opportunities to cross-promote subscriptions to the two audiences. Initially, the company intends on offering SiriusXM promotions with the Pandora app, beginning this month. Select Pandora listeners will be offered a $5 a month SiriusXM music or news/talk package; while SiriusXM subscribers will receive an extended 14-day trial to Pandora Premium, according to Inside Radio.
Audio / Video In the spirit of the holiday shopping season, SVS Sound is offering some incredible deals -- and by incredible, we mean record-breaking for the brand. SVS Sound has actually never participated in Black Friday festivities before, and they may never do it again. So, this may be your only chance to save this big. You name it, it's discounted. There are speakers, subwoofers, sound systems, and more discounted. Take the Web With so many Black Friday deals already under way, it can be tough to keep on top of everything. Walmart has dozens of different awesome deals so we've narrowed things down to the best Walmart Black Friday deals currently available. There's a little bit of everything here with discounts on TVs, headphones, laptops, coffee makers, and much more. The retailer is also having a massive Black Friday Lego sale. Whatever you're considering buying, keep reading while we take you through some great options.
Other retailers have started early too, so check out Amazon Black Friday deals and Best Buy Black Friday deals.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
