Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Cars Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Best automotive deals for Amazon Prime Day By Adam Kaslikowski Close Christmas in July has arrived again with Prime Day , and we’re here to be your Santa Claus for all things car tech. We scoured through all the best deals for this non-bank holiday to find you the very best swag to keep your ride on the road, to keep your butt comfy, and to keep you safe while behind the wheel.
Vavofo 1500a Portable Jump Starter Roav Viva USB Car Charger Vantrue T2 Dash Cam Anker Soundsync Bluetooth Receiver Craftsman Mechanics Tool Kit This year, Prime Day has been especially kind to petrolheads with some of the deepest discounts we’ve seen on some of our favorite gear as well as new contenders. Without further ado (is ado ever really needed?), here are our top five Prime Day 2019 automotive deals: Vavofo 1500a Portable Jump Starter Image used with permission by copyright holder Getting stranded sucks. Even having a suddenly dead car in your driveway is no picnic and a serious day-ruiner. But we live in 2019 and the days of begging a neighbor or sibling for a jump-off their car is over. You can continue your Netflix-hermit existence in peace and get your ride working on your own with a portable jump starter. The Vavofo 1500a is one of our favorites with its build quality, variety of features, and starting power. This bad boy will start up to an 8.0L gasoline engine, or a 6.5L diesel engine, so it’s capable of taking care of you unless you own the most exotic V12 or commercial truck. On Monday from Noon to 6pm PST, you can grab this portable charger for 50% off, a deal we’ve never seen on the Vavofo before.
Buy Now Roav Viva USB Car Charger Image used with permission by copyright holder The Alexa voice-assistant is a great technology, but it’s only for the home. Or is it? Anker has brought Alexa to your fine automobile with their Roav Viva model, so your road trips can get a lot more A.I. assistance. Make calls, ask for music, control your smart home, order food, or get directions all through asking Ms.
Alexa while on your way home.
The Roav is on sale for 34% off Monday until 1:40 PST , so jump on this quickly if you’ve always wanted that A.I. goodness in your daily driver.
Buy Now Vantrue T2 Dash Cam Image used with permission by copyright holder The roads are crazy out there, so you’ve got to protect yourself. I’m not talking about packing heat, I’m speaking of protecting yourself through the law with a dash cam. We’ve all seen enough crazy Russian dash cam footage to know it’s handy to have a witness on your side to the shenangans that happen on the open road. One of our favorites (and one we have extensive personal experience with) is the Vantrue T2 dash cam.
The Vantrue T2 monitors your car for 24 hours – yes even when you are not driving – by using microwaves to sense anything going on in front of the camera and start recording. On top of this parked car protection, the T2 also has night vision, ODBII integration, a supercapacitor instead of a battery (to better withstand the extreme temperatures of car interiors) and an 18-month warranty. This Prime Day the VanTrue T2 is 30% off from Monday at 8pm PST to Tuesday 8pm PST, so you officially have no excuse for not protecting your ride.
Buy Now Anker Soundsync Bluetooth Receiver Image used with permission by copyright holder Music is the soul of any road trip, this is a fact. And people keeping their cars longer and longer (as has been the trend over the last decade), odds are that your car might not have Bluetooth capability, leaving you in the musical dark ages of radio or an aux cable stretched from your phone to your dash. You can finally banish this horrible existence by grabbing the Anker Soundsync Bluetooth Receiver while it is 32% off on Monday from 5:35PM PST till 11:35PM . It may not be that fancy or flashy, but this small gadget is the cheapest way to upgrade your driving experience.
Buy Now Craftsman Mechanics Tool Kit Image used with permission by copyright holder Man, woman, child, or dog, you’ve got to know how to do repairs on your car – even if the most rudimentary of tasks like changing a battery or tightening up some rattling parts. If you’re a novice at doing your own wrenching, a good place to start your tool set is with a bundle that covers most of your bases. Almost every toolbox starts with screwdrivers and sockets, and this Craftsman 102-piece set has those and much more to get you on your way to changing your own oil (or the whole transmission if you’re feeling ambitious). It also includes a hammer, a measuring tape, an adjustable wrench, and Allen wrenches. Only serious jobs will require a tool kit more expanded than this, and at 20% off on Tuesday from 6:30AM till 6:30PM PST now is the time to jump into the greasy finger life.
Buy Now Editors' Recommendations Prime Day is a great time to buy a car jump starter or battery charger The best October Prime Day electric scooter deals happening now Best electric car charger deals: $100 off home charging stations Weekend deal: Save $50 on this popular 4K dash cam at Best Buy Best Buy’s deal of the day is $120 off a 25ft electric car charger Deals Amazon Amazon Prime Day Deals Prime Day 2022 was in July, but Amazon graced us with another mega sales event, the Prime Early Access Sale -- aka Prime Day October 2022. So, Prime Day deals are here, and it’s a great time to buy some of those gadgets you’ve been thinking about buying but didn’t want to spend the extra cash for. Prime Day Amazon Echo deals represent some of the best discounts available, as Amazon tends to use this opportunity to gather new Alexa users and offload excess inventory. You can opt to get Alexa in your car for just $15 by purchasing an Echo Auto. The Amazon Echo Auto Prime Day deal.
Deals Purchasing a car is a huge investment, so you shouldn't hold back on buying accessories for your vehicle, especially when it comes to security. If your budget's tight, you should look forward to this year's Prime Day deals with the Prime Day 2021 date set on June 21 and June 22, for discounts on car security devices, like car alarms, GPS trackers, and dash cams. Take advantage of the discounts in next week's Prime Day dash cam deals, before it's too late and you find yourself in a situation when a dash cam would have helped immensely.
What Prime Day dash cam deals to expect Dash cams record what's happening in front of you while you drive. Some models also record what's going on behind your vehicle, and some models even take videos of the inside of your car. This year's Prime Day dash cam sales will offer discounts on different models of dash cams with varying features, and it's up to you to choose the device to purchase according to your needs and budget.
What Prime Day dash cam deals we saw last year Last year's Prime Day dash cam deals featured some of the devices on Digital Trends' list of best dash cams, ranging from basic models to the versions that are packed with advanced features. Whether you drive to the office daily, work for a ridesharing company, or just take the car out during grocery runs, there was an offer for you.
Should you buy a new dash cam on Prime Day? These days, equipping a dash cam on your car is becoming a requirement. The videos taken by these security devices may prove your innocence during road accidents, or help track down the culprits that caused such incidents. For your peace of mind and the safety of your family, you should take advantage of Prime Day dash cam sales.
The Best Dash Cam Deals happening now You'll enjoy massive savings if you take advantage of Prime Day dash cam deals. If you can't wait for Prime Day, here are the best dash cam deals that are available right now, so you can improve your car's security right away.
Cars Electric bikes and scooters play a quickly-increasing variety of roles. Whether used for commuting, beach cruising, trail riding, or just tooling around the neighborhood, ebikes and escooters take many shapes and forms at prices that range from a few hundred dollars to nearly $10,000. Walmart slashed prices on two Hyper E-Ride ebikes and three Razor electric scooters for its Labor Day sale.
Good deals on ebikes during this holiday sales event indicate a growing interest in electric-powered bicycles for sport and utility. Whether you are looking for an ebike or escooter for yourself or a family member, these five deals can help you save up to $401.
Hyper E-Ride Electric Bike 700C Wheels --- $401 off Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
