Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Cars Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Best electric car charger deals: $100 off home charging stations By Andrew Morrisey Close Electric vehicles are becoming more and more commonplace, with the best electric cars making us rethink the way we get around. They won’t get far without an EV charger, however, and these can be a good way to find some savings, as even the best car chargers will often see a discount. That’s certainly the case right now, as there are a lot of EV chargers available at a discount. So whether you’ve just gotten a new electric vehicle or you’re considering something new for the garage, these are the best electric car charger deals available right now.
Shockflo EV charger — $300, was $320 Grizzl-E EV charger — $350, was $400 Juicebox 32-amp EV charger — $529, was $579 ChargePoint EV charger — $530, was $599 Juicebox 40-amp EV charger — $549, was $599 Schumacher Electric EV charger — $550, was $650 Juicebox 48-amp EV charger — $589, was $639 How to choose an electric car charger Shockflo EV charger — $300, was $320 Shockflo This EV charger by Shockflo is a Level 2 EV charger, which offers six times faster charging than a standard charger. It delivers 24 miles with just one hour of charging, and it can act as a mobile charger you can throw in the trunk or be mounted to a wall. It has an LCD display with useful information like charging rate, voltage, and charging time, as well as LED indicator lights that lets you know charging progress and errors.
Grizzl-E EV charger — $350, was $400 Grizzl-E With this Grizzl-E EV charger you’ll be getting powerful and heavy-duty charging capabilities, as it comes with a 24-foot premium cable. The charger itself is a Level 2 charger, which offers faster charge times than standard chargers. It’s also made to be portable, so you can throw it in the trunk and know you’ll have the ability to charge up any time you need to.
Juicebox 32-amp EV charger — $529, was $579 Juicebox This Juicebox EV charger comes in with 32-amps and fast Level 2 charging times. It has wifi connectivity that allows you to connect to the JuiceNet mobile app and web portal. This will allow you to be notified when you car is fulled charged, set up a daily charging routine, or simply ask JuiceNet to remind you to plug in when your life is busy. It also offers voice controls with Amazon Alexa and Google Home.
ChargePoint EV charger — $530, was $599 ChargePoint With Level 2 charge times and a 240-volt NEMA 6-50 plug, this ChargePoint EV charger is capable of getting your electric vehicle charged nine times faster than a standard wall outlet. It’s smart home and wifi-enabled, which allows you to set a convenient charging schedule with the ChargePoint app, or control it with your voice using Alexa devices. It installs easily and is universally compatible with different car brands.
Juicebox 40-amp EV charger — $549, was $599 Juicebox Coming in at 40-amps. This Level 2 EV charger by Juicebox can charger your vehicle up to seven times faster than standard chargers. It has all of the smart features seen on other Juicebox EV chargers, which include JuiceNet app compatibility, voice controls, and notification when your vehicle is all charged up and ready to go. This charger is both indoor and outdoor rated, so you can just as easily set it up somewhere outdoors as you can in the garage.
Schumacher Electric EV charger — $550, was $650 Schumacher Electric Schumacher Electric delivers with this EV charger, with can charge up to eight times faster than a standard charger and adds range quickly. You can get anywhere between 15 and 48 miles of range per hour of charging, as it features industry-leading power with 240 volts and a 50-amp current. This EV charger is both Bluetooth and wifi compatible, and it connects easily to the SchuPower app, which allows you to schedule charging, start and stop charging in real time, and monitor charging in real time.
Juicebox 48-amp EV charger — $589, was $639 Juicebox This is one of Juicebox’s most powerful EV chargers. It comes in at 48-amps and offers up to nine times faster charging than standard EV chargers. Like all of Juicebox’s chargers it’s universally compatible, ensuring it works with all EVs on the market today and in the future. It connects easily to the JuiceNet app, which allows for modern conveniences such as notifications and easily-schedule charging sessions.
How to choose an electric car charger There’s a lot to consider when shopping for an electric car charger. If you use your electric vehicle as your main mode of transportation, you’ll probably want to find yourself a charger that can get it charged back up in the fastest amount of time possible. Level 2 chargers are good in this regard, as they offer much faster charge times than standard EV chargers.
Something else to consider is how much modern smarts you want in your EV charger. The more affordable EV chargers offer great charging features, but there are a lot of EV chargers out there that come with wifi connectivity. This allows them to connect to many of the best EV charging station apps.
 With connectivity like this you can control your charger with voice commands and even monitor its status while it’s charging. You can also set your app up for notifications when your vehicle is charged up, among other things.
But if you have an electric vehicle or are considering purchasing one, the bottom line when it comes to EV chargers is that you need one. You’ll be able to find something that suits your budget pretty easily when it comes to purchasing an EV charger. Budget options are available, particularly with the deals mentioned above, and the more you have to spend, the faster and more convenient charger you’ll be able to land.
Editors' Recommendations Flash deal knocks $140 off this 48-amp home electric vehicle charger This 4K dash cam has GPS and Wi-Fi, and it’s $92 off for Prime Day The best October Prime Day dash cam deals you can shop now Deal: Save $120 on this 25ft, 32-Amp home electric vehicle charger Weekend deal: Save $50 on this popular 4K dash cam at Best Buy Deals Amazon Cheapest Prices Deals This content was produced in partnership with CarGurus.
Buying or selling a used car can be stressful stuff. After all, no car is cheap so it's important you buy the right one for your needs. When selling, you want to make sure that the process goes smoothly and that you find the right buyer quickly and without any bother. The best place to do so is by using CarGurus. The website makes it super simple to either buy or sell a used car with a streamlined process without any frustration or fuss. If you're in either situation, we're here to tell you why CarGurus is the best solution for you. You'll soon learn it's your one-stop solution for all your used car needs.
CarGurus: The ultimate way to buy Buying a car is exciting and stressful, often in equal measure. In many ways, the easier part is figuring out what car you want over where to buy it from. Fortunately, the latter is easily solved by CarGurus. Head over to their used car sales page and you can immediately find what you're looking for.
Cars When you brought home your shiny new electric vehicle, it came with a home charging cord. But that was likely a Level 1 charger, which can only add two or three miles of range per hour. Upgrading to a Level 2 home EV charger can triple that speed — or more — plus provide you with a multitude of options to help lower your electricity bill and extend your car battery life.
In other words, it's now easy to keep your car topped up without ever having to drive to a DC fast charging station unless you're on a road-trip -- ensuring that in day-to-day use, your car will stay fully charged.
Cars If you’re looking to add some modern software to your vehicle, one great way to do so is with a new digital media receiver. Pioneer is one of the premier name brands when it comes to car audio, and right now Best Buy has deals taking place on a variety of Pioneer digital receivers, each of which can upgrade your car’s dashboard and your own mobile digital experience. Discounts reach as high as $150, and sale prices are as low as $160. Several models also include free installation.
If your vehicle was made before features like Apple CarPlay or Android Auto became standard on a new vehicle, you may be thinking you need to purchase a brand new car to gain access to such software. All you really need to do, however, is upgrade your car stereo, and it will cost you a lot less than coming up with a down payment on a new car. With these discounts currently taking place at Best Buy, you can get a Pioneer digital media receiver for Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
