Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Cars Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best October Prime Day electric scooter deals happening now By John Alexander Close If you’re feeling the need to zoom around your neighborhood or city, but an electric bike is a bit much for you, then you should seriously hop on an electric scooter. And with these deals, which are part of the larger scene of October Prime Day deals going on right now, you can do so at an affordable price. We’re seeing scooters that should cost nearly a $1,000 drop way closer to the $500, for instance, and have found at least one great way to get you on a scooter for under $20.
Unagi E500 Electric Scooter (Rental)— $19, was $59 Segway F30 Electric Kick Scooter — $450, was $650 Segway Ninebot D40X Electric Kick Scooter — $525, was $850 NIU KQi3 Pro Foldable Electric Kick Scooter — $559, was $799 These are the best scooter deals you can shop at the moment: Unagi E500 Electric Scooter (Rental)— $19, was $59.
If you want an electric scooter that’s made for an urban environment, you probably want the Unagi E500. It’s got a slim profile and single-button folding mechanism, making it ideal for tucking under your desk at school work. Our Unagi E500 review also highlights this electric scooter’s fine-tuned controls, making both speeding up to the 17 mph max speed and braking a lot more comfortable than the typical fare. This deal covers the first month (and possibly up to 3 months, if you talk to Unagi, according to customer reports) of rental. Thereafter, the monthly lease will return to $59. Please note that you can cancel your lease at any time, insurance is covered, and repair servicing is free.
Segway F30 Electric Kick Scooter — $450, was $650 Segway You’d be entirely excused for associating the Segway brand with mall cops if their electronic scooters weren’t so good these days. The F30 Electric Kick Scooter tops out at a cool 15.5 mph and has an 18.6 mile range. We like this scooter for its ability to knock out 15-degree slopes, its three modes that include an eco-friendly riding mode, its ability to quickly fold in on itself, and the LED lighting that helps you see and others see you. Another nice thing about this scooter is how it takes the energy from braking and recycles it back into your scooter, making your power hold over for just that much longer. The Segway F30 also has Bluetooth connectivity to track riding stats and a quick-fold system to make storage and car transport a snap.
Segway Ninebot D40X Electric Kick Scooter — $525, was $850.
If you like the idea of scooting, but want to take a seat here and there, the Segway Ninebot D40X is the ride for you. It actually includes an additional seat attachment (tap the button below to see it) that you can put on the scooter when you want it. The Ninebot D40X has an operating range of 23.6 miles and a top speed of 18.6 mph. It can handle 20-degree slopes. We particularly appreciate its Bluetooth security lock so nobody can speed off with it when our heads are turned.
NIU KQi3 Pro Foldable Electric Kick Scooter — $559, was $799 Image used with permission by copyright holder The NIU KQi3 Pro is designed to make a lengthier commute on an electric scooter more reliable and more comfortable. It has a 20 mph top speed and can handle trips up to 31 miles. Its 350W rear wheel drive can handle 20 degree inclines. You’ll enjoy the 21.3-inch handlebar and wide deck. Other features of the NIU KQi3 Pro include power regenerative braking alongside app-based stat tracking and locking.
Editors' Recommendations Flash deal knocks $140 off this 48-amp home electric vehicle charger This 4K dash cam has GPS and Wi-Fi, and it’s $92 off for Prime Day You can lease an electric scooter for a month for only $19 Deal: Save $120 on this 25ft, 32-Amp home electric vehicle charger Weekend deal: Save $50 on this popular 4K dash cam at Best Buy Deals Amazon Cars If you're looking for one of the best ways to charge your electric vehicle, Best Buy has a great deal for you today. Right now, you can buy the Juicebox 25ft Electric Vehicle Charger for $549, saving you $120 off the regular price of $669. Convenient for anyone who wants to be able to charge from home more efficiently, this level 2 electric vehicle charger is sure to be a hit with you. You'll need to be fast though as, predictably, this deal of the day ends today. Let's take a quick look at why it's worth it.
Why you should buy the Juicebox 25ft Electric Vehicle Charger If you've been reading up on how to charge your electric car at home, you'll notice Juicebox gets a mention. Its Level 2 chargers are more powerful than Level 1 so you can refill your battery quicker. With the Juicebox 25ft Electric Vehicle Charger, you can expect up to six times faster charging than with the charger that came with your car. Universal compatibility means it works with all TVs on the market today and in the future, including Teslas thanks to a commonly used adapter.
Deals Prime Day 2022 was in July, but Amazon graced us with another mega sales event, the Prime Early Access Sale -- aka Prime Day October 2022. So, Prime Day deals are here, and it’s a great time to buy some of those gadgets you’ve been thinking about buying but didn’t want to spend the extra cash for. Prime Day Amazon Echo deals represent some of the best discounts available, as Amazon tends to use this opportunity to gather new Alexa users and offload excess inventory. You can opt to get Alexa in your car for just $15 by purchasing an Echo Auto. The Amazon Echo Auto Prime Day deal.
Deals Purchasing a car is a huge investment, so you shouldn't hold back on buying accessories for your vehicle, especially when it comes to security. If your budget's tight, you should look forward to this year's Prime Day deals with the Prime Day 2021 date set on June 21 and June 22, for discounts on car security devices, like car alarms, GPS trackers, and dash cams. Take advantage of the discounts in next week's Prime Day dash cam deals, before it's too late and you find yourself in a situation when a dash cam would have helped immensely.
What Prime Day dash cam deals to expect Dash cams record what's happening in front of you while you drive. Some models also record what's going on behind your vehicle, and some models even take videos of the inside of your car. This year's Prime Day dash cam sales will offer discounts on different models of dash cams with varying features, and it's up to you to choose the device to purchase according to your needs and budget.
What Prime Day dash cam deals we saw last year Last year's Prime Day dash cam deals featured some of the devices on Digital Trends' list of best dash cams, ranging from basic models to the versions that are packed with advanced features. Whether you drive to the office daily, work for a ridesharing company, or just take the car out during grocery runs, there was an offer for you.
Should you buy a new dash cam on Prime Day? These days, equipping a dash cam on your car is becoming a requirement. The videos taken by these security devices may prove your innocence during road accidents, or help track down the culprits that caused such incidents. For your peace of mind and the safety of your family, you should take advantage of Prime Day dash cam sales.
The Best Dash Cam Deals happening now You'll enjoy massive savings if you take advantage of Prime Day dash cam deals. If you can't wait for Prime Day, here are the best dash cam deals that are available right now, so you can improve your car's security right away.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
