Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Cars Deals Best Buy slashes prices on car electronics and GPS devices for Cyber Monday By Ronan Glon Close There is no need to visit a car dealership to benefit from many of the latest advances in automotive technology. Whether you’re missing a GPS or you’d like to warm up your engine in the winter without freezing, there are reliable aftermarket devices you can buy that will upgrade your ride without changing it. Best Buy has shockingly good deals on car electronics and GPS devices for Cyber Monday 2019 , and we’ve picked out five that sound unbeatable.
Compustar One-Button Remote Starter Escort Max 360 radar detector Garmin DriveSmart 65 GPS with Amazon Alexa Anker Bolt Charger with Google Assistant Thinkware Q800 Pro dash cam Compustar One-Button Remote Starter Image used with permission by copyright holder With winter right around the corner, the remote-start function is one you’ll be hooked on after trying it just once. Picture this scenario: you need to pick up dinner, but it’s below freezing outside, and your car has been sitting in your driveway all day. Getting in will feel like walking into a freezer, and your engine is going to take a few minutes to warm up.
Installing Compustar’s One-Button Remote Starter allows you to start your car at the push of a button so it warms up without you turning into an ice cube inside it. The One-Button Remote Starter is compatible with most cars made after 1998, and Best Buy’s $230 deal (a $70 discount) even includes free, seamless installation.
Cyber Monday predicted to be most popular shopping day of Thanksgiving weekend Escort Max 360 radar detector Image used with permission by copyright holder The Escort Max 360 is the radar detector we use to keep our driving record squeaky clean. We named it the best radar detector of 2019 after praising its accuracy and the features packed in it. It comes with dual antennas, so it picks up more signals, and we like the arrows that tell you which direction the threat is coming from.
Smartphone connectivity lets you network with other motorists using Escort devices in your area, so you’ll know what someone else picked up and where.
While there are other great radar detectors on the market, like the Valentine One V1, the Escort Max 360 stands tall above them. Its biggest downside is that it’s one of the priciest models on the market, but Best Buy’s Cyber Monday 2019 deal addresses that with a $150 discount that lowers its price to $400.
Garmin DriveSmart 65 GPS with Amazon Alexa Image used with permission by copyright holder Garmin’s DriveSmart 65 GPS is the proverbial two birds with one stone. It’s a bigger, more high-tech, and pricier alternative to the Drive 51, which we named the best GPS of 2019.
 It displays directions on a crystal-clear, 6.95-inch color touchscreen and provides turn-by-turn directions. We like that it takes traffic information, tolls, and even parking costs into account; it can tell you the parking garage around the corner is a lot cheaper than the one you’re about to drive into, for example.
It’s a great GPS, but it also doubles as a voice assistant thanks to Amazon Alexa compatibility.
 You can use voice commands to ask Alexa to play The Offspring from Pandora, Amazon Music, SiriusXM, iHeartRadio, and other apps. This two-in-one device is $100 off during Cyber Monday 2019, so its price falls to $200.
Anker Bolt Charger with Google Assistant Image used with permission by copyright holder Anker’s Bolt Charger is another multi-tasking device that punches above its weight class. It’s part phone charger, part voice assistant, so you’ll arrive at your destination with a full charge, and without getting lost. Its two USB ports feature PowerIQ technology, so it immediately recognizes whether it’s charging an iPhone , a Samsung Galaxy , a Kindle , an iPad , or any other device. It adjusts the charging accordingly, so you don’t need to worry about overcharging.
It doubles as a Google Assistant with machine-learning-based signal processing technology connected to the Google Cloud, so it essentially learns how to better understand your commands over time. The more you use it, the smarter it gets. It lets you stream music from a variety of different sources (including Pandora), make phone calls, and get navigation services. Anker normally charges $50 for its Bolt Charger, but Best Buy reduced it to $35 for Cyber Monday 2019.
Thinkware Q800 Pro dash cam Image used with permission by copyright holder Thinkware’s Q800 Pro dash cam has a 140-degree viewing angle, so it won’t miss something happening in the next lane, and it records footage in sharp 1440p resolution. Super Night Vision technology improves visibility in low light conditions, and Thinkware worked hard to make sure the Q800 stands up to the extreme temperatures that often destroy dash cams. It’s a smart device, too. It records footage on a 32GB memory card that’s included in the box, and Wi-Fi compatibility lets owners upload footage to a compatible Android- or Apple-powered smartphone using Thinkware’s purpose-designed app.
While all dash cams record footage, the Q800 goes above and beyond by warning you of red lights and speed cameras ahead of time, and by detecting potential collisions. It turns on automatically and immediately when its built-in G sensor senses that someone has bumped into your car, which helps protect you when your car is parked in public areas. Best Buy reduced its price from $300 to $230 f0r Cyber Monday 2019.
Editors' Recommendations Amazon slashes TomTom GPS prices ahead of Cyber Monday News Tech News Cars Lucid Motors has become the latest automaker to announce that it will adopt the North American Charging Standard (NACS) – also known as "the Tesla plug" – for its electric vehicles.
The move follows in the footsteps of more than a dozen other automakers that have also adopted Tesla’s charging connector, among them General Motors, Ford, Toyota, BMW, Jaguar Land Rover, Volvo, and Honda.
Cars General Motors-owned Cruise has halted production of its fully driverless vehicle -- the Origin -- just over a week after it suspended robotaxi operations nationwide following a number of troubling incidents involving its cars.
The news was announced by Cruise CEO Kyle Vogt during a meeting with staff on Monday, according to Forbes, which obtained audio of the gathering.
Cars The Ram brand is finally taking an electrified approach, and by resurrecting the Ramcharger name, no less. Alongside the new 2025 Ram 1500, the company has unveiled the new 2025 Ram 1500 Ramcharger, a new plug-in hybrid that Ram touts as offering "unlimited battery electric range." The new truck is one of a number of electrified trucks, the most well-known of which include the fully-electric Ford F-150 Lightning and the new Chevrolet Silverado EV. But instead of being fully electric, the 1500 Ramcharger is a plug-in hybrid, meaning that it has an electric motor and battery, and a gas tank and engine.
The plug-in approach It's perhaps a smart move. Electric trucks show a lot of promise -- but they start to falter a little when it comes to things like towing and hauling heavy loads. Keeping the 1500 Ramcharger a hybrid means that with no load or light ones, the truck can zip around town on electric power -- and when necessary, it can switch the engine on to tow or haul. It could well be the perfect combo for many truck owners who at least occasionally need that extra oomph, but who still could stand to save some cash -- and go a little easier on the environment - when simply driving around town.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
