Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Cars Products Chevrolet Bolt EV vs. Bolt EUV: Is bigger better? By Christian de Looper Close Chevrolet The Chevrolet Bolt EV has long offered a relatively high-end electric car experience at a reasonable price, while its brother, the Bolt EUV, has provided a great choice for those who want something a little bigger. Both cars are among the cheapest in their segments, while still delivering solid range and an enticing mix of features.
Design Interior and tech Performance Range and charging Pricing and availability Overall winner: Chevrolet Bolt EV But which of the two cars is actually better? The Bolt EV and Bolt EUV are similar in many ways, but there are also some key differences that may make one more appealing than the other depending upon the prospective buyer. We put the two head-to-head to find out if there was a real winner. It’s important to note that while we’re comparing the current-generation models of the Bolt EV and Bolt EUV, which are the 2023 models, both are likely headed for a refresh soon.
Design The Bolt EV and Bolt EUV aren’t necessarily the most stylish cars on the road, but they certainly look better than they used to. The Bolt EV is a relatively small car. It’s a hatchback, with a bulbous nose and slim, slanted headlights at the front.
Stephen Edelstein / Digital Trends The Bolt EUV isn’t much different than the Bolt EV in terms of style — it’s still not a great-looking car, and it offers the same design sensibilities as the Bolt EV.
 I do find, however, that the overall look does seem a little better-suited to the larger size of the Bolt EUV, thanks to the Bolt EUV’s slightly more rounded rear, and the fact that it doesn’t make the nose stand out quite as much.
Rivian R1S vs. Kia EV9: Is the more expensive electric SUV really better? 2025 Chevrolet Bolt: rumored price, release date, design, and more Lithium-ion vs. NiMH: EV batteries explained and compared Neither one of these cars is super stylish, but the Bolt EUV looks slightly better than the smaller Bolt EV.
Winner: Chevrolet Bolt EUV Interior and tech The cars offer a pretty similar exterior — band the interior is very similar too, at least in terms of style. Both the Bolt EV and the Bolt EUV offer five seats with cloth upholstery and manually adjustable front seats as standard. You can also get things like heated seats and a heated steering wheel, along with higher-quality leather-trimmed upholstery.
There is a difference in interior space between the two cars, but it’s not as drastic as you might think — and almost none of it converts to much more actual storage space. On the Bolt EV, you’ll get 93.3 cubic feet of passenger space and 16.6 cubic feet of cargo space — while on the Bolt EUV, you’ll get 97 cubic feet of passenger space and a slightly smaller 16 cubic feet of storage space behind the rear seats.
Digital Trends You don’t get much storage space regardless of the car that you opt for.
The tech is pretty similar, too. You’ll get a 12.2-inch display that offers both CarPlay and Android Auto — despite the fact General Motors plans on phasing out CarPlay and Android Auto in the future. Through the infotainment displays, you’ll access things like backup cameras and other driver-assistance tech.
The Bolt EV and EUV are very similar on the inside, but the small amount of extra passenger space gets the Bolt EUV the win here.
Winner: Chevrolet Bolt EUV Performance The performance of the Bolt EV and Bolt EUV is pretty similar too. Both the Bolt EV and Bolt EUV offer a single 200-horsepower motor that delivers power to the front wheels. Neither of the cars comes in all-wheel drive models. On the Bolt EV, you’ll be able to get to 60 miles per hour in 6.5 seconds, while the Bolt EUV takes 7.0 seconds to get there, due to its heavier weight.
Chevrolet Generally, the two cars perform very similarly — and you won’t get much choice in terms of performance here. But because of the lighter weight, the Bolt EV is that extra bit quicker.
Winner: Chevrolet Bolt EV Range and charging The Chevrolet Bolt EV and Bolt EUV both come with a 65-kilowatt-hour battery pack, however, because of the slight differences in weight, this translates to a slightly different range. On the Bolt EV, you’ll get a range of an estimated 259 miles, while on the Bolt EUV, you’ll get 247 miles. It’s not a huge difference — but it is a difference, and if you care about getting the longest range, you will probably want to go for the lighter vehicle.
Chevrolet The charging speed between the two cars is the same, and you should get around 100 miles in around 30 minutes regardless of the model.
The differences are minor, but technically, the Bolt EV offers a better range.
Winner: Chevrolet Bolt EV Pricing and availability Both the Bolt EV and the Bolt EUV are available right now, and you can get them from your local Chevrolet dealer. When you do, however, you’ll pay a little less for the Bolt EV — which makes sense considering its slightly smaller size. The Bolt EV starts at $26,500, while the larger Bolt EUV starts at $27,800. It’s only a little more than $1,000 more than the Bolt EV, which isn’t bad. But the Bolt EV still is cheaper.
Winner: Chevrolet Bolt EV Overall winner: Chevrolet Bolt EV It’s hard to really award one car the win here. These two cars are so similar in almost every way — and the truth is, you can’t really go wrong. The Bolt EUV is bigger, which may automatically make it a better choice for some, but keep in mind that you may gain less space than you expect. It’s also heavier, and that translates to a slightly slower performance and a lower range. These are important factors for modern EVs.
But again, the differences are small. If you’re interested in a Bolt and could use a little extra size, it’s worth going for the Bolt EUV instead of the EV. But if you simply want a solid EV at a decent price, the Bolt EV is an excellent option.
Editors' Recommendations Hyundai Ioniq 5 vs Kia EV6: battle of the sisters Affordable is not enough. Here’s what Chevy’s new Bolt needs to nail With EV Live, GM lets you chat up EV experts away from obnoxious dealers Kia EV6 vs Tesla Model 3: Which EV is right for your needs? Tesla Model Y vs. Kia EV6: which is better? Versus Virtual Reality Cars The BMW i4 and Tesla Model 3 are two of the hottest electric cars on the market today. Both vehicles offer a range of features designed to make driving easy and efficient, as well as attractive styling. But each has its advantages and disadvantages, and there is much that sets them apart in terms of performance, technology, convenience, and cost.
Deciding between the two? That's why we've put together this guide. Here are the differences and similarities between the Tesla Model 3 and BMW i4, and why you might want one over the other.
Design Cars For the past year, the Kia EV6 has been making headline after headline, thanks to its stylish design, competitive price, spacious cabin, and superfast charging. That's been the case to the point that Kia's other EV efforts have been perhaps a little ... buried. But the company is far from stepping back from its EV efforts. It's developing new products to build out the EV line like the upcoming EV9. And it's transitioning its current lineup to at least offer an EV option -- which is exactly where the 2023 Kia Niro EV comes in.
The Niro EV is in a bit of a weird spot, thanks in large part to the EV6 itself. They're both crossover EVs that occupy a similar spot in terms of pricing, and much of the same technology in terms of infotainment and driver-assist. And because of the fact that they're both Kia EV crossovers, you might assume that it's worth saving a few grand on the Niro EV over the EV6.
Cars The 2024 Chevrolet Equinox EV isn’t the General Motors brand’s first electric model, but it might be the most consequential. Chevy has plenty of EV experience, but with the Equinox EV, which is scheduled to go on sale in fall 2023, it’s prioritizing mass-market appeal.
The third electric vehicle unveiled by Chevy this year, following the Silverado EV and Blazer EV, the Equinox EV aims for greater affordability with a targeted starting price of around $30,000. Its compact crossover SUV form factor is also more suited to American tastes than the current Chevy Bolt EV and Bolt EUV.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
