Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Cars Products Hyundai Ioniq 5 vs Kia EV6: battle of the sisters By Christian de Looper Close While Tesla may still make the most popular electric cars, the likes of Kia and Hyundai have also been firing on all cylinders, and their respective options, the EV6 and the Ioniq 5, have a lot going for them.
Design Interior and tech Performance Range and charging Pricing and availability Overall winner: Kia EV6 But the two cars are very similar. In fact, they’re built on the same platform, with Kia and Hyundai actually being sister companies under the Hyundai Motor Group. So which one is better? We put the Kia EV6 and Hyundai Ioniq 5 head-to-head to find out.
Design The EV6 and Ioniq 5 may be sister electric crossovers, but they actually take a pretty different approach to design.
Joel Patel / Digital Trends The Hyundai Ioniq 5, for starters, plays on nostalgia. It makes use of Hyundai’s Pixel Light design ethos, which gives it a distinct ’80s feel — and it’s a pretty cool look. The Ioniq 5 is a hatchback, with angular lines across the body, and it comes in a few different colors.
Kia EV5: rumored pricing, design, range, features, and more Tesla Model Y vs. Hyundai Ioniq 5: Which crossover reigns supreme? Rivian R1S vs. Kia EV9: Is the more expensive electric SUV really better? The Kia EV6 , on the other hand, is a little more sporty-looking. It has a large light bar across the back, with sloped headlights on the front and an angled roof. It looks a little more unique than the Ioniq 5 — however the Ioniq 5 is still quite distinct.
Roberto Baldwin / Digital Trends Both of these cars look great — however it really does come down to personal taste.
Winner: Tie Interior and tech There are lots of similarities between the interior designs of the cars too.
The Ioniq 5 has two 12.3-inch displays at the front — one for infotainment and the other serving as a digital instrument cluster. Lighter materials are used throughout, including for the seat materials. There are no physical climate controls, but there are capacitive buttons — so you won’t have to go digging through menus on a screen to find the climate controls.
The EV6 is quite modern too. It also has two 12.3-inch displays at the front, however unlike the Ioniq 5, the EV6 actually has physical knobs for the climate controls, which is handy for those who prefer a more tactile feel.
Stephen Edelstein / Digital Trends Both cars support CarPlay and Android Auto, however they’re not available through a wireless connection — you’ll have to plug in a cable to use CarPlay or Android Auto in both of these cars.
These cars have very similar tech in them — so this one’s a tie too.
Winner: Tie Performance The Kia EV6 and the Hyundai Ioniq 5 both offer a number of different performance options.
The Ioniq 5 is available in either a single- or dual-motor configuration, with up to 601 horsepower and 545 lb-ft of torque in the Ioniq 5 N model — however the lower-end models won’t get quite that oomph. It’s also important to note that the Ioniq 5 N isn’t available just yet — it’ll be launched in 2024. The Kia EV6, on the other hand, offers up to 576 horsepower in the EV6 GT model, which is available now in single or dual motor configurations.
Christian de Looper / Digital Trends Of course, most users won’t quite get that level of performance. In the base model of the Ioniq 5, called the Ioniq 5 SE Standard Range, you’ll get 168 horsepower — while the base model of the Kia EV6, called the EV6 Light, offers 167 horsepower.
These cars are very similar in overall performance. Their base configurations are almost identical, however, considering the fact that the Ioniq 5 N isn’t available yet, the EV6 does perform a little better on average.
Winner: Kia EV6 Range and charging Because the EV6 and the Ioniq 5 are built on the same platform, they have a similar range and charging capacity. The range of the Ioniq 5 is between 220 miles (on the SE Standard Range) and 303 (on the rear-wheel-drive variants of the SE, SEL, and Limited trims). The Kia EV6 offers between 232 and 310 miles of range, which is a small improvement over the Ioniq 5.
Joel Patel / Digital Trends They can charge at the same rate, though. Both cars support 350-kilowatt charging, which will get you a full battery in under 20 minutes. They’re the fastest-charging electric cars out there right now, which is quite impressive.
It’s a small difference, but the Kia EV6 does win considering its slightly higher range.
Winner: Kia EV6 Pricing and availability Both the Kia EV6 and the Ioniq 5 are now available for purchase, except for the aforementioned Ioniq 5 N.
The Ioniq 5 starts at $41,450 for the SE Standard Range model, and ranges up to $52,600 for the Limited model — excluding options. The Kia EV6 starts at $42,600 for the EV6 Light and ranges up to $61,600 for the Kia EV6 GT — again, before additional options.
It’s important to note that while the EV6 GT is far more expensive than the Ioniq 5, the Ioniq 5 N will fill that upper price slot when it’s released to the public.
Still, considering the fact that the base Ioniq 5 is over $1,000 cheaper than the base EV6, it gets the win here.
Winner: Hyundai Ioniq 5 Overall winner: Kia EV6 Don’t let the title of this section fool you. Technically, the Kia EV6 wins this comparison, for its slightly higher range and slightly better performance.
But I would argue that you shouldn’t base your decision on that, considering how minor the differences are. Instead, if you’re deciding between the two cars, you can take this opportunity to actually buy a car based on how much you like its design. Do you prefer the sloped lines of the EV6? Buy it. Do you like the pixel lights of the Ioniq 5? Go with it instead. Really, you can’t go wrong with either of these cars.
Editors' Recommendations The Hyundai Ioniq 5 N makes one of the coolest EVs ready for the track Kia EV4: design, rumored pricing, release date, and more Tesla Model 3 vs. Hyundai Ioniq 6: Which electric sedan is best? Move aside, Tesla. The Hyundai Ioniq 6 is the best electric sedan for the masses I’m glad the Hyundai Ioniq 6 isn’t just a smaller Ioniq 5 Hyundai Versus Cars While some automakers are just beginning to get into electric cars, Hyundai's EVs have already taken several evolutionary steps. From the Ioniq Electric to the Kona Electric to the Ioniq 5, the South Korean brand's EVs have steadily become more sophisticated in tech and design. And Hyundai isn't stopping.
The 2023 Hyundai Ioniq 6 is a follow-up to the Ioniq 5, wrapping the earlier model's hardware in very different styling. With the Ioniq 5 and most other EVs from mainstream brands are marketed as crossover SUVs, this sedan doesn't have much direct competition. Hyundai set out to compete with the Tesla Model 3 and Polestar 2, which is reflected in its comparable pricing — between $42,715 for the base version and $57,425 for the most expensive model. But constantly fluctuating Tesla prices and build configurations mean that may not be the case for long.
Cars Over the past few years, a lot has happened in the EV space. While only a few short years ago, the Tesla Model 3 was considered the go-to for those who wanted a premium EV “on a budget,” since then we’ve seen a number of high-quality competitors, like the Kia EV6.
To be clear, neither the Tesla Model 3 nor the Kia EV6 are cheap cars. But we’re still somewhat in the early adopted phase of electric cars, and while we will get cheaper and cheaper electric cars over time, for now, you’ll need to spend the cash if you want anything more premium than a Chevrolet Bolt EV.
Cars The Tesla Model Y is one of the most popular EVs on the market, thanks to its generous size, support for Tesla’s excellent charging infrastructure, and great interior tech. But while other carmakers have traditionally played catchup with Tesla, these days there are plenty of alternatives to the Model Y — like the Kia EV6.
The EV6 isn’t as immediately recognizable as the Model Y, but it still sports a sleek design and solid range. Like the Model Y, it’s also available in a few different variants, so you can find the right model for your needs.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
