Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Cars Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Best Buy’s deal of the day is $120 off a 25ft electric car charger By Jennifer Allen Close.
If you’re looking for one of the best ways to charge your electric vehicle, Best Buy has a great deal for you today. Right now, you can buy the Juicebox 25ft Electric Vehicle Charger for $549, saving you $120 off the regular price of $669. Convenient for anyone who wants to be able to charge from home more efficiently, this level 2 electric vehicle charger is sure to be a hit with you. You’ll need to be fast though as, predictably, this deal of the day ends today. Let’s take a quick look at why it’s worth it.
Why you should buy the Juicebox 25ft Electric Vehicle Charger If you’ve been reading up on how to charge your electric car at home , you’ll notice Juicebox gets a mention. Its Level 2 chargers are more powerful than Level 1 so you can refill your battery quicker. With the Juicebox 25ft Electric Vehicle Charger, you can expect up to six times faster charging than with the charger that came with your car. Universal compatibility means it works with all TVs on the market today and in the future, including Teslas thanks to a commonly used adapter.
Better still, the Juicebox 25ft Electric Vehicle Charger has a bunch of great features for always being in control. It has Wi-Fi connectivity so you can easily monitor and schedule charging via the JuiceNet app and web portal. Dynamic LED lights display the connectivity levels along with charging behavior. Through the system, you can schedule your charging times for when rates are lower so you save money on your charging. At all times, you’ll receive notifications when your car is fully charged or you can get JuiceNet to remind you to plug in when you’re forgetful due to an extra busy day. It’s even possible to use voice controls to monitor, manage and control the charger, thanks to Amazon Alexa and Google Home support.
The system is easy to use and install with a quick-release mounting bracket and built-in cable management. With plug-in installation when a 240V outlet is present, you’ll only need to use a professional electrician if you do not already have a NEMA 14-50 outlet at the site. If you opt to participate in the JuicePoints program, you can even get paid for charging your electric car. Team it up with the best EV charging apps and you’ll always be ready to go in your beloved electric vehicle.
Normally priced at $669, the Juicebox 25ft Electric Vehicle Charger is down to $549 for Best Buy’s deal of the day. The $120 saving won’t last for long with the deal ending when the day does. If it’s what you need in your life, hit the buy button now.
Editors' Recommendations Flash deal knocks $140 off this 48-amp home electric vehicle charger The best October Prime Day electric scooter deals happening now You can lease an electric scooter for a month for only $19 Deal: Save $120 on this 25ft, 32-Amp home electric vehicle charger Weekend deal: Save $50 on this popular 4K dash cam at Best Buy Deals Deals This content was produced in partnership with CarGurus.
Buying or selling a used car can be stressful stuff. After all, no car is cheap so it's important you buy the right one for your needs. When selling, you want to make sure that the process goes smoothly and that you find the right buyer quickly and without any bother. The best place to do so is by using CarGurus. The website makes it super simple to either buy or sell a used car with a streamlined process without any frustration or fuss. If you're in either situation, we're here to tell you why CarGurus is the best solution for you. You'll soon learn it's your one-stop solution for all your used car needs.
CarGurus: The ultimate way to buy Buying a car is exciting and stressful, often in equal measure. In many ways, the easier part is figuring out what car you want over where to buy it from. Fortunately, the latter is easily solved by CarGurus. Head over to their used car sales page and you can immediately find what you're looking for.
Cars If you’re looking to add some modern software to your vehicle, one great way to do so is with a new digital media receiver. Pioneer is one of the premier name brands when it comes to car audio, and right now Best Buy has deals taking place on a variety of Pioneer digital receivers, each of which can upgrade your car’s dashboard and your own mobile digital experience. Discounts reach as high as $150, and sale prices are as low as $160. Several models also include free installation.
If your vehicle was made before features like Apple CarPlay or Android Auto became standard on a new vehicle, you may be thinking you need to purchase a brand new car to gain access to such software. All you really need to do, however, is upgrade your car stereo, and it will cost you a lot less than coming up with a down payment on a new car. With these discounts currently taking place at Best Buy, you can get a Pioneer digital media receiver for Cars Kicking your gasoline addiction is easier than ever in 2023, because electric cars are becoming increasingly common. They're not cheap, dinky golf carts, either. Whether you're looking for a high-performance sedan, a luxury car, or a humble crossover, there's a good chance you can find an electric car that suits your lifestyle. The Tesla Model 3 is the best electric car available because its technology is outstanding, it's stylish, and it's somewhat affordable, but there are other great options.
At a glance Product Category Rating Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
