Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Cars Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Weekend deal: Save $50 on this popular 4K dash cam at Best Buy By Albert Bassili Close Best Buy Whether it’s a minor fender bender or a more significant car accident, having a dash cam can be a lifesaver, especially if you’re dealing with insurance. Of course, there are a lot of dash cams to pick from with various levels of quality and features. Luckily, one of the better dash cams is on sale right now, the Nextbase 4k Dash Cam, and while it usually goes for $400, you can grab it from Best Buy for just $350. While that may not seem like much, $350 for a 4k-capable dash cam is impressive.
Why you should buy the Nextbase 622GW 4K Dash Cam The Nexbase 622GW is packed with some impressive features, such as the 4k resolution, which films at 30fps, although it can film at 60fps at 2k and, interestingly, 120fps at 1080p, although we doubt you’ll very much run the last mode regularly. More importantly, it comes with some advanced image stabilization to help deal with the vibrations and bumps from your car, plus it comes with some next-level night vision and image polarization to help with sunny conditions that might otherwise cause glare. Even better, it has internal processing capable of helping with misty conditions, making this a great camera for all-weather driving, which is impressive for such a small package.
One thing you must remember is that Nextbase needs a high-end SD card to function correctly, and the company insists on their own U3 class Nextbase microSD, and sadly, it’s not included in this package, so you’ll have to buy that separately. Luckily, something that doesn’t rely on the SD card is the very accurate GPS, which might not even be needed given that it also includes what3words , which is perfect for getting first responders to you as fast as possible in case of the worst. Besides that, it has built-in Alexa , which is great, as well as Wi-Fi and Bluetooth to connect to your phone at high speeds.
Overall, the Nextbase 622GW is an excellent dash cam, and while it’s certainly expensive, you get what you pay for. Luckily, you can get $50 from Best Buy and grab it for just $350 instead of $400, which is one of the best dash cam deals available this weekend.
Editors' Recommendations This 4K dash cam has GPS and Wi-Fi, and it’s $92 off for Prime Day Best electric car charger deals: $100 off home charging stations Deal: Save $120 on this 25ft, 32-Amp home electric vehicle charger Save up to 26% on Pioneer vehicle stereo receivers at Best Buy Add Apple CarPlay or Android Auto to your car with these head unit deals Deals Cellular Carriers Cars Take a quick peek at the latest roundup showing off the best Best Buy deals on offer and you probably won't find anything quite like this next one. If you have an older vehicle or a base model that lacks a remote start option, you'd be forgiven for thinking there was no hope of getting it -- at least not without upgrading to a new car. The reality is you can enable it by installing a third-party solution, and Best Buy is offering a deal on a remote start system right now plus installation.
The Compustar one-way remote start system includes everything you need to set it all up, and get this, installation is included. Normally $350, you can save $50 right now, and get it for $300. Just make sure installation is available at your local store. Grab that deal below or keep reading to learn more about Compustar's remote start system.
Cars If you're looking for one of the best ways to charge your electric vehicle, Best Buy has a great deal for you today. Right now, you can buy the Juicebox 25ft Electric Vehicle Charger for $549, saving you $120 off the regular price of $669. Convenient for anyone who wants to be able to charge from home more efficiently, this level 2 electric vehicle charger is sure to be a hit with you. You'll need to be fast though as, predictably, this deal of the day ends today. Let's take a quick look at why it's worth it.
Why you should buy the Juicebox 25ft Electric Vehicle Charger If you've been reading up on how to charge your electric car at home, you'll notice Juicebox gets a mention. Its Level 2 chargers are more powerful than Level 1 so you can refill your battery quicker. With the Juicebox 25ft Electric Vehicle Charger, you can expect up to six times faster charging than with the charger that came with your car. Universal compatibility means it works with all TVs on the market today and in the future, including Teslas thanks to a commonly used adapter.
Deals Purchasing a car is a huge investment, so you shouldn't hold back on buying accessories for your vehicle, especially when it comes to security. If your budget's tight, you should look forward to this year's Prime Day deals with the Prime Day 2021 date set on June 21 and June 22, for discounts on car security devices, like car alarms, GPS trackers, and dash cams. Take advantage of the discounts in next week's Prime Day dash cam deals, before it's too late and you find yourself in a situation when a dash cam would have helped immensely.
What Prime Day dash cam deals to expect Dash cams record what's happening in front of you while you drive. Some models also record what's going on behind your vehicle, and some models even take videos of the inside of your car. This year's Prime Day dash cam sales will offer discounts on different models of dash cams with varying features, and it's up to you to choose the device to purchase according to your needs and budget.
What Prime Day dash cam deals we saw last year Last year's Prime Day dash cam deals featured some of the devices on Digital Trends' list of best dash cams, ranging from basic models to the versions that are packed with advanced features. Whether you drive to the office daily, work for a ridesharing company, or just take the car out during grocery runs, there was an offer for you.
Should you buy a new dash cam on Prime Day? These days, equipping a dash cam on your car is becoming a requirement. The videos taken by these security devices may prove your innocence during road accidents, or help track down the culprits that caused such incidents. For your peace of mind and the safety of your family, you should take advantage of Prime Day dash cam sales.
The Best Dash Cam Deals happening now You'll enjoy massive savings if you take advantage of Prime Day dash cam deals. If you can't wait for Prime Day, here are the best dash cam deals that are available right now, so you can improve your car's security right away.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
