Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Cars Deals The best Amazon Prime Day deals on dashboard cameras for your car By Ronan Glon Close Investing in a dashboard camera is one of the smartest ways to modernize your car, while also staying safe on the open road — and possibly capturing something hilarious on camera. While a good dash cam can be pricey, Prime Day has great deals for your car, like feature-rich dash cam models for motorists who don’t want to spend a fortune to film their surroundings.
Aukey dash cam Aukey dual dash cam KDLINKS R100 Rexing V1 Not all dash cams are created equal, so Amazon has one to suit nearly every need and budget in its Prime Day deals. Dash cams are becoming increasingly popular, and they’re seldom sold at a discount. If cost has made you hesitant to pull the trigger in the past, don’t miss the top Prime Day 2019 dash cam deals, which are listed below.
Aukey dash cam Image used with permission by copyright holder Aukey’s Dash Cam is a compact unit that’s about the same size as a GoPro camera. Don’t let its size fool you, though — it packs serious hardware. Its Sony Exmore sensor records 1080p footage, and it helps the device see relatively well at night. The cam has a useful 170-degree field of view and it begins recording automatically if it detects an impact. Alternatively, you can leave it on all the time thanks to a loop function that automatically records over old footage.
The Aukey cam is powered by a supercapacitor that withstands extreme temperatures better than a conventional battery. Alternatively, you can plug it into your car’s power outlet. Either way, it’s designed to be mounted either on a car’s dashboard with a double-sided 3M pad, or directly on the windshield thanks to a suction cup that’s included with every purchase.
Aukey’s dash cam can be yours for $60 instead of $75 during Prime Day.
Aukey dual dash cam Image used with permission by copyright holder The name says it all: Aukey’s Duel Dash Cam packs many of the same features and hardware found in the original Dash Cam, but it adds a second lens that lets motorists film what’s going on behind them. Both lenses use a Sony Exmor sensor for clear, 1080p recordings. The front camera has a 170-degree angle, which is about six lanes wide, while the rear camera has a 152-degree field of view. Buyers can add location and speed data to the footage recorded by the dual dash cam by purchasing a GPS antenna, which is sold separately.
Aukey’s Dual DAsh Cam is discounted to $111 till 10 p.m. PT on Tuesday, July 16, instead of $130 outside of Prime Day.
KDLINKS R100 Image used with permission by copyright holder The KDLINKS R100 stands out from comparable dash cams because it mounts directly to your car’s rear-view mirror. It won’t block your view like bigger, bulkier cams that attach to your windshield, and it won’t leave a nasty mark on your dashboard. It’s equipped with two cameras — the first records footage in front of the car in 1296p, and the second records what’s going on inside the car in 1080p. It’s compatible with a 128 GB memory card. These features make it ideal for motorists who drive for a ridesharing service like Lyft or Uber.
The KDLINKS R100 is 70% off from 5:30 p.m. to 11:30 p.m. PT on Monday, July 15, only.
Rexing V1 Image used with permission by copyright holder The Rexing V1 is one of the more low-key dash cams on the market. That means it won’t obstruct your vision when you’re driving, and it won’t draw unnecessary attention to your car when you’re parked. Though it’s small, it can record 1080p video at a 170-degree angle. The V1 kit includes a second camera that motorists can attach to their car’s rear window, and the 24-hour monitoring function helps the cam double as a security guard for your car.
You don’t need to leave it on all the time. The V1 immediately begins recording if its gravity sensor detects the car has moved. The footage recorded after the sensor sounds an alarm is saved, so it won’t be overwritten even if the SD card is full.
The Rexing V1 is 55% off from 3:30 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. PT on Tuesday, July 16, only.
Editors' Recommendations Prime Day is a great time to buy a car jump starter or battery charger The best October Prime Day electric scooter deals happening now Best electric car charger deals: $100 off home charging stations Weekend deal: Save $50 on this popular 4K dash cam at Best Buy The absolute best place to buy or sell a car Deals Amazon Amazon Prime Day Cars Mobile tech and software have expanded to the car over the last few years, with many newer vehicles offering Apple CarPlay and Android Auto built right into the media display. But if you have an older vehicle and want the perks of modern technology right in your dashboard, it’s much cheaper to buy a new in-dash media receiver instead of a new car. This is especially true today, as we’ve tracked down some of the best deals on digital media receivers available for your vehicle.
JVC 6.8-inch digital media receiver — $280, was $300 This 6.8-inch digital media receiver is a good one if you’re looking to upgrade your vehicle’s media capabilities on a budget. You get quite a bit for the price point, as it’s capable of reaching 50 watts of peak power over four channels. The large touchscreen is easy to navigate and allows you to manage music, settings and functions. This digital media receiver also has a built-in equalizer, so you’ll be able to listen to whatever you want in any way you want. You can also tap into your mobile device’s music library with this digital media receiver, as it allows for Bluetooth connectivity and even has a USB port that allows you to connect to your device.
Cars Take a quick peek at the latest roundup showing off the best Best Buy deals on offer and you probably won't find anything quite like this next one. If you have an older vehicle or a base model that lacks a remote start option, you'd be forgiven for thinking there was no hope of getting it -- at least not without upgrading to a new car. The reality is you can enable it by installing a third-party solution, and Best Buy is offering a deal on a remote start system right now plus installation.
The Compustar one-way remote start system includes everything you need to set it all up, and get this, installation is included. Normally $350, you can save $50 right now, and get it for $300. Just make sure installation is available at your local store. Grab that deal below or keep reading to learn more about Compustar's remote start system.
Cars If you're looking for one of the best ways to charge your electric vehicle, Best Buy has a great deal for you today. Right now, you can buy the Juicebox 25ft Electric Vehicle Charger for $549, saving you $120 off the regular price of $669. Convenient for anyone who wants to be able to charge from home more efficiently, this level 2 electric vehicle charger is sure to be a hit with you. You'll need to be fast though as, predictably, this deal of the day ends today. Let's take a quick look at why it's worth it.
Why you should buy the Juicebox 25ft Electric Vehicle Charger If you've been reading up on how to charge your electric car at home, you'll notice Juicebox gets a mention. Its Level 2 chargers are more powerful than Level 1 so you can refill your battery quicker. With the Juicebox 25ft Electric Vehicle Charger, you can expect up to six times faster charging than with the charger that came with your car. Universal compatibility means it works with all TVs on the market today and in the future, including Teslas thanks to a commonly used adapter.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
