Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Cars Deals Walmart slashes prices on electric bikes and Razor escooters for Labor Day By Bruce Brown Close Electric bikes and scooters play a quickly-increasing variety of roles. Whether used for commuting, beach cruising, trail riding, or just tooling around the neighborhood, ebikes and escooters take many shapes and forms at prices that range from a few hundred dollars to nearly $10,000. Walmart slashed prices on two Hyper E-Ride ebikes and three Razor electric scooters for its Labor Day sale.
Hyper E-Ride Electric Bike 700C Wheels — $401 off Hyper E-ride Electric Bike, 26-inch Wheels — $400 off Razor E200 Electric Scooter — $31 off Razor E300 24-Volt Electric-Powered Scooter — $50 off Razor 36-Volt EcoSmart Metro Electric Scooter — $170 off Good deals on ebikes during this holiday sales event indicate a growing interest in electric-powered bicycles for sport and utility. Whether you are looking for an ebike or escooter for yourself or a family member, these five deals can help you save up to $401.
Hyper E-Ride Electric Bike 700C Wheels — $401 off The Hyper E-Ride Electric Bike with 700C wheels rides up to 20 miles per hour with a 36-volt 7.8 Ah battery that drives a 250-watt hub driven electric motor. This Class 1 ebike with six speeds has a Shimano grip shifter and rear derailleur with power for pedal assistance only. You can’t drive this bike by throttle only, like a motorcycle or moped. Battery life is rated for up to one hour or about 20 miles, so don’t count on taking long trips. Charging time is approximately four hours. The Hyper E-Ride is best for light cruising around town or in your neighborhood where the rear-mounted rack is convenient for carrying packages.
Normally priced at $999, the Hyper E-Ride Electric Bike 700C Wheels is discounted to $598 for this sale. If you want an assisted power bicycle for casual rides, take this opportunity to take advantage of this discounted price.
Hyper E-ride Electric Bike, 26-inch Wheels — $400 off The Hyper E-ride Electric Bike on 26-inch wheels has the same mechanics, both manual and electric, as the 700c-wheeled version above. Most design elements for this Hyper E-Ride model are unique, however, including the high middle bar, slightly larger tires, more aggressive handlebar position, and more neatly tucked brake and shift cables. This model does not have fenders or a rear rack which makes it less utilitarian than the other Hyper E-Ride, but that doesn’t mean it’s right for heavy off-road use. The bicycle-style V-brakes front and rear will need careful checking and adjusting, especially if you travel close to the 20 mph top speed.
Usually $998, the Hyper E-ride Electric Bike, 26″ Wheels is just $998 during the Labor Day sale. If you’re looking for a light-duty, ebike for casual rides, this model has an appealing low price.
Razor E200 Electric Scooter — $31 off Previous Next 1 2 Image used with permission by copyright holder Image used with permission by copyright holder The Razor E200 Electric Scooter is intended for riders thirteen years and older and supports up to 154 pounds including the passenger and anything carried or worn. The E200’s rechargeable sealed lead-acid battery powers a 200-watt electric motor up to 12 mph with a single-speed chain drive. Razor rates battery life up to 40 minutes per charge. Additional features include a twist-grip throttle, hand-operated rear brake, air-filled 8-inch tires to soften the ride, and a retractable kickstand.
Ordinarily $230, the Razor E200 Electric Scooter is just $198 during this sale. If you want an escooter for sidewalk cruising, this is an excellent opportunity at a compelling price.
Razor E300 24-Volt Electric-Powered Scooter — $50 off Slightly larger then the Razor E200 above, the Razor E300 24-Volt Electric-Powered Scooter pairs the same batteries with a 250-watt chain-driven motor and has a 15 mph top speed. The tires are 9-inches to carry more weight as this model is rated for up to 220 pounds. Battery life is rated at 40 minutes maximum, but it’s the same battery used for the E200 so that time sounds optimistic for a heavier scooter that can go a bit faster.
Regularly priced $320, the E300 24-Volt Electric-Powered Scooter is just $270 during Walmart’s Labor Day sale. If you’re shopping for an escooter that teens and adults can ride for fun, the E300 is a good deal, especially at this discounted price.
Razor 36-Volt EcoSmart Metro Electric Scooter — $170 off Previous Next 1 2 Image used with permission by copyright holder Image used with permission by copyright holder The batteries on the Razor 36-Volt EcoSmart Metro Electric Scooter store 7Ah of power to drive the 500-watt electric motor. Top speed is 18 mph, load capacity is up to 220 pounds, and the battery is rated for up to 40 minutes of continuous use. There’s a removable luggage rack and you can replace the standard bicycle seat with another style of your choosing. The initial battery charge takes 12 hours. Recharging a fully-depleted battery may take as long as the initial charge, so if you plan to use the EcoSmart Metro Electric Scooter for commuting, keep charging time in mind. This escooter is best for casual neighborhood riding.
Instead of the usual $599 price, Walmart cut the Razor 36-Volt EcoSmart Metro Electric Scooter to just $429 during this sale. If you want a comfortable escooter to pick up the mail and ride around a village or neighborhood, the Razor EcoSmart is an appealing choice.
Editors' Recommendations Walmart extends its Prime Day deals on Schwinn, Razor and Hyper E-Ride ebikes Deals News e-Bikes Cars Lucid Motors has become the latest automaker to announce that it will adopt the North American Charging Standard (NACS) – also known as "the Tesla plug" – for its electric vehicles.
The move follows in the footsteps of more than a dozen other automakers that have also adopted Tesla’s charging connector, among them General Motors, Ford, Toyota, BMW, Jaguar Land Rover, Volvo, and Honda.
Cars General Motors-owned Cruise has halted production of its fully driverless vehicle -- the Origin -- just over a week after it suspended robotaxi operations nationwide following a number of troubling incidents involving its cars.
The news was announced by Cruise CEO Kyle Vogt during a meeting with staff on Monday, according to Forbes, which obtained audio of the gathering.
Cars The Ram brand is finally taking an electrified approach, and by resurrecting the Ramcharger name, no less. Alongside the new 2025 Ram 1500, the company has unveiled the new 2025 Ram 1500 Ramcharger, a new plug-in hybrid that Ram touts as offering "unlimited battery electric range." The new truck is one of a number of electrified trucks, the most well-known of which include the fully-electric Ford F-150 Lightning and the new Chevrolet Silverado EV. But instead of being fully electric, the 1500 Ramcharger is a plug-in hybrid, meaning that it has an electric motor and battery, and a gas tank and engine.
The plug-in approach It's perhaps a smart move. Electric trucks show a lot of promise -- but they start to falter a little when it comes to things like towing and hauling heavy loads. Keeping the 1500 Ramcharger a hybrid means that with no load or light ones, the truck can zip around town on electric power -- and when necessary, it can switch the engine on to tow or haul. It could well be the perfect combo for many truck owners who at least occasionally need that extra oomph, but who still could stand to save some cash -- and go a little easier on the environment - when simply driving around town.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
