Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Cars Deals Replace your windshield smoothly and effectively with Safelite By Jennifer Allen Close Windshield or auto glass damage on your vehicle can be one of the most frustrating issues you can have with your beloved car or truck.
 What you might not realize is your windshield repair or replacement may often be covered by insurance if you have comprehensive coverage. In many cases, you will only be responsible for paying a deductible. Also, many insurance companies will waive the deductible for a repair so you might have no “out of pocket” costs. Use a dedicated vehicle glass specialist company like Safelite and they can even file your insurance claim for you.
What is Safelite? Why should I use Safelite for a windshield replacement? What other services does Safelite provide? Why Safelite is a great choice What is Safelite? Image used with permission by copyright holder Safelite is America’s largest vehicle glass specialist. Its technicians service millions of customers every year, which is an impressive achievement for a company that started as a single store based in Wichita, Kansas in 1947. More than 97% of U.S. drivers across all 50 states can access Safelite’s services, and it’s easily the best way to replace your broken windshield or other vehicle glass thanks to that broad access.
Simply head to safelite.com to get your free quote or have Safelite work with your insurance company. With thousands of MobileGlassShops™ and repair facilities across the country, you can choose whatever’s most convenient for you.
Why should I use Safelite for a windshield replacement? Safelite is one of the best ways to Repair or Replace your windshield, providing excellent service every step of the way.
When it comes to windshield repairs, the company’s facilities can often provide same-day windshield repairs. Depending on the size and type of damage, a windshield repair may be all you need and should always be the first option to consider.
Terms and conditions may also apply.
For further peace of mind, Safelite is proud to offer the industry’s only nationwide lifetime warranty on glass replacements and a nationwide guarantee on repairs and recalibrations. The company services virtually all vehicle makes and models.
The company uses only the best materials and experienced technicians so you get quality glass repairs and replacements every time. Its technicians are required to complete extensive classroom and hands-on training in Safelite’s SafeTech® certification program and they pride themselves on taking great care of every vehicle they service.
Your vehicle is in safe hands here.
What other services does Safelite provide? Besides windshield repairs, Safelite also offers side window and rear glass replacement services, power window repairs, advanced safety systems recalibration for those vehicles with front-facing cameras, top-quality windshield wipers and glass cleaner, plus Safelite AutoGlass® Rain Defense™ which is a technician-applied water-repellant treatment.
To sweeten the deal even further, Safelite takes its environmental footprint seriously, working since 2012 to reduce its waste through its glass recycling program. Recycled windshield glass can be used to create fiberglass insulation, carpet backing, floor adhesives, as well as optical lens grinding powder, and Safelite takes full advantage of those recycling opportunities.
Safelite also gives back to the community, courtesy of the Safelite AutoGlass Foundation, which actively supports national and local causes focusing on building stronger communities and helping children and their families. Since 2005, the charity has worked with numerous foundations, including Ronald McDonald House Charities, A Kid Again, Boys & Girls Clubs of America, and many more.
Why Safelite is a great choice Able to perform both windshield repair and auto glass replacement services, Safelite is a fantastic option for all your auto glass repairs work. If you’re looking for a repair or replacement to your vehicle’s windshield or need to replace your car window glass, visit the Safelite website and schedule an appointment online today.
 Safelite will treat you right every step of the way.
We strive to help our readers find the best deals on quality products and services, and we choose what we cover carefully and independently. The prices, details, and availability of the products and deals in this post may be subject to change at anytime. Be sure to check that they are still in effect before making a purchase.
Digital Trends may earn commission on products purchased through our links, which supports the work we do for our readers.
Editors' Recommendations Best dash cam deals: Protect your ride from just $32 Add Apple CarPlay or Android Auto to your car with these head unit deals Make your car smarter with an Echo Auto — just $15 today The best Amazon Prime Day deals on dashboard cameras for your car Cars Lucid Motors has become the latest automaker to announce that it will adopt the North American Charging Standard (NACS) – also known as "the Tesla plug" – for its electric vehicles.
The move follows in the footsteps of more than a dozen other automakers that have also adopted Tesla’s charging connector, among them General Motors, Ford, Toyota, BMW, Jaguar Land Rover, Volvo, and Honda.
Cars General Motors-owned Cruise has halted production of its fully driverless vehicle -- the Origin -- just over a week after it suspended robotaxi operations nationwide following a number of troubling incidents involving its cars.
The news was announced by Cruise CEO Kyle Vogt during a meeting with staff on Monday, according to Forbes, which obtained audio of the gathering.
Cars The Ram brand is finally taking an electrified approach, and by resurrecting the Ramcharger name, no less. Alongside the new 2025 Ram 1500, the company has unveiled the new 2025 Ram 1500 Ramcharger, a new plug-in hybrid that Ram touts as offering "unlimited battery electric range." The new truck is one of a number of electrified trucks, the most well-known of which include the fully-electric Ford F-150 Lightning and the new Chevrolet Silverado EV. But instead of being fully electric, the 1500 Ramcharger is a plug-in hybrid, meaning that it has an electric motor and battery, and a gas tank and engine.
The plug-in approach It's perhaps a smart move. Electric trucks show a lot of promise -- but they start to falter a little when it comes to things like towing and hauling heavy loads. Keeping the 1500 Ramcharger a hybrid means that with no load or light ones, the truck can zip around town on electric power -- and when necessary, it can switch the engine on to tow or haul. It could well be the perfect combo for many truck owners who at least occasionally need that extra oomph, but who still could stand to save some cash -- and go a little easier on the environment - when simply driving around town.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
