Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Cars Reviews Kia EV6 GT first-drive review: putting a little more fun into EVs By Christian de Looper Close Christian de Looper / Digital Trends Kia is turning things up a notch. The EV6 is consistently lauded as one of the best EVs out there right now in its price range, sitting alongside its sister car, the Hyundai Ioniq 5, and cars like the Tesla Model 3. As an electric car, even the base model EV6 has some serious kick to it — but last year, the Kia EV6 GT-Line brought things to the next level. Now, Kia is making the car even more impressive, once again, with the Kia EV6 GT.
A (slightly) tweaked design “This is a Kia?” Maybe not the EV6 for you The EV6 GT is designed to sit at the top of the EV6 lineup, with the best performance and the most impressive features. And it makes sense why Kia would be in this position. Plenty of carmakers are still unveiling their first-generation electric cars, but Kia has been working at them for years, through cars like the Soul and the Niro EV. That’s not to mention the first few generations of EV6.
And, indeed, the EV6 GT impresses, from the first time you see it.
Kia EV4: design, rumored pricing, release date, and more Hyundai Ioniq 6 first drive review: welcome to the future 2023 Kia Sportage Hybrid first drive review: Style and substance A (slightly) tweaked design The changes to the Kia EV6 GT start with the design, but don’t expect any major changes — this is still the EV6 that you know, just with a little more aggressive styling and accents.
Most of that more aggressive styling boils down to 21-inch wheels, slightly tweaked vents, and other small exterior details. You won’t miss the neon green brake calipers visible in those 21-inch wheels, though. These aren’t branded brakes, but they look like they should be.
Christian de Looper / Digital Trends Matching neon green accents await you on the inside, coupled with sport bucket seats to really make you feel like you’re in a race car.
I wish Kia went a little further with the aggressive styling on the GT. You have to look pretty hard to notice any big differences between the EV6 models. Of course, some of that is purposeful — Kia describes the EV6 GT-Line as the car for those who like the GT styling but don’t care as much about the performance improvements, while the GT is for those who want both. Still, if you like the overall design of the EV6, you’ll like the look of the EV6 GT.
“This is a Kia?” It’s hard to overstate the changes that Kia has made over the past few years, and the EV6 GT feels like a culmination of those. It’s out with the old and in with the new, and while that means that beloved cars like the Stinger might be on the chopping block, it also means we’re getting pretty sweet new rides like the EV6 GT.
So what does the EV6 GT offer that you don’t get on other models? There are a few differences that all come down to “going faster.” Christian de Looper / Digital Trends The EV6 GT delivers 576 horsepower, with the ability to accelerate from 0 to 60mph in 3.4 seconds. Kia is quick to point out that it has a faster 0 to 60 time than the 2021 Ferrari Roma and the 2020 Lamborghini Huracan Evo Spyder RWD. You might notice that neither of those is an EV, and EVs like the Tesla Model 3 Performance can beat the GT, at 3.1 seconds. It does still beat the Mustang Mach-E GT though, which gets to speed in 3.5 seconds. So this is not the fastest EV, but it’s still impressively fast.
That shouldn’t take away from the fact that driving the EV6 GT is an absolute blast. The car gets an all-new drive mode — GT — which turns on with a tap of a dedicated neon green GT button on the steering wheel. Engaging it unlocks full use of the 160kW front motor and 270kW rear motor, tunes the steering to be more responsive, and more.
There’s even a drift mode. Yes, I drifted an EV6, and yes, I was bad at it.
Maybe not the EV6 for you All of this is super cool, and actually pretty sweet value. If you’re looking for a high-performing EV that doesn’t cost Model S or EQS-type money, the EV6 GT is a killer option. It starts at $61,400, which is a lot to be sure, but cheaper than the Model Y Performance and the Mustang Mach-E GT.
But while you pay more for the EV6 GT, you also lose some things — notably, range. The EV6 GT gets an EPA-estimated range of 206 miles, which is quite a bit less than the 252 miles the GT-Line AWD achieves, and the 310 miles the RWD EV6 Wind and GT-Line achieve. In other words, while you will likely exceed estimates if you mostly use the lower-power Eco and Normal modes, you still won’t get as much range as you would get from other models with less powerful motors. I like driving fast, but not by sacrificing range, which has more of an impact on my day-to-day life — and I suspect most are the same. Thankfully, the EV6 GT gets the same 350kW charging speeds, which should allow it to charge in under 20 minutes.
Christian de Looper / Digital Trends Of course, the EV6 GT isn’t necessarily for those who care most about range, and Kia knows that. The company is only building the car in a limited production run of under 2,500 cars. While it says it would build more if it sees a lot of demand, it’s at least aware of the fact that this model is probably for a smaller crowd. It’s not pushing the EV6 GT as the EV that everyone should strive to get.
But while this particular EV6 isn’t for everyone, the EV6 GT does help cement the EV6 in general as a great option for a range of buyers. The EV6 and the Hyundai Ioniq 5 are, in my opinion, the best EVs on the market right now for most people.
If you do buy an EV6 GT with the understanding that you’ll get lower range, though, you won’t be disappointed. It’s easily one of the most fun EVs out there right now, and while competition is coming, right now many EVs could use a little more fun.
Editors' Recommendations Kia EV5: rumored pricing, design, range, features, and more Rivian R1S vs. Kia EV9: Is the more expensive electric SUV really better? 2023 Kia Niro EV first drive review: Practical doesn’t have to bore you to tears 2022 Audi e-tron GT first drive review: This slot car needs no track Kia reportedly put in charge of developing Apple’s first car Cars The next-generation Kia Soul EV electric car won't go on sale in the United States for the 2020 model year, as originally stated by Kia. The U.S. launch has been pushed back until the 2021 calendar year at the earliest, according to Green Car Reports, which cites a Kia spokesperson.
When the third-generation Kia Soul was unveiled in November 2018 at the Los Angeles Auto Show, both gasoline and all-electric versions were shown. But while the gasoline Soul is now on sale in the U.S., the Soul EV has been held up. The car, which is already on sale in Europe, was originally expected to hit U.S. showrooms in the spring of 2019. U.S. buyers will now have to wait roughly two years, although even the 2021 target date is subject to change, according to Green Car Reports. Limited production capacity is causing the delay.
Cars Kia Motors announced a new program with Amazon for electric vehicles (EVs) and plug-in hybrid electric vehicles (PHEVs). Customers who purchase a new Kia EV or PHEV can buy one of Kia's recommended Level 2 240-volt home charging stations on Amazon. Once they've selected a charger, customers can arrange installation in their homes by licensed electricians handpicked and certified by Amazon before they take delivery of their new cars.
Kia currently sells two electric-only models, the Soul EV and Niro EV, plus two plug-in hybrids, the Niro PHEV and Optima PHEV. Kia electric vehicles can charge their batteries by plugging into a standard 120-volt household outlet, also known as Level 1 charging. However, with a 2019 Soul EV, for example, it can take 33 hours for a full charge. With a Level 2 charger, however, a Soul EV recharges in 5.1 to 6 hours, according to the Amazon's ChargeMyKia page.
Cars With its boxy exterior and compact proportions, the Kia Soul was the first truly stylish vehicle from the Korean automaker, and is still being imitated by competitors. The Soul remains a distinctive design to this day, so Kia had a big challenge before it when it set out to launch a new version. The completely redesigned 2020 Kia Soul debuts at the 2018 Los Angeles Auto Show and goes on sale in the United States in 2019.
When it comes to exterior styling, this is one situation where designers didn't want to think outside the box. The 2020 Soul retains the previous two generations' crate-like proportions, but with some updates to keep the design fresh. The front end gets a more streamlined headlight design, which also makes the Soul look a bit like a sad robot. The 2020 Soul is also slightly longer than before, with a wider and lower tailgate meant to make loading and unloading cargo easier, according to Kia.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
