Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Cars Features Affordable is not enough. Here’s what Chevy’s new Bolt needs to nail By Christian de Looper Close Maven Turns out that the Chevrolet Bolt isn’t at its end. It makes sense. The Bolt certainly faced challenges, with various recalls and criticisms, but largely, it has proven itself as one of the best options for those who wanted a decent-range electric car at as low of a price as possible. That’s why, despite the recalls, it was somewhat of a shock when General Motors announced that it was ending the Bolt.
Design isn’t everything … but it’s something Range may be key Everything gets cheap eventually That was just a fake-out, though. Between then and now, the company announced that, in fact, the Bolt will live on in a new second generation.
But just being a cheap EV isn’t enough anymore. The budget EV market isn’t great , but it is better than when the Bolt was first introduced. Case in point? The new Volvo EX30 , which isn’t quite as inexpensive as the current-gen Bolt, but does prove that you can have a well-designed electric car for less than $40,000.
2024 Chevrolet Equinox EV aims for affordability with $30,000 base price Chevy will pay charging-station installation costs for 2022 Bolt EV buyers For Chevy’s Silverado, off-road racing will be the ultimate torture test So, what does the now seven-year-old Bolt have to do to truly compete for the next seven years? Well, the next seven years of electric cars will be nothing like the last seven years, so it turns out, it has to do quite a bit.
Design isn’t everything … but it’s something The Chevy Bolt has a lot going for it. It’s one of the cheapest electric cars that remains practical, with over 250 miles of range and some decent tech on the inside. But let’s be honest — it isn’t the prettiest car out there. Far from it.
Chevrolet Now, to be fair, it’s not horribly ugly. It’s a little ugly, but it certainly could be worse. Better-looking electric cars that fall in this price range, however, are coming.
The Volvo EX30 isn’t as cheap as the Bolt, but it does prove that great-looking, cheap electric cars are possible. It has that sleek Scandinavian style, with plenty of room on the inside. It’s perhaps better compared with the Bolt EUV — the larger version of the Bolt — but it’s still a whole lot better-looking than that car.
People care about design — or at least I do. I wouldn’t sacrifice range for design, but if I’m deciding between two similarly priced electric cars with a similar range, I’m picking the one with the sleeker design. Chevrolet has an opportunity to develop a truly good-looking electric car that costs less than the competition — and looks better too — with this second generation of the Bolt.
Range may be key “Range doesn’t really matter to 99% of people 99% of the time.” “No one will buy an electric car that they can’t take on a road trip.” I’ve heard both of these claims, multiple times, and frankly, I think both can be true. Most people don’t need a long-range electric car 99% of the time — but I’m not buying a $30,000-plus car that doesn’t serve my car needs 100% of the time. That means that the next-gen Bolt has to have a better range.
Chevrolet So what does “better” mean? In my mind, it means more than 300 miles. Currently the base model of the Bolt has a starting range of 259 miles, which is already not bad for a car in this price range. But if Chevrolet could put the base range at 300 miles or more, it could truly serve as the go-to choice, not only in its price range, but give or take another $5,000-or so.
It’s possible that Chevrolet could be on the way to a milestone like this. The next-generation Bolt will be built on General Motors’ Ultium platform, which is designed to be lightweight and have a more versatile battery system. We’ll have to see what this means for the range of the Bolt.
Oh, and along with range, the Bolt needs to charge faster.
 Seriously, fast-charging is a must-have for any future electric car.
Everything gets cheap eventually Electric cars are in a race to the bottom, and they’ll get there at some point. Eventually, electric cars will no longer command a premium over other cars, and the Bolt won’t be able to hide behind its price tag. To be fair, it’s entirely possible that Chevrolet will progressively lower the price of the car to keep it at the entry level — but even if that happens, more budget options will launch, and likely in mass quantities.
Will General Motors act aggressively enough to keep the Bolt in a position to pave the way for budget electric cars? Only time will tell, but if it can truly introduce a long-range, well-designed EV that beats the competition in price, I think the Bolt has a chance at staying relevant for years to come, even despite the coming onslaught of budget EVs.
Editors' Recommendations With EV Live, GM lets you chat up EV experts away from obnoxious dealers GM expands recall to all Chevy Bolt EVs due to fire risk 2022 Chevy Bolt EV and Bolt EUV: More electric cars to love 2021 Chevrolet Colorado gets a tougher exterior, but what’s underneath? 49,000 UAW workers are striking against GM. Here’s what you need to know Features Virtual Reality Cars The 2020 Chevrolet Corvette has finally been revealed, but there are still some mysteries surrounding Chevy's radically overhauled sports car. Chevy hasn't released official performance figures, but a poster on Corvette Forum managed to get a peek at an engineer's booklet of specs during the annual Corvettes at Carlisle show. The numbers indicate the 2020 Corvette will be as fast as it looks.
The information comes with an asterisk, though. The car's specs haven't been finalized yet. Another Corvette Forum poster noted that, during a presentation on the car, Corvette chief engineer Tadge Juechter said his team is still doing final testing and calibration. So the numbers you see here are subject to change.
Cars The Chevrolet Bolt EV was a major milestone for electric cars. It was the first electric car to achieve more than 200 miles of range with a starting price below $40,000 -- opening up a much wider swath of the market. But with rivals catching up, Chevy has upped the ante. The 2020 Chevrolet Bolt EV has an estimated range of 259 miles, up from the previous 238 miles. That puts the Bolt EV ahead of most competitors.
The 259-mile figure first appeared on the Environmental Protection Agency's fueleconomy.gov website, which lists the agency's electric range and fuel economy ratings, and was reported by Car and Driver before Chevy officially confirmed it. Power output is expected to remain the same, at 200 horsepower and 266 pound-feet of torque. Chevy previously said that will get the 2019 Bolt EV from 0 to 60 mph in 6.5 seconds.
Cars 2020 Corvette: Our Story Continues | ChevroletAfter years of rumors and speculation, the 2020 Chevrolet Corvette Stingray is finally here with a fresh mid-engine design. But the reveal isn't over. A video released by Chevy confirmed that convertible and racing versions of the new Corvette will debut this fall -- but that's all we know for sure about the two Corvette variants.
The short video starts with footage of what appears to be the CERV I -- a 1960 prototype that started Chevy on the road to a mid-engine Corvette. It then cuts to shots of a camouflaged version of the 2020 Corvette -- or C8, to fans -- with a big rear wing testing on a racetrack, followed by some static shots of the 2020 Corvette convertible. A caption reads "to be revealed Fall 2019." Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
