Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Cars Features 5 upcoming EVs I’m excited for, from luxury SUVs to budget champions By Christian de Looper Close Almost every major automaker has released an EV by now — or plans to soon — and makers like Ford and Kia already have a variety to choose from. But if you haven’t found one that’s right for you yet, hang tight. There are dozens of announced electric car models that have yet to come out, and it’s clear that the future of EVs is bright.
Volvo EX30 Volvo EX90 Hyundai Ioniq 7 Lotus Eletre Lucid Gravity From longer range to lower prices, the next batch of EVs gives us plenty to get excited about. Here are five upcoming EVs that we can’t wait to drive.
Volvo EX30 Image used with permission by copyright holder Price: $34,950 I’m glad the Hyundai Ioniq 6 isn’t just a smaller Ioniq 5 Release date: Summer 2024 Range: 200-275 miles U.S. federal tax credit eligibility: No In a vacuum, the Volvo EX30 probably isn’t as exciting as some of the others on this list. But there is something major that makes the car very exciting — the fact that it’ll be one of the cheapest electric cars you can buy. Considering the fact that the Chevrolet Bolt EV is about to be discontinued, the EX30 will fill a very important void.
Even if it wasn’t so cheap, the EX30 would be a cool car. The car boasts a pretty slick design and a nice-looking interior. It offers Volvo’s Android Automotive-based infotainment system, and has a range of up to 275 miles, depending on the model that you get. The top-trim models will also be Volvo’s fastest production cars to date, with the ability to reach 60 miles per hour in 3.5 seconds. Deliveries of the Volvo EX30 are set to begin in summer 2024, with a starting price of $34,950.
Volvo EX90 Volvo Price: $80,000 (estimated) Release date: Early 2024 Range: Up to 300 miles U.S. federal tax credit eligibility: No The EX30 isn’t Volvo’s only all-electric vehicle. The company is also releasing a three-row SUV with similar overall styling but a whole lot more room on the inside. There’s enough room for seven people in total, and an electric powertrain with 496 horsepower will come standard on the car.
Don’t expect the Volvo EX90 to be as inexpensive or close to the EX30 though. The EX90 is built to offer more advanced features, with a suite of sensors on the top of the car. These will enable next-generation autonomous features, like an improved lane-keeping assistant, adaptive cruise control, and more. Volvo says that more advanced features like Level 3 autonomy may come to the EX90 through a software update in 2025.
So what is that price tag? Well, we don’t know just yet, but we’re expecting it to be around $80,000.
Hyundai Ioniq 7 Hyundai / Hyundai Price: $50,000 ( estimated ) Release date: 2024 (expected) Range: 300 miles (estimated) U.S. federal tax credit eligibility: Unknown The Hyundai Ioniq 5 has been one of the biggest hits in the EV world so far, and the Ioniq 6 could follow it. But what comes after that? The Ioniq 7, of course. The Ioniq 7 is only a concept right now, but it’s set to be Hyundai’s take on an electric SUV. Like its previous electric cars, the Ioniq 7 will ride on the Hyundai e-GMP platform , but it’s set to offer a futuristic-looking front, and what Hyundai calls a “living room on wheels” on the inside.
Of course, how much of that carries over from the concept to the production car remains to be seen. But at a bare minimum, the Ioniq 7 will likely offer all the best things about the likes of the Ioniq 5 and Ioniq 6, but with more interior space. Hopefully, it’ll also have a long-lasting range and zippy performance.
Lotus Eletre Lotus / Lotus Price: $84,000+ (estimated) Release date: 2023 Range: Up to 315 miles (estimated) U.S. federal tax credit eligibility: No Lotus is known for its lightweight performance cars, but its EV aspirations apparently have it thinking bigger. The Lotus Eletre is an electric SUV that the company is planning on selling in the U.S. sometime in 2023. There’s almost no chance that the car will be lightweight, considering its size and the weight of electric battery packs, but hopefully, it’ll still get some of that performance car feel.
The Eletre is expected to sell for around $84,000, which puts it about in line with other electric SUVs — a diversion from Lotus’ previous, more expensive, more niche cars. Of course, you’ll be able to customize it up from there — but regardless of which model you get, you’ll be getting at least 603 horsepower and over 315 miles of range, if estimated figures are to be believed.
Lucid Gravity Lucid / Lucid Motors Price: $120,000 (estimated) Release date: Early 2024 (expected) Range: 400 miles+ (expected) U.S. federal tax credit eligibility: No Lucid is getting into the SUV game too. After the success of the super long-range and very luxurious Lucid Air , the company is following up with a car that will appeal to those who want Lucid’s tech in a larger car. The Lucid Gravity will likely offer a similar interior to the Air, too — which is good news.
The Lucid Air is currently the longes-range electric car out there, however, it’s unknown if the Gravity will match or beat it. At the very least, with the same battery and platform, the car won’t have the same aerodynamics — but it should still offer a decent range in the grand scheme of things. Regardless, when it is released, the Gravity is sure to be one of the better luxury electric SUVs out there.
Editors' Recommendations The Tesla Model Y is far from my favorite EV, but I’m pretty close to buying one I review EVs for a living. Here’s the one I’m waiting to buy Features Hyundai Volvo Cars Lucid Motors has become the latest automaker to announce that it will adopt the North American Charging Standard (NACS) – also known as "the Tesla plug" – for its electric vehicles.
The move follows in the footsteps of more than a dozen other automakers that have also adopted Tesla’s charging connector, among them General Motors, Ford, Toyota, BMW, Jaguar Land Rover, Volvo, and Honda.
Cars General Motors-owned Cruise has halted production of its fully driverless vehicle -- the Origin -- just over a week after it suspended robotaxi operations nationwide following a number of troubling incidents involving its cars.
The news was announced by Cruise CEO Kyle Vogt during a meeting with staff on Monday, according to Forbes, which obtained audio of the gathering.
Cars The Ram brand is finally taking an electrified approach, and by resurrecting the Ramcharger name, no less. Alongside the new 2025 Ram 1500, the company has unveiled the new 2025 Ram 1500 Ramcharger, a new plug-in hybrid that Ram touts as offering "unlimited battery electric range." The new truck is one of a number of electrified trucks, the most well-known of which include the fully-electric Ford F-150 Lightning and the new Chevrolet Silverado EV. But instead of being fully electric, the 1500 Ramcharger is a plug-in hybrid, meaning that it has an electric motor and battery, and a gas tank and engine.
The plug-in approach It's perhaps a smart move. Electric trucks show a lot of promise -- but they start to falter a little when it comes to things like towing and hauling heavy loads. Keeping the 1500 Ramcharger a hybrid means that with no load or light ones, the truck can zip around town on electric power -- and when necessary, it can switch the engine on to tow or haul. It could well be the perfect combo for many truck owners who at least occasionally need that extra oomph, but who still could stand to save some cash -- and go a little easier on the environment - when simply driving around town.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
