Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Cars Features The BMW i7 M70 is an electric limousine that does supercar speeds By Dave McQuilling Close Dave McQuilling / Digital Trends BMW’s flagship EV, the i7 , hit the road last year. While the luxury EV broke plenty of boundaries, both in terms of performance and comfort, many people were left wondering when it would inevitably get its “M” package. Well, those people got their wish in April, and we recently went hands-on with one to see just how much of a difference the motorsport package makes to what is BMW’s most luxurious vehicle.
The ‘M’ styling is a little toned-down The standard i7 is more than good enough Handling and boost are what sets The M70 xDrive apart On paper, it should be mind-blowing. The all-wheel-drive i7 M70 xDrive (to give it its full title) has two powerful motors driving its wheels. The motor at the back is the most powerful unit BMW has ever produced at 483 horsepower. Combined with the front motor, i7 M70 xDrive lays down a total of 650 horsepower, making it the most powerful battery electric vehicle (BEV) the German company currently has on the market. But cars aren’t driven on paper, so let’s see how that actually transfers to the road.
The ‘M’ styling is a little toned-down There are two types of people who pay up for an M package on a BMW. First, there are the actual motor sport enthusiasts who want to maximize the performance of their otherwise businesslike sedan. The upgrade gives them more of an opportunity to let the leash off and have fun with their vehicle. Then there are the people who pick the package so everyone knows they dropped an extra $20,000 or so on their luxury motor.
Dave McQuilling / Digital Trends People in the latter camp may be disappointed by the interior choices on several of the i7 M70s. They’re not as “in your face” as M packages have historically been. You get a unique display on the infotainment system, and if you look very closely at the inside of the steering wheel, the stitching is in M colors. The seat belts are stripe-free, and unless you really pay attention, you may struggle to differentiate it from a standard i7 in terms of looks.
2024 BMW i5 unveiled as the first electric 5 Series 2023 BMW iX M60 is electric, spacious, and surprisingly quick BMW’s electric i4 will make its debut in 2021 with 530 hp, 300 miles of range Externally, things are a little more noticeable. You’ll get the M badge on the front and back of the vehicle, plus a few unique trim elements, such as a unique splitter at the back. At the front, the kidney grille now has a glowing outline with the M-package, though stylistically, this may divide opinion somewhat.
The standard i7 is more than good enough Opting for an M package on a 7 Series was arguably always an odd choice. While performance is a factor with all BMWs, the 7 was always a luxury option. You’re supposed to be smoothly and comfortably gliding along the road in one, not throwing it into corners. With the i7, it makes even less sense.
Dave MCQuilling / Digital Trends The performance of the standard, non-M vehicles is already phenomenal. The i7 xDrive60, to give it its full title, has 536 horsepower and can rocket from 0 to 60 in as little as 4.5 seconds. Even the cheaper i7 eDrive 50 isn’t sluggish, rocking 449 horsepower and only adding 0.8 seconds to the all-wheel drive version’s 0-to-60 time. The lack of all-wheel drive on that version will probably be the most notable omission.
You’re unlikely to notice a huge difference in performance with most regular use, and that may leave you wondering where the extra money went. This contrasts with other “M” versions of vehicles, including the upcoming i5 M60 , which feel noticeably different on the road.
Handling and boost are what sets The M70 xDrive apart While you may not notice much of a difference between the M70 and standard i7 in daily use, there are a couple of areas where it manages to stand out. All-wheel steering is a big addition, and long, large vehicles like the i7 are ideal candidates for it. Although the rear-axle steering system only shifts the wheels around 2.5 degrees, it makes a pretty big difference in practice.
The i7 M70 has a turning circle of just 40.3 feet, which is a tenth-of-a-foot better than the traditionally sportier standard 5 Series. Add in the various sensors and other driver’s aids, and maneuvering the electric 7 series through tight parking garages and car-unfriendly city streets becomes far less difficult.
Dave McQuilling / Digital Trends Then there’s the M-Boost tab to the left of the steering wheel. This little fun switch allows you to unleash the full potential of the most powerful electric motor BMW has ever produced. You can only do so in short bursts, but it’s another feature that makes the luxury vehicle feel like a far sportier car than it has any right to be. At its best, the i7 M70 will go from 0 to 60 in just 3.5 seconds, which means you’re getting supercar speeds from a large, heavy, limousine.
With the standard i7, you may not want to spend much time in the driver’s seat. The massage seats, “cinema mode,” and top-tier suspension means you’re better off relaxing in the rear than you are sitting upfront. But the M package may just be that missing element the front seat needs to compete. With the M70, you still have everything that makes the regular i7 great, but there’s also a chance of some fun permeating through the professionalism — when the circumstances are right, anyway.
Editors' Recommendations Both sporty and posh, the i5 may be the electric BMW you’ve been waiting for The all-electric BMW i7 is a home theater on wheels Here’s why BMW’s go-fast M division hasn’t released an electric car yet Features Cars Lucid Motors has become the latest automaker to announce that it will adopt the North American Charging Standard (NACS) – also known as "the Tesla plug" – for its electric vehicles.
The move follows in the footsteps of more than a dozen other automakers that have also adopted Tesla’s charging connector, among them General Motors, Ford, Toyota, BMW, Jaguar Land Rover, Volvo, and Honda.
Cars General Motors-owned Cruise has halted production of its fully driverless vehicle -- the Origin -- just over a week after it suspended robotaxi operations nationwide following a number of troubling incidents involving its cars.
The news was announced by Cruise CEO Kyle Vogt during a meeting with staff on Monday, according to Forbes, which obtained audio of the gathering.
Cars The Ram brand is finally taking an electrified approach, and by resurrecting the Ramcharger name, no less. Alongside the new 2025 Ram 1500, the company has unveiled the new 2025 Ram 1500 Ramcharger, a new plug-in hybrid that Ram touts as offering "unlimited battery electric range." The new truck is one of a number of electrified trucks, the most well-known of which include the fully-electric Ford F-150 Lightning and the new Chevrolet Silverado EV. But instead of being fully electric, the 1500 Ramcharger is a plug-in hybrid, meaning that it has an electric motor and battery, and a gas tank and engine.
The plug-in approach It's perhaps a smart move. Electric trucks show a lot of promise -- but they start to falter a little when it comes to things like towing and hauling heavy loads. Keeping the 1500 Ramcharger a hybrid means that with no load or light ones, the truck can zip around town on electric power -- and when necessary, it can switch the engine on to tow or haul. It could well be the perfect combo for many truck owners who at least occasionally need that extra oomph, but who still could stand to save some cash -- and go a little easier on the environment - when simply driving around town.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
