Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Cars Features Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? 2025 Cadillac Escalade IQ: price, release date, design, specs By Christian de Looper Close Cadillac The Escalade is getting the electric treatment. Cadillac has finally taken the wraps off of the electric version of its big, flashy SUV — and, boy, does it deserve the Escalade marquee. The luxury SUV will end up being one of the most luxurious electric SUVs to date, and it’ll have a price tag to match.
Cadillac Escalade IQ design Cadillac Escalade IQ price Cadillac Escalade IQ release date Cadillac Escalade IQ colors and models Cadillac Escalade IQ charging speed and range Cadillac Escalade IQ performance Cadillac Escalade IQ tech features Cadillac Escalade IQ tax credit status Our Cadillac Escalade IQ wish list Curious about the Escalade IQ and what it’ll end up offering? Here’s everything we know about the Cadillac Escalade IQ so far.
Cadillac Escalade IQ design The design of the Escalade is iconic, and it’s getting a serious face-lift for the electric model. The new Escalade has a huge faux grille on the front, with vertical headlights along the the sides and an imposing Cadillac logo emblazoned in the middle.
Cadillac The EV version of the Escalade is actually bigger than the standard model — though it doesn’t necessarily look like it. The SUV measures in at 224.3 inches long, and 85.3 inches wide — and it has massive 24-inch wheels.
Everything is bigger in Cadillac’s electric Escalade IQ The gas-guzzling Cadillac Escalade is going all-electric with the IQ Cadillac is preparing its most expensive car to date, and it’s electric Toward the back, the SUV mixes things up a little with a more curved rear — unlike the current Escalade. Overall, the Escalade IQ looks sportier than the gas-guzzling model — and that’s a good thing.
Cadillac Escalade IQ price Like its gasoline-powered predecessor, the Escalade IQ will demand a hefty premium. That’s to be expected, though — it’s a luxury car and always has been.
So what about that price tag? The Escalade IQ will start at around $130,000, making it one of the most expensive electric SUVs to date. Prices will range up from there, and you can expect that there will be multiple models on offer.
Cadillac Escalade IQ release date Cadillac We don’t yet know exactly when the Cadillac Escalade IQ will go on sale, but we do know around when it’ll be available. The Escalade IQ will be released as part of 2025 model year, and will go into production in summer 2024 in Michigan. It’ll likely be available for purchase starting in the fourth quarter of 2024. And when it does, it may be hard to purchase — depending on the state of the supply chain at that point.
Cadillac Escalade IQ colors and models Cadillac has yet to announce the models of the Escalade IQ. It’s likely, however, that the base model won’t offer the 450-mile range that Cadillac is touting, nor the sub-5-second 0-to-60 acceleration speeds. Ultimately, you’ll probably have to pay for those. We’ll have to wait and see.
We do, however, have an idea of the colors that will be on offer. You can see them all for yourself at the Escalade IQ website , and there are quite a few of them. Most of them are different variations of white, gray, and black, however, there are a few blues in there, and some great-looking deep reds.
Cadillac Escalade IQ charging speed and range The Escalade IQ will be no slouch as an electric car. It’ll be built on the General Motors Ultium battery platform , and Cadillac says that it’ll offer a range of 450 miles, which is excellent. That puts the car ahead of most other electric cars out there right now — except for the Lucid Air — and it gives us high hopes for other Ultium-based EVs.
Cadillac The Escalade IQ will come with an NACS connector, and will be able to charge at a rate of 100 miles of range every 10 minutes.
Cadillac Escalade IQ performance The Escalade IQ is built for a luxury driving experience — so it won’t necessarily drive faster than the sportier and more nimble cars out there, but it certainly won’t be slow either. According to Cadillac, the Escalade IQ will be able to reach 60 miles per hour in 5econds, which is no small feat for such a big and heavy vehicle.
The IQ may be a little more nimble than you might expect, too. Cadillac says that it’ll offer rear-wheel steering as standard, helping reduce the turning circle while remaining more stable. Cadillac also says that it can move diagonally out of a parking space, which should come in handy.
Cadillac Escalade IQ tech features The tech on the inside of the Escalade IQ is particularly impressive. At the front of the car, there’s a massive 55-inch display that stretches all the way along the dashboard, similar to the Hyperscreen on offer in the Mercedes EQS.
 You won’t be able to use CarPlay or Android Auto on the display, however, it will make use of Android Automotive, which will offer access to Google apps and services.
Cadillac The optional Executive Second Row of seats will offer some sweet tech too. With these optional seats, you’ll get 12.6-inch rear headrest monitors for private watching. Apart from that, the second row can also include fold-out tray tables and reclining seats.
Overall, the Escalade IQ should offer a comfortable ride for the driver and passengers alike.
Cadillac Escalade IQ tax credit status The Cadillac Escalade IQ will not be eligible for the federal tax credit , as it’s too expensive. The limit for EVs is $80,000 — and the Escalade IQ starts at $130,000.
Our Cadillac Escalade IQ wish list As far as an Escalade goes, the Escalade IQ seems to offer more or less everything we would have wanted. It has a long range, fast charging speed, and relatively speedy performance. We’re hoping that the base model at least offers a range of 350 miles or so, if not more.
Editors' Recommendations Volvo EM90 electric minivan: price, release date, range, and more Volvo EX90 price, range, release date, specs, and more Driving hands-free with Enhanced Super Cruise in the 2021 Cadillac Escalade The 2021 Escalade has a 38-inch OLED screen and my god, it’s gorgerous The next Cadillac Escalade will be capable of changing lanes on its own Features Cars The Cadillac Escalade is all about excess. A massive SUV slathered in chrome and leather, it's a car for anyone who believes bigger is better. So it's appropriate that the next-generation Escalade will have one of the biggest screens ever installed in a production car.
The 2021 Cadillac Escalade won't be unveiled until February 4, 2020, but an early teaser confirmed the SUV will be available with a 38-inch curved OLED display screen that stretches about halfway across the dashboard. This means the Escalade will have the largest screen in a car built by a major manufacturer. Byton plans to use a 48-inch screen in its electric cars, but the company is a relatively new startup that hasn't produced a single car yet. Given the rocky history of automotive startups, it's entirely possible Byton's massive screen will never make it to production.
Cars Previous Next Cars Lucid Motors has become the latest automaker to announce that it will adopt the North American Charging Standard (NACS) – also known as "the Tesla plug" – for its electric vehicles.
The move follows in the footsteps of more than a dozen other automakers that have also adopted Tesla’s charging connector, among them General Motors, Ford, Toyota, BMW, Jaguar Land Rover, Volvo, and Honda.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
