Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Cars Features Can EVs be clean on a dirty electric grid? By Simon Sage Close American Wind Energy Association/Facebook While the world moves towards electrifying as many cars as possible, it’s only a part of solving the climate equation. Those electric vehicles still need to get charged, and if that power is generated by the likes of coal and, to a lesser extent, methane, it undercuts the cuts in emissions we’re aiming for.
Some EV critics claim that a dirty electrical grid completely negates any good an electric vehicle can do. But is that true? Let’s take a closer look at how a dirty grid affects the emissions of an electric vehicle.
EVs have a marginally higher up-front carbon cost compared to combustion engines, but those emissions are made up for over the lifetime of the vehicle’s use. By using electricity rather than gas, vehicles produce significantly fewer emissions, even when taking into account the cost of production and recycling.
ICCT The last report from the International Council on Clean Transportation (ICCT) paints a picture where EVs powered on the existing and projected American electrical grid are still more than twice as emission-friendly gas and biofuel cars. EVs powered by the existing grid mix are also more efficient than hybrids. We can improve these emissions further by running everything on renewable energy, but even without that grid transition, switching to EVs represents progress.
Check out the NASA EV that will drive Artemis crew (partway) to the moon How to maximize EV range in hot weather, according to the experts Ford EV drivers can use 12,000 Tesla Superchargers starting in 2024 The ICCT’s is just one of many lifecycle assessment studies that generally agree that EVs running on a dirty grid are still cleaner than combustion vehicles. One 2018 study compared Canadian jurisdictions, and Alberta, which produces 67% of its power by coal, enables EV drivers with 50% better lifetime emissions versus gas vehicles.
China has had a bit of a head start with EVs, but its electrical grid is primarily coal-powered. Even there, electric vehicles emit 29% less than internal combustion cars.
ChargePoint One challenge with these calculations is factoring in what kind of power is used during vehicle production.
One study in India found that its largely coal-based power grid contributed to higher emissions both during vehicle operation as well as production. These factors are estimated to make combustion cars the more eco-friendly option in that market for the time being. India has long-term plans to embrace renewable power, and EV lifecycle assessments like these hammer home the necessity of that transition.
A lack of EV battery recycling capacity still needs to be solved for, too. Without it, materials are improperly processed, increasing human and environmental exposure to a wide range of harmful metals.
Of the recyclers that exist, many do try to use renewable energy in their operations. Redwood Materials, a recycler founded by ex-Tesla CTO JB Straubel, actually uses residual power within batteries to support their recycling process.
Recycling methods vary vastly in their energy usage. Pyrometallurgy has been the traditional means of getting metals out of scrap, but it yields less than other methods and uses a fair bit of power to heat everything up. Electrometallurgy produces more material at the end of processing but uses even more power. Hydrometallurgy is much more energy efficient than both other methods, and recovers more materials, but is more expensive to run.
That said, lifecycle assessments attribute relatively few emissions to EV recycling compared to production and operation, especially since recovered materials can prevent emissions caused by the mining of virgin materials.
The environmental friendliness of electric vehicles isn’t measured in a vacuum. The grid plays a big role in determining the final footprint of an EV, but even when one is running on some of the world’s dirtiest power, it can still come ahead of gasoline cars.
Editors' Recommendations The Hyundai Ioniq 5 N makes one of the coolest EVs ready for the track How do you crash-test an EV with an 871-pound battery? Mercedes showed us These new NASA EVs will drive astronauts part way to the moon (sort of) Are EVs safe? From battery fires to autopilot, here are the facts Tesla recalls electric Semi truck just months after launch Features Tech for Change The Food Fight Cars Hyundai Motor Group has undergone a complete renaissance. Led by the likes of the Hyundai Ioniq 5 and the Kia EV6, the company has successfully reinvented itself as a world leader in the EV market, setting itself up for the future in a pretty serious way.
But Kia and Hyundai are joined by a third brand. Genesis is less-known than its sister companies, but like its parent, it’s facing explosive growth. Genesis was conceived as a luxury brand of Hyundai Motor Group — and as such, you might expect its EVs to take the best things about the EV6 and Ioniq 5, and then inject them with a little more luxury.
Cars As we move toward electric vehicles, all kinds of new car brands have been popping up -- giving the traditional automakers a run for their money. Over the past few years at CES, one of the more interesting of those has been VinFast -- a Vietnamese company that delivered its first cars in the U.S. in November. Now, the company is planning on more releases over the next year -- and at CES 2023, we learned more about what those cars will offer.
VinFast may not be very well known in the U.S., but it's actually one of the larger automakers in Vietnam. It certainly doesn't have the experience in manufacturing on the scale that it's hoping to in the U.S., but unlike many of the other electric carmakers, it is actually shipping cars -- not just building concepts. The VinFast VF8 crossover and VF9 SUV were announced earlier -- but little was known about the smaller VF6 and VF7 models, until now. Turns out, like their larger siblings, they're pretty compelling options.
VinFast VF6 Cars Electric pickup trucks are a hot trend in the auto industry, and Ram is late to the game. So the truck brand of massive automaker Stellantis needed to work hard to stand out.
Unveiled at CES 2023, the Ram 1500 Revolution BEV concept shows what Ram has in mind for its first production electric truck, which is scheduled to arrive in 2024. This concept version combines some features we’ve already seen on other electric trucks with a few clever new ideas. So while it may be revolutionary for the Ram brand, which is new to EVs, it’s more evolutionary when compared to other electric pickups.
Unmistakably electric The Ram 1500 Revolution has the bulky appearance of a traditional truck, but with proportions that clearly mark it as an EV. With no need to accommodate an engine, the hood is much shorter. This allowed designers to make the cabin four inches longer than today’s internal-combustion Ram 1500 without shortening the bed, Ram claims. The grille is also smaller, although Ram compensated for this with a giant light-up logo and headlights with the same “tuning fork” elements as its current gasoline and diesel truck grilles.
The roofline is a bit lower and sleeker, which probably helps with aerodynamics, but like a traditional truck, the Revolution rolls on massive wheels and tires. The 35-inch tires are wrapped around 24-inch wheels with smooth covers and light-up elements. The charge port, meanwhile, is located in the driver’s side front fender. It makes a noise when the truck has started charging and blinks to show that charging is ongoing.
Like rival truck makers, Ram incorporated a frunk where the engine would normally be, plus the RamBox storage bins from its current trucks. Nearly every opening, including the tailgate, frunk, and charge port, is also power-operated.
Underpinning all of this power-operated convenience is the STLA Frame dedicated EV platform, one of four such platforms Stellantis plans to use for future EVs across its many brands, such as Chrysler and Jeep.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
