Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Cars Features Don’t let these hidden EV fees catch you off guard (or deter you) By Christian de Looper Close EV manufacturers have long claimed that while electric cars often cost more upfront, they’ll save you money in the long run thanks to the lower cost of maintenance and the fact that electricity is cheaper than gas. While it’s true that EVs are cheaper over the life of a car , a number of factors can affect how long it will take to recoup the upfront investment. You’ve probably considered the cost of charging at home and at public charging stations, but here’s one factor catching EV buyers off guard: state registration fees.
Why are states imposing EV taxes? How much do EV registration fees cost? The benefits outweigh the downsides The matter isn’t settled Depending on where you live, you could pay hundreds of dollars more to register your car than drivers of gasoline cars do. Here’s why that’s happening, how much it’s costing EV drivers, and whether you should be concerned.
Why are states imposing EV taxes? There are some good reasons why electric car registration fees are higher than those for gas cars. In most states, there’s a gas tax that’s usually at least 20 cents per gallon, and sometimes much more. California, for instance, charges 58 cents per gallon. That tax usually goes to things like road upkeep.
Tesla launches more affordable Model S and Model X, but there’s a catch These new NASA EVs will drive astronauts part way to the moon (sort of) With EV Live, GM lets you chat up EV experts away from obnoxious dealers So what happens if customers stop paying for gas? Well, there’s less money for road upkeep. This means that states have to figure out other ways to make back the money needed to keep roads in good shape, and it only makes sense that these taxes should come from drivers of the cars using the roads.
Christian de Looper / Digital Trends The gas tax isn’t perfect, but taxing gas does mean that drivers who use the roads more pay more towards road upkeep. Changing the tax to a registration fee means that everyone pays a blanket amount, regardless of how often they drive. So a driver who works at home, and just uses their car to go to the grocery store once per week pays the same as those who commute two hours per day, putting more wear on the roads.
There’s no real quick fix to this issue, unfortunately. States could perhaps tax electricity generated at public charging stations — but most buyers charge at home or at work, making it difficult to determine how much of that electricity actually goes toward car charging. Alternatively, states could track mileage driven. Hawaii does this with an odometer reading obtained during a vehicle inspection at registration — however, this may not fly in states like California, where drivers can renew registration online, and where DMV wait times are much longer.
For now, imposing a big blanket tax on EVs is likely pretty easy for lawmakers to pass, considering the fact that EVs are often still considered a luxury for the rich. That, however, is changing — and lawmakers will likely have to come up with something that makes a little more sense.
Consumer Reports , for example, recently concluded that the maximum justifiable fee to charge Texas EV drivers for lost gas tax revenue is $71 per car. In reality, though, it charges much more.
How much do EV registration fees cost? These newly imposed EV registration fees vary widely from state to state, and given the fact that EV adoption is currently exploding, it’s likely that they’ll change more in the near future. And most states currently have some kind of EV registration fee on top of the standard car registration fee.
Joel Patel / Digital Trends Some EV registration fees can be relatively pricey. Texas Gov. Greg Abbott, for example, recently signed into law a new bill that raises the added EV registration fee to $200 per year — much higher than the standard fee of $50.75 for non-EV owners. Washington EV owners pay even more — $225 per year.
Not every state charges that much, of course. California charges “up to $175” per year, depending on the car’s value, while Hawaii charges $50 per year, or $0.008 per mile as a road usage fee. Hawaii has announced that it will be removing the $50 option starting in 2028, and in 2033, will apply the road usage fee to all drivers, regardless of car type.
The benefits outweigh the downsides Of course, the benefits of owning an electric car seriously outweigh the potential downsides. After all, most gas car drivers still spend much more than $225 per year on gas. That’s not to mention things like the $7,500 federal tax credit , if you can get it, along with the much lower cost of maintaining an electric car.
Joel Patel / Digital Trends You could split up these costs and benefits into two categories — those that come just by owning an electric car, and those that are imposed or offered by the government. It just makes sense that you would save money by powering a car with electricity. Sure, added taxes are a little frustrating, but if you can get that tax credit, it’ll pay for many years of registration fees.
The matter isn’t settled The landscape of electric car registration fees is changing quickly. It’s entirely possible that we’ll see more governments switch fully to a usage fee, like Hawaii. Until then, EV car owners may have to pay a little more at the DMV — but they should keep in mind that in the long run, they’re still saving a ton of cash compared to owning a gas-powered car.
Editors' Recommendations How do you crash-test an EV with an 871-pound battery? Mercedes showed us Tesla shows off first Cybertruck after two years of delays I agonized over EVs but bought a gas car instead. Here’s why I couldn’t be happier Ford EV drivers can use 12,000 Tesla Superchargers starting in 2024 Beware of this EV with pitiful charging speed — and others like it Features Cars You can't have more electric cars without more charging stations, so Mercedes-Benz is building a global charging network covering North America, China, Europe, and other major markets to support its goal of going all-electric by the end of the decade where market conditions allow.
Announced at CES 2023, the network should be in place by the end of the decade in line with Mercedes' electrification goal. It's a bold move by the automaker, which has mostly relied on third-party charging networks until now.
Cars For the past year, the Kia EV6 has been making headline after headline, thanks to its stylish design, competitive price, spacious cabin, and superfast charging. That's been the case to the point that Kia's other EV efforts have been perhaps a little ... buried. But the company is far from stepping back from its EV efforts. It's developing new products to build out the EV line like the upcoming EV9. And it's transitioning its current lineup to at least offer an EV option -- which is exactly where the 2023 Kia Niro EV comes in.
The Niro EV is in a bit of a weird spot, thanks in large part to the EV6 itself. They're both crossover EVs that occupy a similar spot in terms of pricing, and much of the same technology in terms of infotainment and driver-assist. And because of the fact that they're both Kia EV crossovers, you might assume that it's worth saving a few grand on the Niro EV over the EV6.
Cars The Chevrolet Silverado and GMC Sierra pickup trucks are twins, and that will continue to be the case when they go electric.
Chevy unveiled its Silverado EV at CES 2022, and now it’s GMC’s turn. The 2024 GMC Sierra EV borrows some key features from its Chevy sibling, as well GMC’s first electric truck — the Hummer EV. Some of those features were actually pioneered by General Motors two decades ago on non-electric trucks, and are now making a comeback.
You can reserve a Sierra EV now, but deliveries aren’t scheduled to start until early calendar-year 2024. Production starts with a high-end Denali Edition 1 model, with other versions arriving for the 2025 model year.
Design The Sierra EV updates the design language of the internal-combustion GMC Sierra for the electric age. A big grille is no longer needed for cooling, but it’s still an important styling element that designers didn’t want to break away from, Sharon Gauci, GMC executive director of global design, explained to Digital Trends and other media in an online briefing ahead of the truck’s reveal. The grille shape is now outlined in lights, with an illuminated GMC logo.
Like the Hummer EV and Silverado EV, the Sierra EV uses GM’s Ultium modular battery architecture which, among other things, means the battery pack is an integral part of the structure. So unlike most other trucks — including the rival Ford F-150 Lightning — the Sierra EV doesn’t have a separate frame. The cab and bed are one piece as well, all of which helps increase structural rigidity.
The Sierra EV also borrows the Midgate setup from the Silverado EV. First seen on the Chevy Avalanche and Cadillac Escalade EXT in the early 2000s, it allows the bulkhead and glass behind the cab to be removed, effectively extending the bed. Combined with the fold-out MultiPro tailgate from the internal-combustion Sierra, it can expand the default 5.0-foot, 11-inch bed length to 10 feet, 10 inches. A frunk (GMC calls it the “eTrunk”) provides covered storage space as well.
Because it’s pitched as a premium vehicle, the Sierra EV gets upscale interior materials like open-pore wood trim and stainless steel speaker grilles for its Bose audio system. But the design itself, with a freestanding portrait touchscreen and rectangular instrument cluster, looks suspiciously similar to the Ford Mustang Mach-E cabin. The touchscreen even has the same big volume knob as the Ford. We hope GMC’s lawyers are ready.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
