Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Cars Features With EV Live, GM lets you chat up EV experts away from obnoxious dealers By Christian de Looper Close Christian de Looper / Digital Trends EVs are finally moving from niche and expensive to mainstream and at least somewhat affordable, especially with cars like the new Volvo EX30 and now-doomed Chevy Bolt.
 But not everyone is comfortable with buying an electric car just yet. Between the unknowns of EV battery longevity and the anxiety associated with charging, there are plenty of customers who aren’t quite sure if an electric car is right for them.
What is EV Live? Bracing for an electric future But GM wants to help ease those fears. How? With a good old-fashioned Zoom call. A new program called EV Live lets you talk with EV experts and see the cars up-close, in a format that’s more convenient than driving to a dealership. GM invited me out to Michigan to show me exactly how EV Live works — and it’s actually a pretty smart idea.
What is EV Live? EV Live is essentially a way for GM to educate potential buyers on how to buy electric cars, what an electric car will do for them, and what kinds of cars are available from GM.
Charging your EV is about to get easier, as carmakers team up to build 30,000 chargers GM expands recall to all Chevy Bolt EVs due to fire risk 2022 Chevy Bolt EV and Bolt EUV: More electric cars to love The way it works is pretty simple. You head to the EV Live website and join a tour right away, or schedule either a one-on-one or group tour for a future date. You’re plopped into a live chat with a GM representative, just like a Zoom call, but your camera won’t be active.
When you’re in the tour, you’ll be guided through a look at GM’s EVs, the platform powering those EVs, and some of the charging tech that you can use to keep an EV topped up. Customers who join can ask anything they want about EVs, ensuring that they get the information they need to make a purchase decision. For example, perhaps you have a question about the difference between Level 2 and Level 3 charging. The representative will walk over to the charging station section, to give a visual look at the differences and how they affect drivers. It’s all free, and it’s all very easy to use.
Christian de Looper / Digital Trends Behind the scenes, the setup is pretty cool. GM representatives basically walk around a giant room with a phone on a mobile gimbal, talking to prospective buyers and offering information about what EVs are and how they work. The spotless, well-lit room is similar to what you might see at a showroom or auto show.
The end goal? Of course, it’s to sell more GM EVs. But since you can’t exactly click “Add to cart” on a $35,000 car online, there’s less pressure than you might feel in a dealership environment.
GM say it’s not meant to be a replacement for the dealership — it’s meant to be a tool to educate buyers. Of course, GM wouldn’t invest the money in this kind of thing if it didn’t think that EV Live would convert customers — whether they be customers now or customers at some point in the future.
Bracing for an electric future GM has had a bit of a rocky year or so in the EV space. While the Chevy Bolt EV was one of the cheapest electric cars with a decent range, the company is set to discontinue the car at the end of the year following multiple recalls. Not only that, but the company just announced that it’s switching away from the CCS charging standard to Tesla’s NACS plug — potentially adding to confusion due to the need for adapters at non-Tesla stations, and raising questions about how seamless using a non-Tesla car at a Tesla charging station could really be. And while you can visit a dealership and walk out with a Bolt today, the Silverado, Equinox, and Blazer EV remain months away. In the meantime, Ford, Tesla, and Volvo offer compelling alternatives that most drivers should cross-shop on their hunt for the best EV.
However, no other company has stepped up with an education effort like EV Live. Sure, customers can search the web for answers to their questions, but getting a real person on the line to explain things is a great way to learn, especially for would-be buyers who may not be as internet savvy.
Ever try to explain electric car charging to your EV-curious grandmother? With EV Live, you may not have to.
Editors' Recommendations Affordable is not enough. Here’s what Chevy’s new Bolt needs to nail 2024 Chevrolet Equinox EV aims for affordability with $30,000 base price Chevy will pay charging-station installation costs for 2022 Bolt EV buyers 2020 Chevrolet Bolt EV rated at 259 miles of range, outpacing most rivals 2020 Chevrolet Silverado 1500 pickup lets you see through trailers — sort of Features Virtual Reality Cars Lucid Motors has become the latest automaker to announce that it will adopt the North American Charging Standard (NACS) – also known as "the Tesla plug" – for its electric vehicles.
The move follows in the footsteps of more than a dozen other automakers that have also adopted Tesla’s charging connector, among them General Motors, Ford, Toyota, BMW, Jaguar Land Rover, Volvo, and Honda.
Cars General Motors-owned Cruise has halted production of its fully driverless vehicle -- the Origin -- just over a week after it suspended robotaxi operations nationwide following a number of troubling incidents involving its cars.
The news was announced by Cruise CEO Kyle Vogt during a meeting with staff on Monday, according to Forbes, which obtained audio of the gathering.
Cars The Ram brand is finally taking an electrified approach, and by resurrecting the Ramcharger name, no less. Alongside the new 2025 Ram 1500, the company has unveiled the new 2025 Ram 1500 Ramcharger, a new plug-in hybrid that Ram touts as offering "unlimited battery electric range." The new truck is one of a number of electrified trucks, the most well-known of which include the fully-electric Ford F-150 Lightning and the new Chevrolet Silverado EV. But instead of being fully electric, the 1500 Ramcharger is a plug-in hybrid, meaning that it has an electric motor and battery, and a gas tank and engine.
The plug-in approach It's perhaps a smart move. Electric trucks show a lot of promise -- but they start to falter a little when it comes to things like towing and hauling heavy loads. Keeping the 1500 Ramcharger a hybrid means that with no load or light ones, the truck can zip around town on electric power -- and when necessary, it can switch the engine on to tow or haul. It could well be the perfect combo for many truck owners who at least occasionally need that extra oomph, but who still could stand to save some cash -- and go a little easier on the environment - when simply driving around town.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
