Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Cars Features I agonized over EVs but bought a gas car instead. Here’s why I couldn’t be happier By Andy Boxall Close As someone who loves driving and has adored cars since before I could even walk, I’m definitely what you’d call an enthusiast, and this has always been reflected in my choice of car. I don’t think I’ve ever bought a “boring” or ordinary one. Recently, it came time to change my beloved older car to a newer one, so I went on a long mission to find the right one. In addition to loving cars, I also love tech, and would certainly consider myself a keen early adopter. Could an electric car (EV) be next , I wondered? Grocery getters need not apply EVs for enthusiasts are unicorns Everything changes in 2030 What did I do? It turns out that no, it could not. Despite approaching the decision with an open mind, I ended up buying a used gasoline-powered car instead — probably one you wouldn’t expect from a would-be EV buyer. This is how I came to that decision, why I’m glad I held off on an EV for now, and what I hope will change by the time I’m ready for my next ride.
Grocery getters need not apply Vauxhall Corsa e Image used with permission by copyright holder Before we get into why I’m glad, it’s imperative to understand what kind of car I wanted. It would be replacing a 2004 986 Porsche Boxster 2.7, so practicality wasn’t something I was worried about, but driving enjoyment, dynamics, performance, and visual appeal absolutely were. It will barely do 5,000 miles in a year, and because I work from home, it will never do a commute. I also expect to own it for five years or so, and don’t mind the expense of proper maintenance during that time, because that’s all part of owning a car you love.
Don’t let these hidden EV fees catch you off guard (or deter you) The Sony Honda Afeela car is peak CES, and I’m totally here for it Google deploys a Jaguar I-Pace as its first all-electric Street View car Any car I’ve chosen has mostly been about the way it makes me feel and how I connect with it. I want to photograph it, look back at it when I walk away after parking, and in the future, think back to the adventures I had with it. I’ve always bought this kind of car, and have until now never had a problem doing so, once I’d put in the time finding the right one. I actually really enjoy this experience, and always look forward to it.
Peugeot e208 Image used with permission by copyright holder I’m also happy to buy a used car. Buying a brand new vehicle is pretty bad for the environment when you don’t do many miles per year, and I don’t. Plus, I don’t really want a crippling lease hanging over my head, as my budget alone (although generous in my mind) wouldn’t really reach the heights of a brand-new vehicle. With these requirements, my potential new vehicle list has always been pretty short, but I was not prepared for the absolute dearth of choice if I wanted to buy an EV. And I use the word “choice” very sarcastically.
EVs for enthusiasts are unicorns Honda e Image used with permission by copyright holder When I started out, I wanted to understand if there was the potential for a used electric car, so I looked at new models first. It’s a young market, so this was the easiest way to quickly understand what may be out there.
There are around 70 different electric car models available in the U.K., and at least half of them are crushingly ordinary. I’d never consider a petrol Vauxhall Corsa, base Mini Cooper, or a Peugeot 208, let alone a nearly 2-ton electric one with a feeble range and lackluster performance, so they were all out. I tested the cute Honda E and I liked it, but it’s still a small, decidedly non-sporty hatchback, so it wasn’t really what I was after.
Being embarrassed every time I walk away from my new purchase in the car park isn’t what I had in mind.
But far, far worse was the price of all these cars. For a decent specification, the Honda E would have cost a whopping 41,770 British pounds($51, 650), and it turned out this wasn’t an anomaly. The Cupra Born, Kia EV6, and Hyundai Ioniq 5 all get the styling right but cost even more.
 The few EVs that cost slightly less than this aren’t appealing for other reasons, such as the still expensive 32,000 pound ($41,350) Ora Funky Cat with its overly bulbous styling. Being embarrassed every time I walk away from my new purchase in the car park isn’t what I had in mind. As I was replacing a convertible, it would be nice to have another one. My “choice” was a recently released Fiat 500e Cabrio (so not even a real convertible) that starts at 37,195 pounds ($47,490), and specced up would be the same as the Honda E.
Fiat 500e Cabrio Image used with permission by copyright holder What about the other half of the market? Well, they’re all insanely expensive. Now, I know all cars are expensive these days, but to find something electric that’s also interesting and sporty, the prices become astronomical. I’d love a Porsche Taycan Sport Turismo, but with a modest spec, it would cost 97,257 pounds ($120,230). The cheapest used Taycan cars are around 70,000 pounds ($90,000), and the Audi e-tron GT is the same. A Polestar 2 (the Long Range Dual Motor Performance model) with leather is 64,850 pounds ($80,170) and is really only on the edge of being sporty enough.
I don’t want a Tesla because I’ve driven a few, and apart from the disappointing quality, once I’d experienced the acceleration a few times, they left me entirely cold. All the other options are SUVs, so no matter if I like the look of the Vauxhall Mokka Electric, Jaguar i-Pace , Audi Q4 Sportback e-tron, and Genesis GV60, I have absolutely no use for such a massive vehicle.
Everything changes in 2030 Porsche Taycan Cross Turismo Image used with permission by copyright holder For me, as an enthusiast who would prefer a sporty convertible, but who also doesn’t have, or want, to spend more than $90,000 on a used performance electric car that still misses out on the drop top, my “choice” effectively totaled one.
 Even then, the Fiat can hardly be considered a hot hatch. The costs involved for a new electric car were far beyond my means, and nothing fitted my requirements anyway, so closely examining the used market after being left feeling poor by the new models was pointless.
The time for me to enjoy some of the petrol cars I’ve long wanted to own is now.
There was also something else in the back of my mind. I live in the U.K., and in 2030 brand new dedicated petrol and diesel vehicles will be banned from sale. In 2035, new hybrids will also stop being sold. The logistics of running an electric car will also have improved by this time. Like so many people, I live in an apartment with private parking, but no way to have a fixed home charger, and that means relying on the public charging network. While the infrastructure is getting better all the time, it’s still not good in my area. I just don’t need the extra hassle, especially when my main goal is driving enjoyment. When 2030 rolls around, the infrastructure should be — actually, it needs to be — far superior to today.
Ora Funky Cat Image used with permission by copyright holder It all means that over the next few years, and from 2030 onward, electric cars will become hugely more prevalent than now, with more models, more configurations, and more variety available, all with a better underlying network for charging and hopefully, at more varied prices. But I’ve no idea what will happen to existing gas cars during this time. Used vehicles will still be sold, but everything around them is an absolute unknown. The availability of petrol itself, the cost of servicing, parts prices, and the values of desirable cars are a mystery. That’s all before wondering about synthetic fuels currently being explored by Porsche and in motorsport too.
What I do know is the U.K. government has made it quite clear that after 2030, the internal combustion engine won’t be all that welcome.
What did I do? Porsche Boxster S Image used with permission by copyright holder There’s no electric car that fits my life or my wallet, but there are hundreds of petrol cars available, all at prices I can afford. I don’t know what will happen to these vehicles when 2030 comes around, but I do know electric cars will only get better and more affordable. It seems my time for an electric car will come, but the time for me to enjoy some of the petrol cars I’ve long wanted to own is now.
So what did I do? My 986 went on to a new owner, and I spent a lot less than the cost of a brand new Honda E replacing it with a 2012 981 Porsche Boxster S. As a used car, the environmental debt from its manufacture has been paid, and re-using and looking after existing cars is still ecologically mindful, plus I could actually afford it.
 It’s the last non-special-edition Boxster with a flat-six petrol engine, it sounds utterly wonderful, gives me so much pleasure to drive and stare at, and I’m extremely pleased with my choice.
It makes me glad there wasn’t an electric car for me today, as the 981 may end up being my last, great petrol car hurrah, and if I didn’t do it now I’d likely forever regret it. As it stands petrol car ownership is likely to dramatically change over the next few years as electric car ownership becomes increasingly viable for everyone. People like me aren’t catered for with electric cars at this stage, and in turn, it’s a great time for the enthusiast to experience all those low-use, used, exciting, aspirational, memorable, and crucially, affordable cars that may soon be out of reach, or simply less attractive. I’m looking forward to getting an electric car, but at the moment, one for me just doesn’t exist.
If I was looking for a car as a tool to commute in, lug family around it, or desired a plug-in hybrid , the outcome may have been very different.
Editors' Recommendations I can’t wait for the electric Range Rover — here’s why Apple wants to supercharge CarPlay, but here’s why carmakers won’t bite I bought a gas guzzler with the government’s EV tax credit BMW i4 brings the ultimate driving machine into EV territory 2022 Chevy Bolt EV and Bolt EUV: More electric cars to love Features Cars Self-driving car testing on public roads gets most of the headlines, but that was no longer an option for Waymo once the coronavirus pandemic hit the United States earlier this year. With shelter-in-place orders in effect, Waymo's testing program retreated behind the walls of a closed-course facility called Castle.
Castle is a 113-acre self-driving car testing facility built on the former Castle Air Force Base in Atwater, California, about two hours southeast of San Francisco. Since 2013, Waymo has been using the site to run prototype cars through the toughest scenarios engineers could come up with. This so-called "structured testing" has always been part of the process of developing autonomous cars, but during the worst of the pandemic, it became the main way to keep that process going. Waymo pulled its test cars off public roads in March (it also suspended operations at Castle for a time during that period), and resumed operations in Arizona in May.
Cars Tesla released its 2019 financial results Wednesday, which means it's time for some ambitious goal setting. The Silicon Valley automaker said it expects to "comfortably exceed" 500,000 deliveries in 2020. That's a big step up from 2019's total, but given the progress Tesla has made over the past few years, as well as the production capacity it's working with, that goal should be achievable.
Tesla has been steadily ramping up production since the launch of the Model 3 in 2017. The automaker said it delivered 367,500 cars in 2019 -- 50 percent more than the previous year. To reach 500,000 units, Tesla needs to build 132,500 more cars in 2020 than it did in 2019 -- an increase of 36 percent. So Tesla doesn't need as big an increase for 2020 as it already achieved in 2019. Tesla also has significant untapped production capacity.
Factory upgrades Tesla's main factory in Fremont, California, was able to build 500,000 cars a year back when it was a General Motors/Toyota joint venture making Toyota Corollas. Tesla's challenge since buying the factory has been unlocking that potential to build its own electric cars. In its 2019 financial results, Tesla said the Fremont factory now has a production capacity of 400,000 cars per year. Upgrades scheduled to finish in mid-2020 will increase capacity for the Model 3 and upcoming Model Y to 500,000 units per year, according to Tesla.
Cars Previous Next Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
