Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Cars Features Modern cars are a privacy nightmare, and there’s no way to opt out By Christian de Looper Close Stephen Edelstein / Digital Trends Cars are changing, and quickly. Electric cars are on the rise, and at the same time, manufacturers are pushing autonomous driving technologies — even if we’re still a while away from actual self-driving cars. But there are other aspects about cars that are changing too — the fact that they’re becoming increasingly connected, and increasingly computer-controlled. And, with all the data that cars can collect, privacy is becoming increasingly important.
Why are car companies so bad at privacy? Which cars are the worst? What now? Turns out, however, cars aren’t that great at preserving your privacy. In fact, they’re terrible at it.
According to a new report from Mozilla , every major car brand has glaring privacy concerns — so much so that Mozilla ranked cars as “the official worst category of products for privacy.” That’s below notoriously privacy-unaware product categories, like mental health apps and sex toys.
How Nissan’s ‘invisible-to-visible’ tech could pave the way for autonomous cars Lyft and Aptiv’s self-driving car program has come a long way (but not far enough) Why are car companies so bad at privacy? There are a ton of reasons why cars are so bad at handling your privacy. For starters, according to the report, they simply collect too much data — and the report is quick to highlight that every car brand does this. This data can range from how users interact with their car, to some information from third-party services like Google Maps.
 If they have an accompanying app, cars can even collect data from your phone.
2024 BMW i5 BMW Once they’ve collected that data, they’re not very careful with it. In fact, 84% of car brands share your personal data, and 76% of them sell it.
Perhaps the worst part is that, unlike devices like TVs, there’s no way for the user to opt out of these privacy violations. Ninety-two percent of car brands give the user no control over their data — with only two brands giving users the right to have their data deleted.
The ending result of the study? Not a single car company met Mozilla’s Minimum Security Standards, which include the very basics — things like data encryption.
Which cars are the worst? Perhaps the most interesting aspect of the study was exactly which car companies are worst. You would assume that the tech-focused new brands would at least be better at handling user privacy — but on the contrary, Tesla was the worst offender.
Tesla cars represented the second product ever to fail in every single category of Mozilla’s study — meaning that Tesla cars collect user data without giving the user control, and they fail to secure that data. That’s despite the fact that Tesla has signed onto a list of Consumer Protection Principles. It just … doesn’t follow them.
Tesla Despite how bad Tesla is, the second-worst was arguably creepier. Nissan earned its place in the second-worst slot for some of its data collection categories, which include the user’s “sexual activity.” Kia also collects information about the user’s “sex life,” and a hefty six car companies collect users’ “genetic information.” Yeah, it’s pretty absurd.
What now? There’s really a very limited solution to this problem. Mozilla said in its report that the advice it usually gives to customers to protect their privacy feels like “tiny drops in a massive bucket.” In other industries, you could simply spend your money on companies that have good data practices. If you don’t like the fact that Google’s business model revolves around collecting user data, you could simply buy an iPhone.
You don’t really have that option here. While some car companies seem less bad than others, they’re all terrible at protecting your privacy.
Christian de Looper / Digital Trends Even if you wanted to switch cars, it’s a lot trickier than switching phones. Between the hassle of visiting a dealer, registering the new car, and selling the old car, it’s no wonder most people feel stuck. And that’s if you can even find a new model in today’s competitive market, where you need to be ready to pull the trigger before someone else swoops in.
So if we can’t vote with our wallets, what can be done? Car companies aren’t careless, they’re greedy. The ones selling your data are making money from you years after you’ve paid for their car, and they’re unlikely to turn off that money tap just based on one report.
There needs to be better legislation, not just around data collection, but around the selling of user data too. Car companies should be held to a standard of data protection — and if they leak it or it gets hacked based on their carelessness, there should be massive fines. In the meantime, applying pressure to lawmakers may be our best option to stop car companies from tracking our every move in the cars we own.
Editors' Recommendations Tesla Model S police car almost runs out of electricity during high-speed chase There’s finally a way to retrofit your old car with modern crash-avoidance tech Features Cars Lucid Motors has become the latest automaker to announce that it will adopt the North American Charging Standard (NACS) – also known as "the Tesla plug" – for its electric vehicles.
The move follows in the footsteps of more than a dozen other automakers that have also adopted Tesla’s charging connector, among them General Motors, Ford, Toyota, BMW, Jaguar Land Rover, Volvo, and Honda.
Cars General Motors-owned Cruise has halted production of its fully driverless vehicle -- the Origin -- just over a week after it suspended robotaxi operations nationwide following a number of troubling incidents involving its cars.
The news was announced by Cruise CEO Kyle Vogt during a meeting with staff on Monday, according to Forbes, which obtained audio of the gathering.
Cars The Ram brand is finally taking an electrified approach, and by resurrecting the Ramcharger name, no less. Alongside the new 2025 Ram 1500, the company has unveiled the new 2025 Ram 1500 Ramcharger, a new plug-in hybrid that Ram touts as offering "unlimited battery electric range." The new truck is one of a number of electrified trucks, the most well-known of which include the fully-electric Ford F-150 Lightning and the new Chevrolet Silverado EV. But instead of being fully electric, the 1500 Ramcharger is a plug-in hybrid, meaning that it has an electric motor and battery, and a gas tank and engine.
The plug-in approach It's perhaps a smart move. Electric trucks show a lot of promise -- but they start to falter a little when it comes to things like towing and hauling heavy loads. Keeping the 1500 Ramcharger a hybrid means that with no load or light ones, the truck can zip around town on electric power -- and when necessary, it can switch the engine on to tow or haul. It could well be the perfect combo for many truck owners who at least occasionally need that extra oomph, but who still could stand to save some cash -- and go a little easier on the environment - when simply driving around town.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
