Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Cars Features Apple wants to supercharge CarPlay, but here’s why carmakers won’t bite By Christian de Looper Close Apple Apple is ready to take CarPlay to the next level.
At last year’s Wordwide Developers Conference , the company announced an all-new version of CarPlay that would not only serve as your car’s infotainment system, but also take over the rest of the screens in the car, showing information about your speed and the car itself, alongside information pulled from your phone, like your calendar events and the weather.
Money to be made Standing apart from the pack I hope Apple gets the keys When it was first announced, this new version of CarPlay was supposed to launch by the end of 2023. That means that if the new CarPlay launches on time, it should be right around the corner.
But I don’t necessarily think that it will launch on time. In fact, I’m not fully convinced it’ll launch at all, and if it does, I’d be surprised to see mass adoption. Here’s why.
Money to be made There’s one big reason why I don’t think Apple’s new, revamped CarPlay will gain much traction — carmakers are now, finally , at a point where they’re realizing that user attention on their software can be valuable, and they don’t want to give that user attention up.
There are a few reasons for this. One of them is just the investment. As software has become more important to the driving experience, carmakers have poured money into refining theirs, and throwing that away now would be a huge waste.
Alex Kalogianni / Digital Trends Perhaps even more importantly, software could become a major source of subscription revenue for car companies. As cars are increasingly driving themselves, even if just on the highway for now, companies are starting to charge for features on a monthly basis, rather just once upfront. For instance, BMW has experimented with charging a monthly fee for heated seats and Tesla charges $199 per month for Full Self-Driving.
 As time goes on, it only makes sense that these companies will try to increase their subscription offerings by unlocking more features in their own software. Handing any services over to Apple leaves less to charge for.
Some companies have already taken the step toward forcing users to use their own software, including General Motors, which has announced that it will no longer be supporting CarPlay on its cars.
Standing apart from the pack There’s another reason automotive companies may want to put more effort into developing their own software — as a point of differentiation. As we head toward a world of EVs , there are simply fewer things that make cars unique. Why? For the most part, electric cars just kind of … feel the same. Yes, some go faster, and some go slower — but there’s less of that identity that their gas-powered cousins have.
Christian de Looper / Digital Trends Now, to be clear, the trade-off is a world of cleaner, faster cars, and that’s a good thing. But it does mean that carmakers need to inject identity into their cars in different ways. Ways like interesting designs, more luxurious interiors, and yes, software.
I hope Apple gets the keys Obviously, carmakers have a long way to go before car buyers seek them out for their special software, if they get there at all. Here’s the thing — car software is pretty terrible. Like, almost all of it. In my experience, every legacy carmaker builds subpar software, and while the likes of Tesla certainly make better software than the rest, it’s still not great.
Apple It would be very interesting to see what would happen if Apple was given a shot to take over the car software experience. There’s no guarantee that the revamped version of CarPlay would be much better than the rest, though it would almost certainly be prettier. But, it feels like it’s much more likely that Apple’s software will be better than that of a company like General Motors or BMW.
Of course, questions still remain about the system. Maybe it’ll just be like existing iterations of CarPlay, which rely on the phone’s processing power to run the software. In that case, carmakers would still develop their own software for those who don’t have iPhones or don’t want to use CarPlay, just like they currently do.
My ultimate hope? Automakers stop trying to build their own software, and simply cede control to the likes of Apple and Google, who have much more experience in building software, and can build software tools that just work better.
Editors' Recommendations I agonized over EVs but bought a gas car instead. Here’s why I couldn’t be happier This $3 USB adapter fixed all of my Apple CarPlay connection problems The next generation of Apple CarPlay will power your entire car, riding the trend of all-screen autos Amazon Music now has a car mode, but don’t use it while driving Porsche lets enthusiasts seamlessly add Apple CarPlay to 50-year-old cars Apple Features Cars Driving while impaired is often vilified as the most dangerous thing to do on four wheels, but a recent study suggests using infotainment software like Android Auto and Apple CarPlay reduces a driver's reaction time more than booze or pot. United Kingdom-based road safety advocate group IAM RoadSmart wants the government to take action.
The group pointed out the average driver's reaction time is about a second; that means when the car in front slams on its brakes, it's going to take a full second for the person following it to do the same. That figure increases by 12% when someone takes the wheel after reaching the legal alcohol limit, and by 21% when a person drives after smoking or eating cannabis. Using Android Auto and Apple CarPlay increased the reaction time by 53% and 57%, respectively.
Cars The current Hyundai Elantra is a solid compact car, but with the redesigned, seventh-generation model, the Korean automaker is going for broke. The 2021 Hyundai Elantra packs more tech, as well as its first hybrid powertrain, in effort to break the stranglehold the Honda Civic and Toyota Corolla have on the market.
Hyundai said its goal for exterior styling is "longer, lower, wider," -- generally considered the three ingredients for a great-looking car. Though it's a four-door sedan (no word yet on whether the Elantra GT hatchback will return), the 2021 Elantra adopts the lower coupe roofline of the larger Sonata for a sleeker look.
Cars Previous Next Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
