Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Cars Features I can’t wait for the electric Range Rover — here’s why By Christian de Looper Close The world of EVs is changing — and quick. Finally, the legacy automakers are releasing high-end, compelling electric car options that are joining the ranks of the already-great EVs from new companies. But after driving a particular plug-in hybrid (technically an EV, but not all-electric), there’s one particular electric car that I’m suddenly very excited for.
If it ain’t broke, don’t fix it Ultra luxury Serious competition There’s a Range Rover-sized hole in the EV industry.
To be clear, Land Rover has announced an electric Range Rover, set to be available for preorder in “late 2023” and released to the public in 2024. There are some details about it out in the wild, but overall, we know very little so far. Even then, I feel like there’s far too little buzz about the car — considering the fact that when it does finally launch, it could be the best, most luxurious electric SUV to date.
Honda’s electric SUV is coming soon. Here’s what we know about the 2024 Prologue Both sporty and posh, the i5 may be the electric BMW you’ve been waiting for I just installed my own EV charger. Here are 6 things to know first Here’s what makes me so excited about the electric Range Rover.
If it ain’t broke, don’t fix it This week, I’ve been driving the 2023 Range Rover SE plug-in hybrid, and what I love about it starts from the exterior. The car offers an all-new design for 2023 — and it’s stunning. With smooth, slightly curved lines along its side, and flush door handles that extend quickly and seamlessly when you go to enter the car, it impresses from the first moment you look at it.
Christian de Looper / Digital Trends The front of the car is the only thing that I’m not totally fine with. The headlights look great, and there’s a large grille for cooling between them — something that Range Rover will have to decide what to do with when the EV is launched. After all, it may need cooling of some kind, but far from the same level of cooling as a gas-powered car. There’s actually a second space for air intake toward the bottom of the front of the car, making for a slightly busy look.
I don’t mind the front though — and as mentioned, I find the rest of the car’s design to be stunning, including the rear, which has that long Range Rover logo extended across the back and a split trunk that makes it easier to load larger objects into the car. I will note that I definitely prefer the look of the rear in the Belgravia Green color more than I would if the car was white, and that’s because the gray highlights blend in a little better. Perhaps you’ll prefer the contrast, though.
Christian de Looper / Digital Trends Overall, I hope the handsome looks of the exterior of the car don’t change too much when Range Rover does launch an electric version. I would be surprised if that did happen, given the fact that this new look is so new — but car companies have been taking electrification as an opportunity to completely change the appearance of their cars. Much of the time, that’s been a good thing, and it has breathed new life into long-lasting models. But the current-generation Range Rover still has plenty of life left in its design.
Ultra luxury Of course, the real luxury of the plug-in hybrid Range Rover mostly becomes apparent when you step inside of it. It’s spacious, comfortable, and modern. And once you’re inside, it becomes ever more clear that the Range Rover is built for luxury — and built to hit a certain, very high, price point. In fact, it may well offer one of my favorite car interiors, period.
Seats are comfortable and highly adjustable, including the passenger seats in the second row. There are clearly premium materials throughout, as well as plenty of storage at the back for those who need it.
Christian de Looper / Digital Trends Even better is how modern it is. In fact, before driving it, you’d be forgiven for thinking it’s actually an EV, despite the obvious fact that high-end screens certainly aren’t unique to electric cars. The main infotainment display, for starters, is stunning. It’s super bright and colorful, to be sure, but even better is the fact that it’s slightly curved and just kind of fits perfectly where it is. Boiled down, it is just a big tablet at the front of the car — but it doesn’t look like it was just added there for the sake of it. There are plenty of carmakers that are still figuring out how to include big screens in their car, but this car doesn’t suffer from that issue. The same is true of the instrument display, which again, looks great.
I wouldn’t mind if Land Rover made no changes to the interior of the car for the electric model. It looks and feels great, and should continue to do so for years to come.
Serious competition Ultimately, unfortunately, the real need for more electric SUVs comes in the low end. There are at least a few high-end electric SUVs, and some of them could pose a serious challenge to Land Rover for the title of the best luxury electric SUV.
Rivian Perhaps the most obvious of this competition comes from the likes of Rivian and Mercedes-Benz. These two companies take a very different approach to electric SUVs. Rivian is a new company, built specifically to manufacturer electric cars. As such, its cars offer a good range, fast charging speed, and innovative, modern features.
Mercedes-Benz’s electric SUVs are a little smaller, and less boxy, meaning that there’s a little less interior space. They are, however, also very luxurious.
So what does Range Rover have to do to offer a truly great luxury electric SUV? Well, it already has the luxury part down. All it has to do there is … more of the same. But the electric part may be a little challenging. We’re hoping that it can deliver at least 300 miles of range and a charging speed of at least 250 kilowatts. We’ll have to wait and see if it can deliver, in the end — but at the price that the electric Range Rover is likely to sell for, we’re certainly hoping so.
Editors' Recommendations Car climate controls are better with a knob, but Range Rover does digital right The Kia EV9 is coming, but you should wait to buy one. Here’s why Apple wants to supercharge CarPlay, but here’s why carmakers won’t bite I agonized over EVs but bought a gas car instead. Here’s why I couldn’t be happier 2024 BMW i5 unveiled as the first electric 5 Series Features Cars Electric SUVs don't come cheap. Sure, there are some decent options out there, but for anyone who wants something larger than a midsize crossover like the Tesla Model Y or Kia EV6, you're looking at spending some serious change. But there's one EV that will be here soon, and it could finally breathe life into the accessible electric SUV space -- the Kia EV9.
After a flashy concept, over a year of rumors, and finally, more public details, the Kia EV9 is finally on the way. And while it won't be the best EV of the year, it's certainly the one I'm most excited about. In fact, once it's released, it could be the car that I eventually buy, after holding out on an EV to date.
A true SUV As mentioned, there are plenty of excellent electric SUVs out there -- if you're flexible with your definition. Many vehicles are often called SUVs, but are actually closer in size to crossovers. The best of these include the Tesla Model Y, the Kia EV6, the Hyundai Ioniq 5, and the Ford Mustang Mach-E. At the upper end, you'll also find cars like the Tesla Model X and Mercedes EQS SUV.
Cars Electric cars are getting pretty cool. While Tesla popularized the concept of a "fun" electric car, these days there are quite a few options out there, like the Kia EV6, the Hyundai Ioniq 5, and even some luxury options from Mercedes and BMW. These cars offer awesome performance and often a sweet design, making them excellent choices for first-time EV buyers.
But with electric trucks, it's a slightly different story. To be clear, they're just as powerful, -- often more so -- than electric cars. But when you're driving a truck, you expect to be able to use that power in different ways, and frankly, electric trucks seem to have a way to go before they'll hold up in those settings.
Towing is tough The Achilles' heel of every electric truck comes down to hauling: Adding a ton of weight to the load seriously impacts range -- and not in a trivial way. Add a camper or even a lightweight trailer, and you might find that you're getting half of the expected range out of a charge. That means that you'll have to charge up more than every 150 miles, and if you're towing a camper, it's very likely that you're driving further than that. And even lighter loads can have a heavy impact on range.
Cars Everyone knew what was coming. Sitting a half-dozen rows back at the Sony press conference the afternoon before the CES show floor actually opened, you could tell by the layout of the booth — drastically different from what Sony had in previous years — that something big was going to be wheeled out.
That something, of course, was a car. It wasn't a big secret. Folks were talking about it on the bus ride to the Las Vegas Convention Center from the Mandalay Bay Convention Center, where a good chunk of the work happens before the CES doors are open. Folks were talking about it — in all sorts of languages — in the long line down the hallway that separates two of the bigger halls at the LVCC. English. Japanese. Spanish. So many others. And you didn't have to actually know what they were saying to know what they were talking about.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
