Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Cars Guides Rivian R1S vs. Kia EV9: Is the more expensive electric SUV really better? By Christian de Looper Close While electric crossovers have become extremely popular, SUV-sized vehicles haven’t been quite as common. Sure, Tesla calls the Model X an SUV, but many customers think of a specific shape and size of car when they think of an SUV — and the Tesla Model X doesn’t really fit that. Now, however, actual electric SUVs are finally coming out — like the Rivian R1S and the Kia EV9.
Design Interior and tech Performance Pricing and availability Overall winner The Rivian R1S may come from a lesser-known and smaller brand, but that certainly doesn’t make it worse. In fact, it could make the company more nimble, and more innovative. But, there’s still something to be said for the reliability of a well-known brand.
When it comes right down to it, which is better — the Kia EV9 or the Rivian R1S? Here’s everything you need to know.
Rivian reportedly delays R1T deliveries amid supply chain and quality issues Rivian R1T electric pickup to roll out June 2021 as Illinois factory sets up Rivian’s all-electric, seven-seat R1S isn’t your typical family SUV Design The Rivian R1S and Kia EV9 may have similarities in design, but as far as large SUVs go, they still look pretty different.
Kia / Kia That all starts at the front. The Kia EV9 has what Kia calls the “Digital Tiger Face,” with angular headlights on the front and a mean-looking style. The roof slopes slightly towards the back, where more angular lights can be found.
The Rivian R1S is a different take on the SUV. A prominent light bar extends along the front, interrupted only by the oval headlights that have become synonymous with the Rivian name. On the back of the Rivian R1S, another light bar serves as the taillights for a decidedly more friendly take on SUV design than the Kia.
The EV9 is a handsome SUV, and a little more aggressive. But the Rivian is a little fresher and a little more modern. I actually don’t find one to be better — I love the look of both of them.
Winner: Tie Interior and tech Those vibes extend into the interior of the car. The interior of the Kia EV9 is very modern and high-tech, with dual screens at the front for instrument information and infotainment. The interior of the car is very comfortable too. The EV9 boasts three rows, with options for either six or seven seats, so there’s plenty of room for most families. Generally, however, apart from the dual-screen setup at the front, the EV9 offers a slightly more traditional take on interior car design.
Stephen Edelstein / Digital Trends The Rivian R1S is a little more interesting in interior design. The car also has two screens, however those include a much larger 15.6-inch center display with an infotainment system that’s powered by Unreal Engine — making for stunning graphics overall. Generally, most drivers find the Rivian R1S’ software to be easy to navigate and well-designed — and while the Kia EV9’s infotainment system isn’t bad , it’s not as modern as the Rivian’s.
The Rivian R1S also offers seven seats.
While the EV9 is familiar and intuitive, the Rivian is more modern and innovative. While it may be a matter of personal preference, we’re handing this one to Rivian for its bold approach.
Winner: Rivian R1S Performance Under the hood, the cars have some similarities too — however one is slightly higher-performing than the other.
The Kia EV9 is available in three different variants, including two rear-wheel drive models (one with a 76.1kWh battery,and one with a 99.8kWh battery). While those won’t be quite as high-performing as the dual-motor model, they will offer a longer range. EPA range has yet to be released for the EV9, but Kia estimates that the car will offer up to around 300 miles of range. We don’t yet know how fast the EV9 accelerates.
Kia / Kia The Rivian R1S is also available in three models — however even the base model is a dual-motor AWD model that delivers zero to 60 mph in 4.5 seconds. One step up gets you the Performance Dual-Motor AWD that drops zero-to-60 time to 3.5 seconds. Finally, the Quad Motor AWD delivers a huge 835 horsepower that results zero-to 60 in 3.0 seconds. At its lowest range, the Rivian R1S will get you 260 miles of range, while the longest-range model offers 340 miles.
While we don’t know acceleration specs for the EV9, even a Kia EV6 GT is slower than a top-tier Rivian, and Rivian boasts longer range.
Winner: Rivian R1S Pricing and availability There are some differences when it comes to pricing and availability for the Kia EV9 and Rivian R1S — namely, the fact that only the Rivian R1S is currently available in the U.S.
The Kia EV9 will be coming to the U.S. soon, and it’s currently available in South Korea. When it does come to the U.S., it’s expected that the EV9 will start at around $55,000, ranging up to $70,000 — depending on the model.
Rivian The Rivian R1S is a slightly different story. The R1S is currently available to reserve, however, deliveries for newly reserved vehicles are expected to be toward the end of 2023, or the beginning of 2024. The Rivian R1S comes at a much higher price too — the base model is a relatively pricey $78,000, ranging up to $92,000 for the performance model.
Even without U.S. pricing announced, it’s clear the EV9 will be more affordable than the Rivian.
Winner: Kia EV9 Overall winner So, what’s the better electric SUV? Well, the answer is clear — the Rivian R1S. The R1S offers a more modern take on design, better software, and it comes with all-wheel drive as the default.
But it’s perhaps a slightly unfair comparison. The fact is that while the R1S may be better , it’s also a whole lot more expensive. The Kia EV9 still offers a great design overall, a solid range, and a fast-enough acceleration. Sure, you’ll have to pony up for the all-wheel drive model — but not everyone will need it.
Editors' Recommendations Rivian R1T gets estimated 410 miles of range with Dual-Motor powertrain, Max Pack battery 2021 Tesla Cybertruck vs. 2021 Rivian R1T The electric Rivian R1T pickup will be able to pull a 180 like a tank Rivian R1T electric pickup boasts 400-mile range, supercar-baiting acceleration Cars Lucid Motors has become the latest automaker to announce that it will adopt the North American Charging Standard (NACS) – also known as "the Tesla plug" – for its electric vehicles.
The move follows in the footsteps of more than a dozen other automakers that have also adopted Tesla’s charging connector, among them General Motors, Ford, Toyota, BMW, Jaguar Land Rover, Volvo, and Honda.
Cars General Motors-owned Cruise has halted production of its fully driverless vehicle -- the Origin -- just over a week after it suspended robotaxi operations nationwide following a number of troubling incidents involving its cars.
The news was announced by Cruise CEO Kyle Vogt during a meeting with staff on Monday, according to Forbes, which obtained audio of the gathering.
Cars The Ram brand is finally taking an electrified approach, and by resurrecting the Ramcharger name, no less. Alongside the new 2025 Ram 1500, the company has unveiled the new 2025 Ram 1500 Ramcharger, a new plug-in hybrid that Ram touts as offering "unlimited battery electric range." The new truck is one of a number of electrified trucks, the most well-known of which include the fully-electric Ford F-150 Lightning and the new Chevrolet Silverado EV. But instead of being fully electric, the 1500 Ramcharger is a plug-in hybrid, meaning that it has an electric motor and battery, and a gas tank and engine.
The plug-in approach It's perhaps a smart move. Electric trucks show a lot of promise -- but they start to falter a little when it comes to things like towing and hauling heavy loads. Keeping the 1500 Ramcharger a hybrid means that with no load or light ones, the truck can zip around town on electric power -- and when necessary, it can switch the engine on to tow or haul. It could well be the perfect combo for many truck owners who at least occasionally need that extra oomph, but who still could stand to save some cash -- and go a little easier on the environment - when simply driving around town.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
