Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Cars Guides Scout Motors Electric SUV: rumored price, release date, design, and more By Christian de Looper Close Volkswagen There’s another electric SUV on the way, and this one comes with a familiar name.
Volkswagen is reviving the classic Scout name for a new electric SUV that’s billed as being an “RUV,” or a rugged utility vehicle. And, it could well prove itself as the best electric SUV in its price range, when it does finally come out.
Design Interior and tech Performance Price and release date The new EV isn’t due out for quite some time, but there’s already a fair bit that we know about it. Curious to learn more? Here’s everything you need to know about the upcoming Scout SUV.
Design There’s very little we actually know about the Scout SUV so far, but we do know a little about the eventual design. A few teasers for the upcoming vehicle have been released, showing sketches of both the SUV and the accompanying pickup truck, along with what’s presumably the front of the SUV — though in a dark environment, with little detail.
The Lucid Gravity has more range than any other electric SUV Kia EV4: design, rumored pricing, release date, and more Mercedes ‘Little G’ electric G-Wagon: Rumored design, release date By the looks of it, the Scout SUV will offer a relatively boxy design with a shorter wheelbase and a minimalistic approach. It looks like it’ll be relatively tall, but short lengthwise. It’s a little hard to tell the dimensions given what the sketch looks like right now.
Volkswagen / Volkswagen Interior and tech We only know a little about the exterior of the Scout SUV — and unfortunately, we know nothing about the interior. No teasers showing the interior design of the Scout SUV have been released just yet.
We can speculate, however. Considering the car is supposed to be “rugged,” we’re expecting an interior to match — with rubberized materials and tough seating. The original was known for its plaid seats, though VW would have to be pretty bold to revive that in 2023. Hopefully, there will be a good selection of tech features too, and support for infotainment tech like CarPlay and Android Auto.
Performance The Scout SUV will be completely electric, and according to Scout CEO Scott Keogh , will be built on a new platform — and thus not the Volkswagen MEB platform that’s already in production. In other words, we know almost nothing about the performance of the SUV, though by 2026, hopefully it’ll offer a range of at least 400 miles or so.
Generally, we’re expecting at least two motors to power an all-wheel drive setup, but beyond that, we’ll have to wait and see.
Price and release date We do have some details about the price and release date of the Scout electric SUV. Volkswagen Group says that production on the vehicle will begin in 2026 — which means that it could be headed for a 2027 model year. In other words, it’ll be a few years before you can actually buy the Scout SUV.
Until then, however, some milestones will be hit. The company says that prototypes for the Scout SUV will be built in 2024, and that production will take place in the U.S. Keogh said in an interview with TechCrunch that the SUV will come in at $40,000 or “just north of there,” which would make it one of the most affordable electric SUVs on the market — though by then there will likely be far more options.
Editors' Recommendations Cadillac aims to balance its lineup with a small electric SUV Kia EV5: rumored pricing, design, range, features, and more Tesla Model 3 Highland: release date, range, design update, and more Rivian R1S vs. Kia EV9: Is the more expensive electric SUV really better? Big EVs are almost here: 7 upcoming electric SUVs we’re excited for Cars The Rivian R1T electric pickup truck has been a hugely popular first release from the new automaker. Both it and its SUV brother, the R1S, are considered among the best in their class. But they're also both relatively expensive -- the entry-level R1 starts at $73,000, putting it out of reach for many would-be buyers. Rivian, however, wants to serve the masses, and to that end has been developing its next-gen, cheaper platform, called the Rivian R2.
If Rivian ends up following its current naming scheme, the company will launch multiple R2 models. For example, it could release an R2S SUV and R2T truck, both at lower price points than Rivian's current vehicles. For now, however, the only rumored model is an R2 compact SUV -- which is the vehicle we'll be discussing here.
Cars Much of the focus in the EV world has been on striving for affordability, but there's one electric car that's going the opposite direction. The Cadillac Celestiq is built to be a head-turner, and it may serve as the EV to get for those who don't mind spending ... a lot.
The Celestiq will be unique for more reasons than just its price tag. Unlike other electric cars, the Celestiq will be built by hand to order -- and Cadillac says there's no limit to the kinds of customizations that customers will be able to make. In other words, we may soon see some very expensive, very flashy Celestiqs at some point in the future.
Cars The Electra is making a comeback. Buick has announced that it's bringing back the classic Electra -- but unlike the gas-powered Electra last seen in 1990, the new car is set to be Buick's first electric offering. The first of the new Electra models is set to be the 2025 Electra E5 SUV, a car that's powered by General Motors' Ultium platform, and should be another long-range electric car that doesn't break the bank -- at least compared to the competition.
The car has been announced, but there's still a lot we don't know about the Buick Electra. Here's everything we do know about it so far.
Buick Electra price Unfortunately, one of the things we don't yet know about the Buick Electra is its price. While Buick has released some details about the car in general, it hasn't disclosed anything about what the car will ultimately cost.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
