Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Tesla Supercharger Reset Screen in Tesla Tesla Phone Tesla Roadster Tesla Model X vs Tesla Model Y Tesla Optimus Tesla Destination Chargers Home Cars Features Tesla Model 3 vs. Hyundai Ioniq 6: Which electric sedan is best? By Christian de Looper Close There are finally some more electric sedan options. For years, the Tesla Model 3 was really the only good electric sedan that comes at a reasonable price — until, Hyundai recently launched the Ioniq 6.
 The Ioniq 6 certainly takes some cues from the larger Ioniq 5, but is smaller and sleeker, with a design seemingly inspired by the Porsche 911.
Design Interior and tech Performance Range and charging Pricing and availability Overall winner: Hyundai Ioniq 6 But the Tesla Model 3 is still clearly an excellent option for those looking for an electric car, and who don’t want a larger crossover. Which is better? Here’s a look.
Design The exterior design of the Tesla Model 3 and Hyundai Ioniq 6 is quite different. If you’ve seen a Tesla car before, then you’ll immediately recognize the Model 3 — it looks largely like a slightly different version of every other Tesla (except the Cybertruck ).
Christian de Looper / Digital Trends That, of course, isn’t necessarily a bad thing. The Model 3 offers sleek lines and a modern appearance overall, and if you like the look of other Tesla cars, you’ll like the look of the Model 3.
 It’s available in a number of colors too — though if you want any color other than Midnight Silver Metallic, you’ll have to pay extra.
Move aside, Tesla. The Hyundai Ioniq 6 is the best electric sedan for the masses Tesla’s Model 3 is reportedly heading for a redesign Hyundai launching all-electric brand, with three models on the way The Ioniq 6 is pretty sleek as well. As mentioned, the design of the car is inspired by the Porsche 911, and it shows. The car has a swooping roofline, with a small flick of a spoiler at the back, and curved lines throughout. It’s quite a good-looking car.
Winner: Tie This one is truly a matter of taste.
Interior and tech The differences between these two cars extend to their interiors. The Model 3 follows Tesla’s ethos of minimalism, offering a big 15.4-inch display in the center, and not really much else. There’s no instrument cluster, and you can barely see the air vents in the car. Everything is controlled through the center screen. The screen displays Tesla’s operating system, which is better than most other car software. The Model 3 offers other touches to the interior, like a wireless phone charger and vegan leather seats.
Tesla The interior of the Ioniq 6 is a little busier on the inside. The car offers a smaller display, coming in at 12.3 inches. That, however, is coupled with a second 12.3-inch screen that serves as the digital instrument cluster. You’ll also get capacitive buttons for the climate controls, as well as accent lighting throughout, which looks quite nice. The Ioniq 6 offers the same infotainment system as the Ioniq 5, which is relatively easy to navigate — but still not great, and not as good as Tesla’s operating system. Thankfully, however, it supports CarPlay and Android Auto.
Winner: Tie If you want a familiar layout, choose the Ioniq 6. If you want the cleanest possible aesthetic, choose the Tesla.
Performance Both the Model 3 and the Ioniq 6 are electric cars, and they’ll both offer that immediate EV response — making for a zippy driving experience overall. But they don’t quite offer the same performance.
Stephen Edelstein / Digital Trends The Tesla Model is is actually available in a few different variations. There’s the standard Model 3, which delivers a top speed of 140 miles per hour, can reach 60 mph in 5.8 seconds, and is rear-wheel drive only. Then there’s the Model 3 Long Range, which improves the acceleration to 60 mph to only 4.2 seconds and is a dual-motor car with all-wheel drive. Last but not least is the Model 3 Performance, which has a top speed of 162 mph, and reaches 60 mph in only 3.1 seconds. It’s also an all-wheel drive model. All of the models are pretty quick, however the Model 3 Performance is obviously ahead of the rest.
The Ioniq 6 is also available in a number of different models. There’s the SE Standard Range, the SE, the SEL, and the Limited. Unfortunately, Hyundai only officially quotes one 0-60 time — 5.1 seconds, for the top-spec all-wheel drive models, which deliver 320 horsepower. Safe to say, if that’s the fastest variant of the Ioniq 6, then the Model 3 is the higher-performing car overall.
Winner: Tesla Model 3 Range and charging Perhaps more important than basic performance is the range and charging tech on offer by the cars.
First, the Model 3. The range of the Model 3 varies from 272 miles for the basic rear-wheel drive model to 333 miles for the Model 3 Long Range, which has a larger battery. The Model 3 Performance boasts 315 miles of range. The Model 3 offers a charging speed of up to 250kW, and Tesla says that you’ll get 200 miles of range in 15 minutes — though that’s really only under ideal conditions.
Tesla The Ioniq 6 changes that a little. The shortest-range is the Limited model, which is an all-wheel-drive model with a smaller battery. The longest-range model, however, is the SE Long Range, which may not be all that fast, but has a range of an impressive 361 miles. That’s higher than even the longest-range Model 3. The Ioniq 6 charges superfast too. It supports charging at 350kW, which allows the car to charge from 10% to 80% in under 18 minutes — recouping 65 miles in five minutes. Again, however, this is only under ideal conditions.
Winner: Hyundai Ioniq 6 Hyundai offers both longer overall range and significantly faster charging, which makes this one no contest.
Pricing and availability Both the Model 3 and the Ioniq 6 are available for purchase right now. The Model 3 starts at $40,240 for the base model, ranging up to $53,240 for the Performance.
The Hyundai Ioniq 6, on the other hand, starts at $41,600 for the SE Standard Range model, ranging up to $52,600 for the Limited model.
The price points are very similar, but if you want the longest-range model, you’ll pay less for the Ioniq 6 SE, at $45,500, compared to $47,240 for the Model 3 Long Range.
Winner: Hyundai Ioniq 6 The difference may be small, but for the model most customers will desire, Hyundai just edges out Tesla.
Overall winner: Hyundai Ioniq 6 Both the Tesla Model 3 and the Hyundai Ioniq 6 are great cars, and should both be considered by anyone in the market for an electric sedan. I find the Ioniq 6 to be slightly more compelling, given the better range and what I find to be the sleeker design. That said, you can’t really go wrong with either the Model 3 or the Ioniq 6.
Editors' Recommendations Tesla Model Y vs. Nissan Ariya: Can Tesla take out Nissan’s electric crossover? I’m glad the Hyundai Ioniq 6 isn’t just a smaller Ioniq 5 Tesla receives massive Model 3 order from car-rental giant Hertz Tesla upgrades California-made Model 3 with a wireless charging pad, USB-C ports Tesla begins deliveries of the Model Y electric crossover Features Tesla Cars Tesla is going to great lengths to develop a high-performance Model S capable of dethroning the Porsche Taycan on Germany's grueling Nürburgring track. While the project is ongoing, and the automaker is learning as it goes, a much smaller company called Unplugged Performance has quietly specialized in tuning Tesla's electric cars since its inception in 2013. It recently built a customized Model 3 that can keep up with big-name supercars on a racetrack.
The Model 3 is extremely quick -- it hits 60 mph from a stop in just 3.2 seconds in its most potent configuration -- but it's certainly not a race car. Here's how Unplugged transformed it into one without sacrificing day-to-day usability.
Getting race ready, from the bottom up Starting with a Model 3 Performance, Unplugged tore out the suspension and replaced it with its full suite of high-performance upgrades. It also added fade-free carbon ceramic brakes and tacked on a set of sticky Michelin Pilot Sport Cup 2 tires more commonly found on octane-slurping machines like the Chevrolet Corvette ZR1. The company then installed a full body kit that includes a reshaped front bumper, side skirts, an air diffuser built into the rear bumper, and a mammoth wing on the hatch. It's not just there for looks; it keeps the car glued to the road.
Cars Tesla released its 2019 financial results Wednesday, which means it's time for some ambitious goal setting. The Silicon Valley automaker said it expects to "comfortably exceed" 500,000 deliveries in 2020. That's a big step up from 2019's total, but given the progress Tesla has made over the past few years, as well as the production capacity it's working with, that goal should be achievable.
Tesla has been steadily ramping up production since the launch of the Model 3 in 2017. The automaker said it delivered 367,500 cars in 2019 -- 50 percent more than the previous year. To reach 500,000 units, Tesla needs to build 132,500 more cars in 2020 than it did in 2019 -- an increase of 36 percent. So Tesla doesn't need as big an increase for 2020 as it already achieved in 2019. Tesla also has significant untapped production capacity.
Factory upgrades Tesla's main factory in Fremont, California, was able to build 500,000 cars a year back when it was a General Motors/Toyota joint venture making Toyota Corollas. Tesla's challenge since buying the factory has been unlocking that potential to build its own electric cars. In its 2019 financial results, Tesla said the Fremont factory now has a production capacity of 400,000 cars per year. Upgrades scheduled to finish in mid-2020 will increase capacity for the Model 3 and upcoming Model Y to 500,000 units per year, according to Tesla.
Cars Previous Next Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
