Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Tesla Supercharger Reset Screen in Tesla Tesla Phone Tesla Roadster Tesla Model X vs Tesla Model Y Tesla Optimus Tesla Destination Chargers Home Cars Features Tesla’s charger won. What EV buyers and owners need to know about NACS By Christian de Looper Close The electric vehicle space is changing, and quick. While only a few months ago the majority of EV makers used the J1772 connector for Level 2 charging, and the CCS connector for DC fast charging, in a few years that may be completely different. Why? Many of the top carmakers have announced the switch to the North American Charging Standard , or NACS — also known best as “the Tesla plug.” What is the NACS Which cars currently use the NACS connector? What charging networks currently use the NACS connector? What existing EV owners need to know Buying a new car? Is this an improvement? Curious about what this means for you? Here’s everything you need to know.
What is the NACS The NACS is a charging standard for a connector that was created by Tesla and first used on Tesla cars in 2012. The standard is also used on all Tesla charging stations, allowing Tesla drivers to charge their cars at Superchargers , Destination Chargers, and using the Tesla Wall Connector. Tesla announced that it was opening the standard up to other carmakers.
Lucid joins other automakers by adopting Tesla charging plug What it means now that Kia and Hyundai have adopted Tesla’s charging standard The Tesla Model Y is far from my favorite EV, but I’m pretty close to buying one Which cars currently use the NACS connector? Currently, all Tesla cars make use of the NACS connector, allowing Tesla drivers to charge their cars at any Tesla-branded charging station, or other charging stations with the use of an adapter.
boonchai wedmakawand/Getty Images More cars, however, are set to adopt the standard in the near future. Ford, GM, and Rivian have all announced that they’re going to adopt the NACS connector for future cars, with the first non-Tesla EVs that make use of the connector likely to roll out at the end of 2024 or the beginning of 2025. It’s likely that more carmakers will announce their own adoption of the NACS, and if the likes of Hyundai and Kia announce adoption, it’ll make the NACS the main standard in the U.S.
What charging networks currently use the NACS connector? Currently, only Tesla charging stations offer NACS. Some Superchargers allow non-Teslas to charge, but they still require an adapter. EV drivers with an adapter can, however, charge at Tesla Destination Chargers or using a Tesla Wall Connector charger.
It’s likely that as more carmakers adopt the NACS connector, more charging networks will too. Charging networks like Electrify America, ChargePoint, and more, will want to support the connectors that customers use, and while none of them have announced a switch just yet, charging equipment maker SK Signet, which makes equipment for the likes of Electrify America, has announced that it’ll support the NACS.
What existing EV owners need to know So how will the move impact existing EV owners? It depends on which car you own. If you own a Tesla, in all likelihood, things are only going to get easier for you. When charging networks start to adopt the NACS, you’ll likely be able to charge at many more locations across the country.
Christian de Looper / Digital Trends If you own a non-Tesla, with a CCS port, for example, your experience is unlikely to change much in the near term.
If third-party charging networks adopt Tesla’s standard, it will likely be a while before they start moving over their connectors. When they do, it’s likely they’ll do so in phases — offering some stations with the NACS connector, and others with the CCS connector.
After some time, you may start finding yourself in situations where an adapter may come in handy — allowing you to still charge at stations with the NACS connector. Some stations may provide this adapter, while at others, you’ll need to provide your own.
Buying a new car? If you are buying a new EV, you’re doing so at a bit of an awkward time. As North America transitions to the NACS connector, finding CCS charging ports could be increasingly difficult. But, it will be at least a year or so before non-Tesla EV manufacturers build NACS connectors into their cars, meaning that eventually you’ll be stuck with a car that has an outdated connector.
Tesla Of course, it’s important to put that into perspective a little. It will be at least a few years before it’ll start to get harder to find charging stations with CCS connectors, and even then you’ll be able to charge with an adapter. For some, it may be worth waiting a little longer to buy an electric car or buying a Tesla to ensure you have a car with what is seemingly the charging connector to win out in the U.S.
For most buyers, however, having to use a connector at some point in a few years to charge probably won’t be all that big of a deal — especially for those who mostly charge at home and can have a home charger with CCS, or an adapter permanently attached to their charger.
Is this an improvement? It may take some time, but having a unifying, single charging standard in the U.S. should hopefully make finding and using electric car chargers a whole lot easier. There is still some question as to how easy it will be for cars with the NACS connector to charge at all stations, though. For example, right now, Tesla drivers can plug in at a Tesla Supercharger and have their car automatically charge, paying for the session automatically through the card attached to their account. Hopefully, charging at all NACS-compatible stations will be that easy — but it’s doubtful.
All that said, using one single connector should make for a better experience. Hopefully, the rest of the issues involved with making charging an EV easier will get worked out too though.
Editors' Recommendations Tesla says Cybertruck resellers could face harsh penalties Honda’s electric SUV is coming soon. Here’s what we know about the 2024 Prologue The state of EV chargers in the U.S. right now: We have a long way to go Tesla’s Elon Musk can build his unusual Supercharger station Tesla launches more affordable Model S and Model X, but there’s a catch Features Tesla Cars Turns out that the Chevrolet Bolt isn't at its end. It makes sense. The Bolt certainly faced challenges, with various recalls and criticisms, but largely, it has proven itself as one of the best options for those who wanted a decent-range electric car at as low of a price as possible. That's why, despite the recalls, it was somewhat of a shock when General Motors announced that it was ending the Bolt.
That was just a fake-out, though. Between then and now, the company announced that, in fact, the Bolt will live on in a new second generation.
Cars Charging an EV from an ordinary wall outlet is like trying to fill your water bottle at an airport water fountain. It’ll get there, eventually, but you’d better not have a plane to catch. My 2019 Hyundai Ioniq PHEV required overnight charging just to reach its modest 27-mile electric range.
I endured this test of patience, and the accompanying snarl of extension cables, for years. But after looking at the crazy deals on level 2 EV chargers right now, I finally treated myself to an upgrade, and just got done installing an Autel MaxiCharger myself.
Cars EVs certainly have all of the hype in the car industry right now, but their adoption has been hampered by one major issue: public charging. Where do I charge? How fast can I charge? And how much will it cost? Going through those mental hurdles will keep folks away from making the switch to an EV -- even if the reality is that it's not as complicated as it seems.
To help accelerate the EV transition, and more importantly provide the necessary infrastructure for anyone who already has an EV, a consortium of automakers has announced a massive investment in EV chargers in North America. The group of seven major companies -- BMW, General Motors, Honda, Hyundai, Kia, Mercedes-Benz, and Stellantis -- is investing collectively in installing a whopping 30,000 EV chargers along major highways and in urban areas.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
