Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Tesla Supercharger Reset Screen in Tesla Tesla Phone Tesla Roadster Tesla Model X vs Tesla Model Y Tesla Optimus Tesla Destination Chargers Home Cars Features The Tesla Model Y is far from my favorite EV, but I’m pretty close to buying one By Christian de Looper Close I may finally be on my way toward buying my first EV. Sure, I’ve tested dozens of electric car models over the years, but despite that (or perhaps because of it), I have yet to buy one. But my family is growing, and my wife and I aren’t so sure about carting our future kids around in an aging car that lacks the safety features of modern vehicles.
Timing makes a difference Charging matters … a lot Tesla has a head start I’m picky Because of the fact that we’re expecting our kid in January, we have a bit of a deadline. So what are we leaning toward? Well, despite the fact that it’s far from my favorite EV, we may actually end up just getting a Model Y.
Timing makes a difference If the baby was coming along in a year’s time, things might be completely different. There are a few reasons for that.
Kia / Kia For starters, in a year, it’s likely that there will be a whole lot more options. In just a few months, we’re expecting the launch of the highly anticipated Kia EV9 — a vehicle that lines up with the size of car that I’m looking for. The details about the pricing of the EV9 in the U.S. have yet to be revealed.
I review EVs for a living. Here’s the one I’m waiting to buy Tesla offers two new Model Y options, though one may be a squeeze Tesla unveils $140,000 Model S Plaid that can go from 0 to 60 in under 2 seconds But when the EV9 does launch in the U.S., it may be pretty different from the EV9 of 2025. How so? Well within the next year or two, most EV manufacturers are expected to adopt the Tesla NACS charging connector — and over time, the public chargers with it. In other words, if you buy a CCS-equipped car now, you eventually may have to use adapters to charge at public stations.
Now, that’s really not a big deal. I’ll be charging at home most of the time, and can have an adapter in the car for the times that I do want to charge publicly. And, the move to NACS is going to take some time — there will be a crossover period where companies adopt both NACS and CCS. Still, I’d be lying if I said that those minor inconveniences didn’t put me off the idea of a CCS-equipped car a little.
Charging matters … a lot Along with the charging connectors is the charging network — and the Tesla Supercharger network is the best one right now. Tesla Superchargers are located across the country, in key charging areas. They’re usually pretty fast too. They don’t get as fast as the superfast 350kW Electrify America stations — but those are much less common than 250kW-capable Tesla Superchargers.
Tesla / Tesla Tesla chargers are easier to use too — simply plug in, and you’re good to go. The charger can talk to the car for payment, so if you have a payment method in the app, you don’t need to mess around with paying manually. Admittedly, the ease of use isn’t quite as important to me as the charger availability — but it still makes a difference.
Tesla has a head start Tesla has been building high-quality electric cars for much longer than anyone else. That doesn’t mean that its EVs are necessarily better than the others — especially the legacy automakers that have decades of experience in building cars in general. But it does mean one thing — it’s much easier to get a used Tesla.
Tesla’s used inventory site is filled with cars that are available with less than 50,000 miles on the odometer, and that come at a lower price than their new counterparts. A used Tesla Model Y Long Range may be a few years older than a new one, but it also costs around $12,000 less. A new one comes at $50,490 right now, while a used one is $38,200. You’ll be hard-pressed to find those kinds of discounts on any other EV — though that will likely change in the next few years.
I’m picky I want a medium-to-large electric car that’s easy to charge and doesn’t cost too much. Yeah, I’m picky. But those requirements aren’t necessarily that niche. I suspect most new electric car buyers have similar ones.
Considering the fact that right now, you can get a used Tesla within a few weeks and I don’t feel rushed to order one right now so that I’ll get one in time for January, I will likely end up waiting just a few more months to see if something better pops up. I’m not committing right now to buying a Tesla. But unless something big changes in the next few months, a shiny new (used) Model Y will likely end up in my driveway. Hopefully, next time I’m in the market, it’ll be easier to buy something else.
Editors' Recommendations Tesla Model Y vs. Nissan Ariya: Can Tesla take out Nissan’s electric crossover? Tesla receives massive Model 3 order from car-rental giant Hertz Tesla recalls nearly 10,000 Model X and Model Y vehicles Canadian cop chased a Tesla Model S that appeared to have no one in it Tesla upgrades California-made Model 3 with a wireless charging pad, USB-C ports Features Tesla Cars Tesla began deliveries of its latest electric car -- the Model Y -- on Friday the 13th.
While Tesla kicked off deliveries of previous models with great fanfare, the Model Y's launch was more low key. Instead of a flashy event and an Elon Musk speech, Tesla marked the start of Model Y deliveries with a short YouTube video. The video shows cars being assembled at Tesla's California factory, and driven around in the style of a car commercial.
Cars Tesla's time-honored habit of not sticking to the deadlines it sets will work out in the favor of Model Y buyers. The California-based automaker will begin delivering the Model Y, the latest addition to its range, on Friday the 13th.
Company co-founder and CEO Elon Musk unveiled the Model Y (pictured below) during a private event in early 2019, and he announced production would start in the fall of 2020. We're not out of winter yet, so fall isn't exactly around the corner, but Tesla fan site Electrek learned Tesla has started contacting early reservation holders to set up a delivery appointment. Future owners are sharing delivery information in real time on a Google spreadsheet.
Cars The Cybertruck received tremendous attention, as it will compete against America's most popular vehicles and it's shaped like nothing else on the road. But I think the Tesla Model Y, now due out in early 2020, is Tesla's next superstar.
I'm confident it will dethrone the Model 3 and become the company's bestseller if Tesla manages to execute a smooth launch - and the company's Q4 earnings call provided plenty of reasons to be optimistic.
Everybody loves crossovers Revealed in March 2019, the Model Y is a more spacious version of the Model 3, and a smaller alternative to the Model X, though without the unorthodox gull-wing doors.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
