Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Cars Features The Kia EV9 is coming, but you should wait to buy one. Here’s why By Christian de Looper Close Kia / Kia A big, new electric SUV is on the way — and it’s called the Kia EV9.
 Kia’s highly anticipated line topper will be big and spacious, offer a solid electric range, and will come at a lower price than much of the competition. Yeah, it’s kind of a big deal.
Follow the money Convenience is king Competition is coming So who should buy now? But while we think it might be one of the most compelling electric EVs to hit U.S. shores, would-be buyers may want to wait a little longer, if they can. Sure, the EV9 will likely be the best choice for most people who want a large SUV in its price range — but in a year or so, it’ll make an even more compelling case for itself. Here’s why.
Follow the money The EV9 is set to be one of the cheapest electric SUVs out there, when you ignore imposters like the Mustang Mach-E and EV6 , which are marketed as SUVs, but are really more crossovers. The base price of the EV9 has been announced to be $54,900. When you consider the fact that every single other large three-row electric SUV ( like the Rivian R1S ) starts at more than $80,000, the EV9 suddenly looks … cheap.
Kia EV5: rumored pricing, design, range, features, and more One of the best values in electric SUVs comes from the last brand you’d expect I review EVs for a living. Here’s the one I’m waiting to buy But it will soon get even cheaper.
The first generation of Kia EV9s will be built in South Korea and imported into the U.S., meaning that it will not qualify for the federal EV tax credit of up to $7,500. Kia, however, has said that it will start building the car at its new Georgia assembly plant starting in 2024.
Kia / Kia To be clear, there’s no guarantee that it’ll qualify for the tax credit when it does enter production in the U.S. Kia will have to make sure that production meets a series of requirements. And though the base model of the EV9 will likely qualify, you’ll need to stack on options carefully. SUVs over $80,000 do not qualify for the credit, and we’re pretty certain that you’ll be able to configure an EV9 over that amount. Full pricing for all models of the EV9 in the U.S. has yet to be revealed.
On top of the tax credit, when the car does start production in Georgia, it’s entirely possible that it’ll start at a lower price too, considering the fact that Kia won’t have to import it into the U.S. That, however, is purely speculation, and the other side of that argument is that Kia may want to keep prices higher to recoup the cost of building the plant in the first place.
To be safe, let’s say that it remains the same starting price — but does qualify for the tax credit. After you file your tax return and actually get the credit, the total will come out to $47,400. That’s very affordable for a car like this.
Convenience is king There’s another reason you may want to hold off a little. The first-generation Kia EV9 in the U.S. will come equipped with a CCS charging port. This is the charging connector that’s found at charging stations like Electrify America right now. But the charging world in the U.S. is changing – and quick. Tesla has opened up its NACS charging connector, and Hyundai (Kia’s parent company) recently announced it will begin shipping cars with the connector in the fourth quarter of 2024. Kia’s timeline may not precisely match, but it’s sure to be close behind. Many charging networks have also announced that they’ll start the (very) long transition away from CCS and toward NACS.
That means that if you buy an EV9 now, slowly but surely, it’ll be harder to find a charging connector for your car.
Tesla / Tesla To be clear, it won’t be that much harder. All you’ll need to do is keep a CCS to NACS adapter in your car to be able to charge at NACS stations. Currently, Tesla has opened up only a handful of stations to non-Tesla cars, and Hyundai and Kia cars don’t seem to be able to connect to Tesla’s newer V3 stations. More stations are expected to become available between May and June of 2024.
But if you don’t want to have to use an adapter at charging stations in a few years (an admittedly small issue), it may be worth waiting until the end of 2024.
Competition is coming What if the Kia EV9 isn’t the only affordable large-format electric SUV out there? That question will likely be answered pretty soon.
Rivian The fact is that big cars are king in North America, and manufacturers are racing to launch their own. This will breathe new life into the competition of electric SUVs.
Hyundai itself is launching a model soon, called the Ioniq 7. This will likely take a little longer to ship to the U.S., considering the fact that only a concept has been announced so far. On top of that, however, we’re expecting a cheaper Rivian SUV, more electric options from Ford, and so on. You may have to wait a few years, but you’ll soon have many more electric SUV options.
So who should buy now? None of this necessarily means that buying now is a terrible idea. After all, when the Kia EV9 does launch in the U.S., it will be one of the few options out there. If you need a new large car, want something all-electric, can afford to spend the cash, and don’t mind the fact that you may need to use an adapter at charging stations in a few years, then the Kia EV9 is still worth buying. That’s especially true if you really can’t wait to buy. If you need a car, you need a car.
But, if you can wait, and any of the issues outlined here are issues for you, it’s absolutely worth waiting a little. The 2025 Kia EV9 will likely be even more compelling than the 2024 model.
Editors' Recommendations Kia EV3: Release date, performance, range, and more I can’t wait for the electric Range Rover — here’s why I agonized over EVs but bought a gas car instead. Here’s why I couldn’t be happier Kia makes one of the best car infotainment systems out there. Here’s why it works Kia EV6 vs. Niro EV: Why you’re better off paying more Features Cars “Whoa.” That’s the actual word that escaped my lips when I first engaged Sport mode on the EV6. It could be used to describe most of my experience with the vehicle during a first drive event, though.
Kia’s move from entry-level car maker to mid-market darling with the help of the Telluride SUV continues with its latest offering. The EV6 showcases the evolution of not only the brand, but its EV offerings. The EV6 is a larger-than-you-expect vehicle that Kia calls a CUV (Crossover Utility Vehicle) with the space of an SUV and the driving stance of a sedan. Everything about it is more than you anticipate.
News CES is chock-full of new product announcements every year, but unfortunately, most of them are just that: Announcements. Tech companies come out, loudly proclaim that their latest gadget will transform your life, and then quietly mutter that it won't actually be available until some yet-t0-be-determined point in the next year. As such, most of what we see at CES in a given year ends up being annoyingly unattainable.
But thankfully, not everyone at CES shows up with a booth full of flashy promises. A rare few of them come to the show with products that are ready to ship right away, immediately after they're revealed. So as a tip of our hat to those thoughtful few who go the extra mile to provide us the instant gratification we crave, we've rounded up all the best CES gear that you can buy right now. Everything on this list will ship before the end of January, if not sooner. Enjoy! TCL's gargantuan, 95-inch 4K QLED TV Cars The next-generation Kia Soul EV electric car won't go on sale in the United States for the 2020 model year, as originally stated by Kia. The U.S. launch has been pushed back until the 2021 calendar year at the earliest, according to Green Car Reports, which cites a Kia spokesperson.
When the third-generation Kia Soul was unveiled in November 2018 at the Los Angeles Auto Show, both gasoline and all-electric versions were shown. But while the gasoline Soul is now on sale in the U.S., the Soul EV has been held up. The car, which is already on sale in Europe, was originally expected to hit U.S. showrooms in the spring of 2019. U.S. buyers will now have to wait roughly two years, although even the 2021 target date is subject to change, according to Green Car Reports. Limited production capacity is causing the delay.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
