Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Tesla Supercharger Reset Screen in Tesla Tesla Phone Tesla Roadster Tesla Model X vs Tesla Model Y Tesla Optimus Tesla Destination Chargers Home Cars Guides 2023 Tesla Roadster: Everything we know about the electric car By Christian de Looper Close Teslas are already known for being sleek and fast, but there’s an even sleeker and even faster model on the way — Tesla is reviving the beloved Telsa Roadster. The original Tesla Roadster was the company’s first car and was essentially a Tesla powertrain in the body of a Lotus Elise. But the new Roadster is its own thing — and it’s been designed from the ground up.
2023 Tesla Roadster design 2023 Tesla Roadster performance 2023 Tesla Roadster price and release date The new car was first announced as a concept all the way back in 2017 and was originally set to be available starting in 2020. That, obviously, didn’t happen. But that doesn’t mean we’ve forgotten about what’s set to be the coolest Tesla yet. Here’s everything you need to know about what we now hope is the 2023 Tesla Roadster.
2023 Tesla Roadster design The 2023 Tesla Roadster is set to be the most stylish Tesla yet, at least based on the concepts we’ve seen so far. It’ll have an aerodynamic two-door coupe design and a low center of gravity, giving it a sporty and modern look. The car will come with four seats, allowing for more passengers than the original Roadster’s two-seater setup, however, we’re not expecting the rear two seats to be particularly roomy. The car will also have more aggressive styling than the previous model and 19-inch wheels.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The interior design of the 2023 Tesla Roadster will also get a number of tweaks compared to previous Teslas. It’ll feature an all-new dashboard and center console, as well as improved materials, and comforts like heated seats and a panoramic roof. Unlike previous Teslas, the Roadster will seemingly offer a display built into the center console, rather than a floating display. Like some of Tesla’s other cars, the Roadster may get a yoke instead of a traditional steering wheel, though that may also come as an option.
The best electric cars you can buy in 2023 Tesla recalls electric Semi truck just months after launch Tesla used car market no longer as lucrative, data shows 2023 Tesla Roadster performance Performance-wise, the 2023 Tesla Roadster will be a beast. It’s set to have an impressive zero-to-60 time of 1.9 seconds from its three electric motors and a top speed of 250 mph, though that’ll likely be limited for safety reasons. The car will also have a range of 620 miles on a single charge, making it the longest-range electric vehicle in production.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The final piece of the puzzle is Autopilot, Tesla’s semi-autonomous driving system. The company hasn’t officially announced whether or not it’ll be available on the Roadster, but it’s likely that it will be included in some form. It remains to be seen whether Autopilot will be included by default, or if it’ll be an optional extra.
2023 Tesla Roadster price and release date While the Tesla Roadster was originally announced in 2017 with a planned release date of 2020, that window has come and gone. At this point, we’re expecting the car to be released sometime in 2023. As for the price, it’s expected to start at around $200,000, though if you buy the car with options and performance upgrades, then it could easily cost more than that.
Of course, by the time the Roadster does eventually come out, other electric cars may have taken its place as the fastest or longest-range, and plenty of other companies have committed to releasing their own high-performance electric cars. But the Tesla Roadster will likely still be one of the most impressive EVs out there, and a great option for those who want speed and range without having to sacrifice style.
Editors' Recommendations The fastest electric cars, ranked by 0-60 mph acceleration The cheapest electric cars you can buy 10 electric cars with the longest range Elon Musk delivers Tesla’s first all-electric Semi truck Tesla to fix window software on 1M of its U.S. cars Tesla Cars Tesla boss Elon Musk has said the 500-mile-range version of the company’s all-electric Semi truck will start shipping before the end of this year.
The launch date is earlier than expected after the CEO said in January that the company wouldn’t be introducing any new vehicles this year, suggesting that the truck would land some time in 2023.
Cars Tesla boss Elon Musk has flown to Germany to present customers with the first Model Y vehicles built at the automaker’s new Giga Berlin plant -- its first car factory in Europe.
Musk tweeted that he’ll be handing over the production cars to the new owners at a special event at the site on Tuesday, March 22.
Cars Rivian has joined the list of carmakers old and new who want to end Ford's 39-year reign over America's sales chart. While it's not a household name, at least not yet, it became the first company to release a mass-produced electric pickup in the United States. Sure, there have been others: Ford built an electric Ranger in the 1990s as a bit of an experiment. This is different: Rivian is aiming for volume.
The R1T is a four-door, five-seater model developed with adventurers and nature lovers in mind. It's closer in spirit to a Jeep Gladiator that you might see on a trail in Moab than to a Ford F-350 your utility company might use. It's new from the ground up, and it looks like one of the most attractive entries into this burgeoning segment -- Digital Trends put it through its paces on and off the pavement and walked away seriously impressed. Production has finally started so we're taking a look at what it is, what it does, how much it costs, and what's next.
What is it? Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
