Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Cars Guides Are used EVs eligible for tax rebates? Yes, but here’s the fine print By Christian de Looper Close EVs are great, but like any new technology still in its infancy, they can get pricey. For anything that’s not a Chevrolet Bolt EV or similar, you’re looking at spending at least $40,000. For most Americans, that immediately puts a decent EV out of budget. That’s also where tax incentives and other rebates come in — as a way to help customers afford electric vehicles.
Are used EVs eligible for rebates? What are the conditions for a used EV rebate? How can I claim the used EV rebate? But what about used EVs? Are they still eligible for those credits and rebates? Are used EVs eligible for rebates? Some used electric vehicles and some plug-in hybrids are indeed eligible for rebates, albeit at a lower rate than their brand-new counterparts. As of January 1, 2023, purchasers of used EVs can benefit from a tax credit of up to $4,000, which can significantly offset the cost of acquisition. This incentive is part of the government’s effort to accelerate the adoption of electric vehicles and reduce the carbon footprint of the transportation sector. By offering tax credits for used EVs, the government aims to make them more affordable and accessible for a broader range of consumers, including those who might not otherwise have the means to buy a new EV.
Which cars still qualify for the $7,500 EV tax credit? Here’s the full list What EV tax credits and rebates are available in my state? Elon Musk reveals how non-Tesla EVs will use Superchargers However, it’s important to note that the $4,000 tax credit for used EVs is subject to certain conditions and restrictions, which may vary depending on the specific vehicle model. We’ll get into those conditions below.
What are the conditions for a used EV rebate? Christian de Looper / Digital Trends One of the primary conditions for a used EV or plug-in hybrid to qualify for a rebate is its age. To be eligible, the vehicle must be at least two model years old. This requirement helps ensure that the incentive is directed toward genuinely used vehicles and not simply showroom models or those with minimal use.
Another condition for a used EV to qualify for a rebate is the capacity of its battery. The vehicle must be equipped with a battery that has a capacity of at least 7 kilwatt-hours.
 To be eligible for the rebate, the vehicle must be sold by a licensed dealer.
There are also several other important conditions that must be met for a used EV to qualify for a rebate. The vehicle cannot have already been used to claim this specific tax credit, and it must be sold for less than $25,000.
You can also only claim the credit if the company has filed the paperwork for that particular model. You’ll want to check with the manufacturer if the model qualifies.
There are personal conditions that you’ll also have to meet. Notably, you can only take advantage of this credit once every three years, though given it’s a new program, everyone is eligible as of January 1, 2023. Also, you can’t have a modified adjusted income of greater than $75,000 for single filers, $112,500 for heads of household, and $150,000 for joint filers.
Depending on all of these conditions, you may qualify for a full or partial used EV tax credit (related: ERTC Credit ).
How can I claim the used EV rebate? To claim the used EV tax credit, you’ll need to file IRS Form 8936 with the tax return for the year that you purchased the vehicle. You’ll need to include information like the Vehicle Identification Number (VIN) on the form.
Editors' Recommendations Big EVs are almost here: 7 upcoming electric SUVs we’re excited for Ford EV drivers can use 12,000 Tesla Superchargers starting in 2024 Tesla used car market no longer as lucrative, data shows Cars Lucid Motors has become the latest automaker to announce that it will adopt the North American Charging Standard (NACS) – also known as "the Tesla plug" – for its electric vehicles.
The move follows in the footsteps of more than a dozen other automakers that have also adopted Tesla’s charging connector, among them General Motors, Ford, Toyota, BMW, Jaguar Land Rover, Volvo, and Honda.
Cars General Motors-owned Cruise has halted production of its fully driverless vehicle -- the Origin -- just over a week after it suspended robotaxi operations nationwide following a number of troubling incidents involving its cars.
The news was announced by Cruise CEO Kyle Vogt during a meeting with staff on Monday, according to Forbes, which obtained audio of the gathering.
Cars The Ram brand is finally taking an electrified approach, and by resurrecting the Ramcharger name, no less. Alongside the new 2025 Ram 1500, the company has unveiled the new 2025 Ram 1500 Ramcharger, a new plug-in hybrid that Ram touts as offering "unlimited battery electric range." The new truck is one of a number of electrified trucks, the most well-known of which include the fully-electric Ford F-150 Lightning and the new Chevrolet Silverado EV. But instead of being fully electric, the 1500 Ramcharger is a plug-in hybrid, meaning that it has an electric motor and battery, and a gas tank and engine.
The plug-in approach It's perhaps a smart move. Electric trucks show a lot of promise -- but they start to falter a little when it comes to things like towing and hauling heavy loads. Keeping the 1500 Ramcharger a hybrid means that with no load or light ones, the truck can zip around town on electric power -- and when necessary, it can switch the engine on to tow or haul. It could well be the perfect combo for many truck owners who at least occasionally need that extra oomph, but who still could stand to save some cash -- and go a little easier on the environment - when simply driving around town.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
