Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Cars Guides Products The best used car websites in 2023 By Ronan Glon and Christian de Looper Close EVs are selling like hotcakes, and as such, it can feel like it’s a little hard to get your hands on one. Add in the fact that most of the decent EVs cost more than $40,000, and you might find that a used car is more compelling than ever. Shopping used is a great alternative to long waiting lists and inflated prices, and a used EV may even be eligible for tax rebates if you read the fine print.
AutoTrader CarsDirect Carvana Hemmings Autolist CarGurus AutoTempest Kelley Blue Book Cars & Bids Car-enthusiast forums But where should you look to find one? The best used car sites offer a user-friendly interface that provides shoppers with comprehensive details about the car they’re looking at, like high-resolution photos showing the interior and the exterior, its service history, plus its standard and optional equipment. Some even use historical data to tell you if you’re looking at a great deal, or if the price isn’t quite fair.
We’ve put together a list of the classifieds and auction sites you should browse when shopping for your next used car online. Alternatively, if you’re buying new, automakers and dealers are increasingly making the buying process digital.
The best electric cars you can buy in 2023 Pros and cons of buying a used electric car Aska’s ludicrous SUV-sized flying car gets closer to reality at CES 2023 Further reading How to sell your car Best cars for teens Best used cars under $15,000 These sites are useful, but remember that it’s always wise to check out a used car in person (and, if possible, take it for a thorough test drive) before you hand over a big wad of your hard-earned cash.
AutoTrader The best well-known site Image used with permission by copyright holder Few sites surpass AutoTrader when it comes to advanced search tools. Like most sites on our list, AutoTrader’s initial search lets you choose the make, model, and price of your desired used cars. It also lets you filter your results based on fuel economy and a host of other parameters. Do you want a car with an intuitive navigation system? How about a sedan with four doors and keyless entry? Tick the options you need and let the results come to you.
CarsDirect The best site for the basics Image used with permission by copyright holder Simple and straightforward, CarsDirect is all about the basics. You can search for used cars within a specific area based on body style, price, make, and model. Search results include offerings from both dealers and private owners, with an option to view your desired car’s Carfax report. When you find what you’re after, you can submit an inquiry about it to receive more details from the seller or request special financing if needed. CarsDirect provides links to car dealers’ websites, as well as comprehensive maps with directions to each store’s location.
Carvana Most convenient used car site Image used with permission by copyright holder If you’re looking for the most convenient end-to-end used-car-buying experience, then Carvana is the way to go. Carvana is known for its massive car vending machines and for dropping off cars right to your door, making it perhaps the best choice for those who don’t want to trek long distances to get a new car. In fact, Carvana will deliver cars right to your door, if you live in the U.S. If you sell on Carvana, the process is also incredibly convenient — Carvana will pick up the car you’re trying to sell, straight from your door.
Hemmings The best site for classic car lovers Image used with permission by copyright holder Hemmings is a classic car collector’s dream. The site is a blast from the past, reveling in everything from 1960s Chevrolet Impalas to Studebakers from the 1930s to newer classics from the 1980s, while offering tools for locating specific parts and services pertaining to a car you already own. It publishes a daily newsletter, a fascinating blog that’s regularly updated by a team of knowledgeable writers, and several other resources aimed at the classic car owner. It even touts an online store where you can buy die-cast models, books, or wall calendars.
Autolist The best site for browsing on the go Image used with permission by copyright holder Autolist may look similar to other sites here at first glance, but it has a leg up on the competition when it comes to mobile connectivity. Although the Autolist website is attractive and easy to use, it’s the accompanying mobile app for Android and iOS that makes it a standout. The intuitive software allows you to quickly scour the databases of other shopping apps, as well as various dealer websites. It also provides helpful information, such as how long the vehicle has been on sale, how its asking price has fluctuated over time, and what its Carfax report looks like. If you prefer to shop for your next ride on the move, this is the resource for you.
CarGurus The best site for finding a bargain Image used with permission by copyright holder If you’re looking for a bargain, CarGurus is your best bet. It ranks ads based on dealer reputation, when applicable, and price. The site goes a step further to educate buyers with information about a vehicle’s market value. That way, you’ll know whether now is the best time to shop or if you need to expand your search area. You can also see how long a vehicle has been listed on the site and how its list price has changed over time. This gives you negotiating power on cars that have been listed for a while, or lets you know when it’s too soon to ask for a price cut.
AutoTempest The best site for cross-site comparisons Image used with permission by copyright holder If you’ve ever used sites like Kayak or Sky Scanner, AutoTempest will be right up your alley. The site combines search results from eBay Motors, Cars.com, AutoTrader, CarsDirect, and others, casting an all-encompassing net over a smattering of other used car sites on our list. AutoTempest’s homepage also features buying guides, checklists, and advice, as well as tips on negotiating and how to avoid purchasing a lemon, among other topics. The site provides specific guides for a selection of makes and models, along with car reviews and a compilation of frequently asked questions. And, it saves search results for easy access later, while offering suggestions for top-notch shipping services.
Kelley Blue Book The best site for an all-inclusive experience Image used with permission by copyright holder The Kelley Blue Book is a car buyer’s best friend. It provides accurate estimates of what your car is worth, how much you should pay for a used car, and a deep selection of used and new car listings. You can browse top picks and tips, calculate a monthly car payment, and compare several cars. Expert and consumer reviews are also available, along with options for finding local dealers and checking your credit score. You can browse an assortment of awards pages, too, giving you a way to quickly peruse the best of the best.
Cars & Bids The best auction site for enthusiasts Image used with permission by copyright holder Launched by Doug DeMuro in the summer of 2020, Cars & Bids quickly became the go-to destination for enthusiasts looking to buy or sell a car. If you want a 2018 Corolla, you won’t find it on this platform. If you’re after something a little bit more special, like a low-mileage Mercedes-Benz E63 AMG or a one-year-only BMW L6, the site has you covered. Each auction includes a full gallery of the car (including close-ups and service records when they’re available) and a thorough description that highlights its main features, its ownership history, and its known flaws. Carfax is included as well. Many sellers include videos, too, which takes some of the stress out of buying a car sight unseen.
Car-enthusiast forums Image used with permission by copyright holder Although it’s easy to search by make, model, and year using any of the aforementioned sites, there’s no harm in concentrating your search. If you’re looking for something specific, don’t be afraid to check out the online car owner and enthusiast groups associated with what you’re seeking. If using Google, tack on “forums” or “owners club” to whichever vehicle you’re searching for. Whether you’re seeking vintage Porsches or cars from the late AMC brand, there’s a community for almost every vehicle out there — even unloved ones. Browsing the classifieds section on these sites increases your chances of finding what you’re looking for. Plus, most of the listings are from experts who not only know what they are selling but are also invested in not getting a bad name in their respective communities.
Editors' Recommendations Best electric car charger deals: $100 off home charging stations Best used EVs: get an electric car without paying full price The best iPhone car mounts in 2023: top 10 best ones you can buy Tesla used car market no longer as lucrative, data shows Every car compatible with Apple CarPlay Web Cars General Motors on Wednesday announced an online used-car sales platform called CarBravo. Scheduled to launch this spring, GM says it will offer a transparent and streamlined buying experience.
CarBravo will pull from dealership inventories and a "national central stock" of used vehicles that will include non-GM models, according to a company press release. All vehicles will be "inspected and reconditioned to meet standards set by GM," according to the automaker, and will get some form of warranty coverage. SiriusXM satellite radio and OnStar telematics trials will also be available in applicable vehicles.
Audio / Video The Amazon Music app for iOS and Android now comes with an optional car mode that offers up a simplified interface that can automatically launch as soon as you connect to your car's Bluetooth system.
It looks like the ideal solution for those who don't have an infotainment system that's compatible with Apple CarPlay or Android Auto but want to stream music from Amazon Music while driving. According to an email from Amazon's PR partner, the new feature was designed "to limit extensive browsing while driving." Curiously, however, on the webpage that promotes car mode, Amazon warns its customers that they should not "interact with this app while operating your vehicle." Which naturally raises the question: Why give the app a car mode at all? Cars Long miles are often put on commuter cars, making drivers want a vehicle that is both fuel-efficient and fun to drive. While big SUVs might be enticing for a weekend trip to the mountains, a commuter car is best when it's compact and packed with plenty of comfort and tech features.
While Honda dominates our picks for the best overall commuter cars, we also suggest some sporty and luxury options to make sure there’s a choice for everyone. Check out our favorite commuter car if you have a little extra money to spend below.
Honda Civic Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
