Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Tesla Supercharger Reset Screen in Tesla Tesla Phone Tesla Roadster Tesla Model X vs Tesla Model Y Tesla Optimus Tesla Destination Chargers Home Cars Guides BMW i4 vs. Tesla Model 3: Which EV sedan is better? By Christian de Looper Close The BMW i4 and Tesla Model 3 are two of the hottest electric cars on the market today. Both vehicles offer a range of features designed to make driving easy and efficient, as well as attractive styling. But each has its advantages and disadvantages, and there is much that sets them apart in terms of performance, technology, convenience, and cost.
Design Interior and tech Performance Pricing and availability Conclusions Deciding between the two? That’s why we’ve put together this guide. Here are the differences and similarities between the Tesla Model 3 and BMW i4, and why you might want one over the other.
Design Ronan Glon Take one glance at these cars side by side, and the aesthetic differences become immediately obvious. The Tesla Model 3 looks … like a Tesla. It has a sleek, modern look that’s distinct from most other cars on the road, and that’s similar to the overall design of Tesla’s other cars (except for the upcoming CyberTruck). Some argue that the design is starting to get a little tired, given the design language has been in use by Tesla since the Model S was first launched in 2012. Others still love the way it looks.
Tesla Model 3 vs. Tesla Model Y: Bigger or cheaper? Tesla Model 3 maintenance costs: What can you expect? Tesla’s Model 3 is reportedly heading for a redesign The BMW i4 has a more traditional design, with curved lines and classic styling. You won’t mistake it for anything other than a BMW, thanks to the signature kidney grille and the iconic BMW logo. That kidney grille, of course, has been controversial, considering how big it has become over the past two years. I personally don’t mind it anymore, but others may disagree. Of course, there are a few different models of BMW i4, and they offer slight tweaks to design — but those mostly boil down to accents and wheels.
So is one design better? Not really. It all depends on personal preference.
Interior and tech Tesla The interiors of these cars are pretty different too. The Tesla Model 3 has a minimalistic design, with a large central display that controls just about every aspect of the car. It also has a few physical buttons and knobs in certain areas, like on the steering wheel, but the screen is mostly how you’ll control different aspects of the car.
The BMW i4’s interior is much more traditional, with proper physical buttons and knobs for controlling various aspects, as well as a large display that is connected to the navigation system. It’s much more driver-focused, but it does take some getting used to if you’re accustomed to Tesla’s minimalist design. BMW’s interior also feels more premium, with more comfortable seats and more luxurious highlights. That doesn’t mean it’s better though — many prefer the Tesla’s minimalism.
While some may not love the fact that the Model 3 is controlled largely through the touch screen, Tesla has at least done a good job at developing its software. The Tesla Model 3 has one of the best in-car operating systems out there, with a smooth and intuitive user interface. It also offers features like over-the-air updates, which allow you to get new features and bug fixes without having to go to the dealership.
The BMW i4 is much more traditional in its approach to tech. BMW’s iDrive platform has gotten better over the years, but it’s still not as well-designed or as intuitive as Tesla’s software. Thankfully, you can use CarPlay and Android Auto , so you don’t really have to interact with the BMW software if you don’t want to.
Performance Ronan Glon The Tesla Model 3 is the clear winner when it comes to performance. It’s available with a range of different battery sizes and motor configurations, so you can get a version that suits your needs. The most powerful variant, the Performance model, has two motors that allow it to accelerate from 0-60 in just 3.1 seconds, making it one of the quickest cars on the market. The base model isn’t quite as quick, with one motor that can get it from 0-60 in 5.8 seconds. The base model has a range of 272 miles, while the performance model steps that up to 315 miles. Tesla isn’t currently selling the so-called Long Range model, but that could change soon.
The BMW i4 is no slouch either. There are a number of different BMW i4 models to consider. There’s the BMW i4 eDrive35, which can accelerate to 60 in 5.8 seconds, the i4 eDrive 40, which gets there in 5.5 seconds, and the sportier i4 M50, which gets to 60 miles per hour in only 3.7 seconds. The range varies from 270 miles on the M50 to 335 on the eDrive40.
No matter which car you get, you’ll get that zip and pace that electric cars are known for. You’ll also get a decent range — though those really worried about range should consider getting either the Model 3 Performance or the BMW i4 eDrive40.
Pricing and availability Tesla / Tesla The Tesla Model 3 starts at around $40,390, while the top-spec Performance model costs around $56,390. The BMW i4 starts at a much higher price of $51,400 for the eDrive35, and goes up to $67,300 for the top-of-the-line M50 variant, though options could push that price even higher.
As for availability, the Tesla Model 3 is much more widely available than the BMW i4. You can find a Tesla in pretty much any state, whereas the BMW i4 is currently only sold in some states, and you may have to wait for your local dealership to stock it.
Conclusions So which is better? Ultimately, it depends on what you’re looking for in an electric car. The Tesla Model 3 offers a slick and minimalist design, great performance, and good value for money, at least as far as EVs go. The BMW i4 has more traditional interior styling and looks more like a BMW on the outside, plus its performance is almost as good when you consider the range of different models available.
If you want a traditional-looking car with excellent electric performance, go for the BMW, but if good software and a more modern design are your thing, the Model 3 is a great car.
Editors' Recommendations Tesla Model 3 Highland: release date, range, design update, and more Volkswagen ID.4 vs Tesla Model Y Tesla Model X vs. Tesla Model Y: Range, speed, price, and other specs compared Tesla receives massive Model 3 order from car-rental giant Hertz BMW i4 brings the ultimate driving machine into EV territory Tesla Cars Tesla's Model S and Model 3 are both electric and packed with cutting-edge technology. While they overlap in some areas, they're completely different cars that share very few common parts. The S is much older, considerably bigger, and a lot more expensive than the 3, which likely explains why it's outsold by its smaller sibling.
Here's how Tesla's two sedans compare on paper.
Cars Going electric doesn’t require a vehicle from Tesla. While the folks at Tesla offer an impressive set of features in the Model 3, including a range of up to 353 miles, the near $38,000 starting price can be quite intimidating. Beyond the sticker price itself, some consumers may be concerned about repeated Tesla quality control concerns or are simply not fans of the company’s more minimalist interior and exterior design. We’ve compiled a list of alternative vehicles that you can check out when you're ready to hit the road in a new electric vehicle but don’t want Elon Musk as your copilot.
Hyundai Ioniq Electric 2020 Beyond Tesla, manufacturers of electric vehicles seem to have little interest in producing sedan offerings. However, if you’re dead-set on selecting a vehicle that looks somewhat like a sedan, even though it’s technically a hatchback, take a look at the Ioniq Electric from Hyundai. Starting at around $33,000, the Ioniq Electric has a range of up to 170-miles. The higher-end Limited trim offers a healthy selection of technology-focused features, including a 10.25-inch touchscreen, wireless device charging, Android Auto and Apple CarPlay, a 7-inch LCD gauge cluster, and Highway Drive Assist. While the Hyundai doesn’t get quite the mileage that the Tesla Model 3 can achieve, the Ioniq Electric still offers enough range for short and medium-range trips -- long-range adventures will need some extra charging stops.
Chevy Bolt EV 2020 Cars Nothing lasts forever, and the reign of the Tesla Model S is no exception. It’s been the best all-around, all-electric large sedan since its debut in 2012, but that's mostly because it was the only one in its class until the Taycan came racing out of Porsche’s production line last year. But now, there's an American rival: The Lucid Air.
If the Air is as good as it looks on paper, the Model S will have to take a knee to the new king. We won’t know until the Air hits the production line and is tested next year, though. Until then, we can only speculate based on the information we received from its September 9 reveal. Below, we compare both electric vehicles (EVs) with the information we have on the Lucid Air so far. Will Tesla continue its dominance? Decide for yourself.
Tech features Lucid Air Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
