Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Cars Guides 2025 Buick Electra: rumored price, release date, range, and more By Christian de Looper Close The Electra is making a comeback. Buick has announced that it’s bringing back the classic Electra — but unlike the gas-powered Electra last seen in 1990, the new car is set to be Buick’s first electric offering.
 The first of the new Electra models is set to be the 2025 Electra E5 SUV, a car that’s powered by General Motors’ Ultium platform, and should be another long-range electric car that doesn’t break the bank — at least compared to the competition.
Buick Electra price Buick Electra release date Buick Electra colors and models Buick Electra charging speed and range Buick Electra performance Buick Electra tech features Buick Electra tax credit status Our Buick Electra wishlist The car has been announced, but there’s still a lot we don’t know about the Buick Electra. Here’s everything we do know about it so far.
Buick Electra price Unfortunately, one of the things we don’t yet know about the Buick Electra is its price. While Buick has released some details about the car in general, it hasn’t disclosed anything about what the car will ultimately cost.
Kia EV4: design, rumored pricing, release date, and more Mercedes ‘Little G’ electric G-Wagon: Rumored design, release date Rivian R2 compact SUV: Rumored price, release date, design, and more That said, we can make some estimates. It’s largely expected that the 2025 Buick Electra E5 will start at around $50,000, with the price ranging up from there depending on the model and options.
Buick Electra release date We have a slightly better idea of the car’s release date compared to its price — but specifics are still unknown. We know that the car will be released in late 2024 as a 2025 model year car, however, we don’t yet know how late in 2025.
Buick Electra colors and models Buick While we don’t know what kinds of models and colors the Electra will come in, we can speculate based on Buick’s current lineup. If Buick follows its current trends, it’ll offer an Electra E5 in “Preferred,” “Essence,” and “Avenir” trims, in order of price and features from low to high.
Of course, that’s just the naming scheme though — as for what kinds of features the different models have, we’ll still have to wait and see.
The same goes for colors. Buick has released concept images of an Electra E5 in a light metallic blue, but it remains to be seen if that color will end up being available — and what other colors it’ll come in.
Buick Electra charging speed and range Once again, we have yet to learn much about the charging speed and range for the Electra E5 specifically — but we can glean some details from the fact that we know that the car will be built on the General Motors Ultium platform.
Buick That’s the same platform that the Cadillac Lyriq is built on, and the Lyriq gets up to 312 miles of range, and charges at up to 190kW, which means it can add 76 miles of range in around 10 minutes. It’s expected that the Electra will offer similar numbers.
Buick Electra performance Buick has yet to reveal details about the performance of the Buick Electra, but again, as a car built on the Ultium platform, it may offer similar performance to the Lyriq. The rear-wheel drive Lyriq can get from 0 to 60 miles per hour in 5.7 seconds, while the all-wheel drive model reaches speed in 4.6 seconds. It’s likely that the Electra will offer similar numbers, but again, that remains to be seen.
Buick Electra tech features Buick Buick has released an interior image of the Electra, which shows a comfortable interior and a huge 30-inch display that stretches across the dash for both instrument information and infotainment. The curved screen will likely support both Apple CarPlay and Android Auto, however, the car will also likely have a 5G Wi-Fi hotspot. Further features, we’ll likely find out about at a later date.
Buick Electra tax credit status We don’t even really know where the Electra will be manufactured yet. We do know that Buick will manufacture a model for the Chinese market in China, though it’s unclear if the North American model will be made here, or imported. If it’s imported, it’s unlikely it will qualify for the federal EV tax credit.
Our Buick Electra wishlist Buick We’re hoping that the Buick Electra E5 can come in at a little less than the current $50,000 expected price tag, considering the fact that there are more and more competitors that are offering decent electric cars at those lower prices. We’re also hoping that the base model of the car can get close to that 300-mile range, with higher-end models potentially offering more.
Other things on our wishlist are pretty much on our wishlist for every car. Hopefully, as an SUV, the interior will be nice and spacious and the car will feel sporty when you’re behind the wheel.
We’ll update this article as we hear more about the Buick Electra and what it has to offer.
Editors' Recommendations Kia EV5: rumored pricing, design, range, features, and more Tesla Model 3 Highland: release date, range, design update, and more Scout Motors Electric SUV: rumored price, release date, design, and more 2024 Cadillac Celestiq EV: Rumored price, range, specs, and more Volvo EX30 price, range, release date, specs, and more Cars First introduced in 2019, the Tesla Cybertruck is unlike any pickup we've ever seen. It's electric, which isn't entirely unusual, and frankly expected from Tesla, but its futuristic design makes it stand out from everything else on the road. Whether that's a good or a bad thing is a matter of personal preference, and keep in mind we haven't seen the final, production-bound version yet. Tesla often makes tweaks to its cars before production, however, we may not have to wait long -- as Tesla says the truck will finally start shipping later this year.
In the meantime, we're taking a look at what it is, what it does, how much it will cost, and when cyber motorists will have the opportunity to get behind the wheel. We're looking at its rivals, too, and the list grows on a regular basis.
Design Cars Tesla has once again tweaked the Model 3's pricing structure and specifications. The Californian company's entry-level model is now more expensive, but the cheapest version now offers buyers a little bit more driving range.
The changes weren't publicly announced by Tesla, but they were spotted by Autoblog on the carmaker's online configurator. The lineup is still broken down into three models called Standard Range Plus, Long Range, and Performance The cheapest Model 3 now costs $39,490, a figure that represents a $500 increase. It's also 5,000 more expensive than the $35,000 figure often floated in the months leading up to the car's introduction.
Cars Lucid Motors has become the latest automaker to announce that it will adopt the North American Charging Standard (NACS) – also known as "the Tesla plug" – for its electric vehicles.
The move follows in the footsteps of more than a dozen other automakers that have also adopted Tesla’s charging connector, among them General Motors, Ford, Toyota, BMW, Jaguar Land Rover, Volvo, and Honda.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
