Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Cars Guides Pros and cons of buying a used electric car By Christian de Looper Close Electric cars have come a long way over the past few years. Gone are the days when the thought of an electric car was a novelty — these days, EVs are common , (mostly) available, and for the most part, refined.
Pros of buying a used electric car Cons of buying a used electric car But they’re also still relatively expensive, especially for a good one. That’s exactly why you might be thinking about buying a used one.
But like with any product, there are pros and cons to buying a used electric car. Here’s a rundown.
The Lucid Gravity has more range than any other electric SUV Tesla says Cybertruck resellers could face harsh penalties Check out the NASA EV that will drive Artemis crew (partway) to the moon Pros of buying a used electric car Tesla A lower price The main benefit of buying a used electric car is of course the lower price.
 EVs are still more expensive than their standard gasoline counterparts, especially if you want an EV with a decent range and feature set. Buying a used EV can bring that price range down significantly, meaning you can get the benefits of an electric car, like the lower cost of maintenance and the lack of a need to buy gasoline, without paying a premium for a new model.
Could already have carpool exemption stickers In some areas, electric cars may be eligible for exemptions from carpool lane restrictions and other perks. If you buy a used electric car, it may already have those stickers — meaning you can give your commute a boost without needing to go through the application process yourself. These stickers usually last a few years and go wherever the car does (even if it changes owners). That could help you save even more money.
Issues are already ironed out Like any new product, electric cars can run into issues around performance and software — and from time to time, they’re even recalled to replace faulty parts. If you buy a used electric car, it’s likely that it may have already received software updates to iron out bugs, and already gone through any necessary recalls for faulty parts.
Cons of buying a used electric car Joel Patel/Digital Trends Normal wear and tear The main downside to buying a used electric car is that you are inheriting someone else’s wear and tear. EVs don’t require maintenance quite as much as standard gasoline cars, but they do have some wear and tear, like any car. Make sure to check the overall condition of the car before you commit to the purchase — and be sure to factor any unexpected maintenance costs into your budget.
Warranty may be expired or expiring Most electric cars come with a relatively long warranty — and some of them can be transferred to a new owner if the car is sold. But if you buy a used electric car, the warranty may already be voided. That means that if you encounter any issues, you’ll have to pay for repair or replacement out of pocket — so make sure to factor that into your budget, too.
Battery health On top of regular wear and tear, it’s worth paying particularly close attention to the health of the car’s battery. Batteries on electric cars can vary — some may be brand new, some may have been through several charge cycles, and some may be close to the end of their life. To make sure you’re not investing in a car with a weak battery, you should get a professional estimate of the battery’s health before signing any papers. Some EVs offer other ways to check battery health — for example, on a Tesla , you can check how much maximum range your car has lost in the mobile app. Again, it’s worth checking with the manufacturer and ensuring the battery, at least, is still under warranty, Tech is advancing quickly Finally, it’s also worth noting that electric cars are advancing quickly. Every few years brings major improvements to the tech and features that are available — and that might mean that a used electric car won’t offer things like as high of a range or advanced features that are available on other modern electric cars. That’s not necessarily a bad thing, but it’s something to consider when making a purchase.
Editors' Recommendations Cadillac aims to balance its lineup with a small electric SUV The Hyundai Ioniq 5 N makes one of the coolest EVs ready for the track Lucid joins other automakers by adopting Tesla charging plug Toyota joins ‘the Tesla plug’ club Tesla’s Cybertruck finally gets a delivery date Cars While U.S. firms like Waymo and Cruise focus on ridesharing services with their autonomous vehicles, the United Arab Emirates' coastal city of Dubai is aiming to take the technology to another level by deploying it in police patrol cars.
Dubai Police recently announced plans to use fully electric, self-driving patrol cars in residential areas, local media reported this week.
Cars An autonomous vehicle (AV) operated by Cruise ran over a pedestrian in San Francisco on Monday night just after she’d been hit by another car, the San Francisco Chronicle reported.
According to witnesses, the force of the initial impact knocked the woman into the path of the Cruise robotaxi, leaving her pinned under one of its wheels. The driver in the other car reportedly fled the scene.
Cars Electric vehicles are becoming more and more commonplace, with the best electric cars making us rethink the way we get around. They won’t get far without an EV charger, however, and these can be a good way to find some savings, as even the best car chargers will often see a discount. That’s certainly the case right now, as there are a lot of EV chargers available at a discount. So whether you’ve just gotten a new electric vehicle or you’re considering something new for the garage, these are the best electric car charger deals available right now.
Shockflo EV charger — $300, was $320 This EV charger by Shockflo is a Level 2 EV charger, which offers six times faster charging than a standard charger. It delivers 24 miles with just one hour of charging, and it can act as a mobile charger you can throw in the trunk or be mounted to a wall. It has an LCD display with useful information like charging rate, voltage, and charging time, as well as LED indicator lights that lets you know charging progress and errors.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
