Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Cars Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? 2024 Cadillac Celestiq EV: Rumored price, range, specs, and more By Christian de Looper Close Much of the focus in the EV world has been on striving for affordability, but there’s one electric car that’s going the opposite direction. The Cadillac Celestiq is built to be a head-turner, and it may serve as the EV to get for those who don’t mind spending … a lot.
Cadillac Celestiq design Cadillac Celestiq price Cadillac Celestiq release date Cadillac Celestiq colors and models Cadillac Celestiq charging speed and range Cadillac Celestiq performance Cadillac Celestiq tech features Cadillac Celestiq tax credit status Our Cadillac Celestiq wish list The Celestiq will be unique for more reasons than just its price tag. Unlike other electric cars, the Celestiq will be built by hand to order — and Cadillac says there’s no limit to the kinds of customizations that customers will be able to make. In other words, we may soon see some very expensive, very flashy Celestiqs at some point in the future.
Curious about the new car? Here’s everything we know about the Cadillac Celestiq so far.
Kia EV5: rumored pricing, design, range, features, and more Scout Motors Electric SUV: rumored price, release date, design, and more 2025 Buick Electra: rumored price, release date, range, and more Cadillac Celestiq design The Cadillac Celestiq is a luxury hatchback sedan, and it looks like one. Sure, it borrows design elements from previous-generation Cadillac cars, but the long curved line of the top of the car, coupled with the unique rear lighting, set it apart from both Cadillac’s other cars and other EVs in general.
Cadillac The interior of the car is set to be just as luxurious. It’ll feature accent lighting throughout, with a massive sunroof that stretches along the top. The glass on the sunroof is electrochromic, so it can adjust in opacity for a more comfortable experience. At the front, there’s a large instrument panel, and on the seats, you’ll find plush, soft-touch leather.
Cadillac Celestiq price Cadillac has yet to announce specific pricing for the Cadillac Celestiq, but it has said that it’ll be more than $300,000. This is not the electric car for the masses — it’s for those who want a unique car, and can afford to spend big bucks to get it.
Cadillac Celestiq multifunction controller and screen.
Cadillac It’s entirely possible that each Celestiq will be a little different in price, considering the customization options — though we’ll have to wait and see.
Cadillac Celestiq release date The Cadillac Celestiq will be released as a 2024 model, and production is set to start in December 2023. That could mean that deliveries start around January 2024.
Those interested in getting one for themselves can join the waitlist.
Cadillac Celestiq colors and models One of the key tenets of the Celestiq is customizability, and as such there’s no set selection of colors for the car. Customers will work with Cadillac’s designers to build the Celestiq that they want, and that could mean any number of colors or finishes. In press images, the Celestiq can be seen in a nice deep blue, but that’s just an example.
Cadillac The colors are customizable, but you can’t customize the powertrain. That means that you won’t be able to pay more for larger batteries or more motors, like you can on many other electric cars.
Cadillac Celestiq charging speed and range General Motors is taking full advantage of its Ultium platform on the Celestiq, which means it will share guts with peers like the Hummer EV and Cadillac Lyriq.
 The Celestiq will get around 300 miles of range on a charge, which isn’t bad — but a little lackluster considering the price tag, and the fact that much cheaper luxury sedans like the Lucid Air Grand Touring can get 500 miles or so.
The Celestiq will be able to charge at up to 200 kilowatts at a DC fast charger, meaning that it can get up to 78 miles of range in around 10 minutes, which isn’t bad.
Cadillac Celestiq performance Close-up of the Cadillac CELESTIQ front driver’s side while charging.
Cadillac Because the Celestiq won’t be available in multiple trims, there’s only one powertrain on offer here. You’ll get a dual-motor, all-wheel drive configuration that Cadillac says will deliver 600 horsepower and enable the car to get from 0 to 60mph in around 3.8 seconds. That’s pretty zippy.
We’ll have to wait and see how the car drives in the real world, and what the overall driving dynamics are like.
Cadillac Celestiq tech features The Cadillac Celestiq will likely be packed with features that make driving the car easier and more comfortable. For starters, the Celestiq will offer four climate zones, essentially giving each person in the car their own controls. As mentioned, the car will also feature an electrochromic glass sunroof.
At the front of the car, drivers will get a massive 55-inch display that’s used for a digital instrument cluster and for infotainment, similar to the Mercedes Hyperscreen.
 In the back, however, passengers will get their own 12.6-inch screens for infotainment. The Celestiq will boast a 38-speaker AKG Studio Reference stereo system, so you’ll get some serious oomph to your music.
Interior view of Cadillac CELESTIQ showing the front 55-inch pillar-to-pillar screen.
Cadillac We hope to see CarPlay and Android Auto, however it’s likely those systems won’t be available considering the fact that GM is phasing out support.
 Hopefully, that will change.
The car will offer some tech-heavy driver-assist features too. In fact, Cadillac says that it’ll boast GM’s new Ultra Cruise feature that will allow for hands-free driving in a range of different situations. It’ll also have features that are standard these days, like automated emergency braking, lane-departure warning, and so on.
Cadillac Celestiq tax credit status The Cadillac Celestiq will not qualify for the federal EV tax credit, as it is (far) too expensive. The limit for the federal EV tax credit is $55,000 for sedans.
Our Cadillac Celestiq wish list Most of the stuff we would have liked to see on the Celestiq simply won’t be available on the car. We would have liked a longer range and a faster charging speed, given the fact that the likes of the Kia EV6 and Hyundai Ioniq 5, which are far cheaper, can charge at up to 350kW.
We would also like to see CarPlay and Android Auto on the Celestiq. It’s unlikely this will happen, which means that drivers will be stuck with GM’s subpar self-built infotainment system.
Editors' Recommendations The Lucid Gravity has more range than any other electric SUV Kia EV4: design, rumored pricing, release date, and more Rivian R2 compact SUV: Rumored price, release date, design, and more Volvo EX30 price, range, release date, specs, and more Tesla Cybertruck: rumored price, release date, specs and more Cars Drivers of Ford’s electric vehicles (EVs) will find charging them a little easier starting next spring after Tesla on Thursday promised the availability of 12,000 of its Superchargers across the U.S. and Canada.
The move will double the number of fast-chargers currently available to Ford’s EV owners.
Cars Every major carmaker, from Ford to Volvo and beyond, makes an EV these days, but Tesla has had a bit of a head start. As a result, it now offers a well-rounded lineup of electric cars, including sedans and SUVs. Tesla’s cars are still some of the best EVs out there, and if you’re in the market for an electric car, you’re likely considering a Tesla.
Larger cars, like SUVs and crossovers, are the most popular in the U.S. right now — and Tesla offers two of them: The Tesla Model X and the Tesla Model Y. Both have their advantages and disadvantages, and there are a few major differences, including price. Here’s everything you need to know about the two cars and why one or the other might be better for your needs.
Tesla Model X vs. Tesla Model Y: Design Cars The 2024 Chevrolet Equinox EV isn’t the General Motors brand’s first electric model, but it might be the most consequential. Chevy has plenty of EV experience, but with the Equinox EV, which is scheduled to go on sale in fall 2023, it’s prioritizing mass-market appeal.
The third electric vehicle unveiled by Chevy this year, following the Silverado EV and Blazer EV, the Equinox EV aims for greater affordability with a targeted starting price of around $30,000. Its compact crossover SUV form factor is also more suited to American tastes than the current Chevy Bolt EV and Bolt EUV.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
