Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Cars Guides Can electric car batteries be recycled? By Christian de Looper Close The big promise of electric cars is that they’ll radically cut down on carbon emissions, helping fight climate change. And at first glance, they do so — after all, you don’t have to fill the tank with fossil fuels every few days, and there are no emissions from the car itself.
Are electric car batteries recycled today? What hope is there for future battery recycling? But the truth is a little murkier. Electric cars may not produce emissions themselves, but they have much bigger batteries requiring exotic metals , potentially creating a whole different environmental issue when those batteries near the end of their life span.
So what can be done with electric car batteries? Can they be recycled? The Lucid Gravity has more range than any other electric SUV Waymo expands robotaxi service area in San Francisco Best electric car charger deals: $100 off home charging stations Are electric car batteries recycled today? Electric cars are still in their infancy, and as such, we haven’t really had to deal with the ecological issues that will arise when EVs reach the end of their lifetimes.
However, there are situations where an EV is no longer road-ready. There are a few that might be at the end of their life, or an EV might have been involved in an accident that renders it undrivable.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Thankfully, in those scenarios, batteries can be, and are sometimes, recycled. There are a number of startups out there that can turn an EV battery into a mass of elements, including copper, cobalt, nickel, and lithium. That mass is then shipped off overseas to be processed into materials that can then be turned into new electric car batteries.
Of course, ultimately, we’ll want car batteries to be processed locally, ensuring that they don’t have to be shipped off just to be recycled. There are a number of startups working on that, and plants that can facilitate the recycling of batteries are set to be built in the U.S. soon. One such startup is the Toronto-based Li-Cycle , which is building a plant in Rochester, New York, to process batteries into materials that can be used for new EV batteries.
Unfortunately, much of the time, the process of deactivating a lithium-ion battery involves burning them to remove unwanted materials — and that often ends up removing some of the wanted materials too. Not only that, but only a fraction of lithium-ion batteries in the U.S. are recycled at all, with the rest ending up being smelted.
What hope is there for future battery recycling? boonchai wedmakawand/Getty Images Thankfully, we have some time to perfect the tech on recycling EV batteries — the need isn’t massive yet. But it’s important to continue developing the technologies we do have. As electric cars become increasingly popular, we’ll soon need to recycle millions of electric car batteries per year.
Of course, car manufacturers have one strong incentive to recycle batteries: They need to make a lot more of them. The materials that go into building EV batteries are limited, and it’s not currently clear exactly how manufacturers will find enough to support sales over the next decade or so.
Plenty of startups are hoping to meet this need by developing new ways to turn batteries back into their raw materials, to then be used for new batteries, while losing as little as possible. A company called Redwood Materials, for example, uses the energy left in batteries to recover the materials in them through converters that separate the metals.
We still have a long way to go before we successfully recycle all electric car batteries, but there are plenty of companies — and carmakers themselves — working on it.
Editors' Recommendations Cadillac aims to balance its lineup with a small electric SUV Dubai Police to deploy driverless patrol cars with AI smarts Cruise autonomous vehicle drives over woman just after she was hit by another car The fastest electric cars, ranked by 0-60 mph acceleration Rivian R1T gets estimated 410 miles of range with Dual-Motor powertrain, Max Pack battery Tech for Change The Food Fight Cars Aside from building electric cars, batteries, and solar panels, Tesla is also looking to build a Supercharger station with a difference.
The automaker has reportedly received planning permission to construct an all-night diner and drive-in movie theater in Los Angeles, Teslarati reported recently.
Cars Lamborghini will unveil a concept of its first fully electric supercar at Monterey Car Week in California on Friday.
The Italian automaker earlier this week released a teaser in the form of a silhouette image of the sleek-looking vehicle. In a comment accompanying the image, it told auto fans to expect something “new and truly thrilling.” Cars A self-driving car operated by General Motors-backed Cruise got stuck on Tuesday when it drove into a patch of wet concrete.
The incident happened in San Francisco and occurred just days after California's Public Utilities Commission made a landmark decision when it voted to allow autonomous-car companies Cruise and Waymo to expand their paid ridesharing services in the city to all hours of the day instead of just quieter periods.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
