Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Tesla Supercharger Reset Screen in Tesla Tesla Phone Tesla Roadster Tesla Model X vs Tesla Model Y Tesla Optimus Tesla Destination Chargers Home Cars Guides The cheapest electric cars you can buy By Christian de Looper Close To date, electric vehicles have cost considerably more than their gasoline-powered counterparts, but that’s finally changing. Every year, more and more inexpensive EVs are hitting the market and, with the help of local, state, and federal tax credits and rebates (if available), many of them now sell for well below the 2023 median car price of $48,000.
2023 Chevrolet Bolt EV 2023 Nissan Leaf S 2023 Chevrolet Bolt EUV LT 2023 Mini Cooper Electric 2023 Hyundai Kona Electric 2023 Mazda MX-30 2023 Volkswagen ID.4 Standard Tesla Model 3 2023 Kia Niro EV If you’re a budget-conscious buyer, that number is probably little consolation. However, there are a lot of good options for closer to $30,000 and below — if you know where to look. That’s why we’ve put together this guide. Here’s a list of the nine most affordable electric vehicles available right now, ranked from cheapest to most expensive. Note that we’re only including vehicles that are available in the U.S.
If these models are still too much for your budget, keep in mind that used EVs are eligible for rebates , too! And buying one of the best used EVs means you can pick a time-tested model that holds up.
The Lucid Gravity has more range than any other electric SUV Lucid joins other automakers by adopting Tesla charging plug Tesla’s Cybertruck finally gets a delivery date 2023 Chevrolet Bolt EV Chevrolet How much does it cost? $27,495 (1LT), $30,695 (2LT) What is the driving range? 259 miles Chevrolet’s Bolt is one of the oldest models on the list, and it’s actually on its final run after the company announced that it would be discontinuing the car after the 2023 model year. Don’t let its age fool you though — the car has a range longer than many of the other models on this list. It also comes with a long list of tech features, including a 10.2-inch touchscreen and an 8.0-inch digital instrument cluster. The 65-kilowatt-hour battery pack sends electricity to a 200-horsepower motor.
Standard tech and driver-assistance features: 10.2-inch touchscreen, Apple CarPlay, Android Auto, SiriusXM, 8.0-inch digital instrument cluster screen, automatic emergency braking, front pedestrian braking, lane keep assist with lane departure warning, forward collision alert, following distance indicator, auto high beams, rearview camera.
Available tech and driver-assistance features: Bose audio system, two additional USB ports, wireless phone charger, forward collision alert, rear-cross traffic alert, rear parking sensors, surround-view camera system, adaptive cruise control.
2023 Nissan Leaf S Nissan / Nissan How much does it cost? $28,040 (S), $36,040 (SV Plus) What is the driving range? 149 miles (S), 215 miles (SV Plus) The Nissan Leaf has long been one of the cheapest electric cars, and that continues to this day. But you’ll pay for it in range. The base model only goes 149 miles, and even if you opt for the more expensive SV Plus model, its 215 miles of range isn’t amazing in 2023. Regardless of the model you pick, you’ll get equipment like rear automatic braking and a USB-C port. You can also opt for ProPilot Assist, Nissan’s advanced driver-assistance system that can steer, brake, and accelerate for drivers under certain conditions. The base model comes with a 40kWh battery pack and a 147-hp motor, while the SV Plus gets a 62kWh battery pack and a 214-hp motor.
Standard tech and driver-assistance features: 8.0-inch touchscreen, Apple CarPlay, Android Auto, 7.0-inch digital instrument cluster screen, SiriusXM satellite radio, forward collision alert, emergency automatic front braking with pedestrian detection, emergency automatic rear braking, lane departure warning, lane keep assist , blind-spot monitoring, rear-cross traffic alert, high beam assist, traffic sign recognition, rear parking sensors, DC fast charging.
Available tech and driver-assistance features: Advanced driver-assist system (ProPilot Assist), Bose audio system, adaptive cruise control, driver attention warning, surround-view camera system.
2023 Chevrolet Bolt EUV LT Stephen Edelstein / Digital Trends How much does it cost? $28,795 (LT), $29,290 (LT Redline), $33,295 (Premier), $33,790 (Premier Redline) What is the driving range? 247 miles If you like the idea of a Bolt EV, but want something a little larger, then the Bolt EUV is worth considering. The Bolt EUV is far from a full-size SUV, but it does offer a little more space than its little brother, perhaps making it a better choice for a family. The Bolt EUV comes with many of the same tech features as the standard Bolt EV, which is good news for those who want something with solid tech for the price.
Standard tech and driver-assistance features: 10.2-inch touchscreen, Apple CarPlay, Android Auto, SiriusXM, 8.0-inch digital instrument cluster screen, automatic emergency braking, front pedestrian braking, lane keep assist with lane departure warning, forward collision alert, following distance indicator, auto high beams, rearview camera.
Available tech and driver-assistance features: Bose audio system, two additional USB ports, wireless phone charger, forward collision alert, rear-cross traffic alert, rear parking sensors, surround-view camera system, adaptive cruise control.
2023 Mini Cooper Electric Stephen Edelstein/Digital Trends How much does it cost? $30,900 What is the driving range? 114 miles The Mini Cooper has a long history to it, but if you’re interested in an EV version, you’ll have to deal with a pretty short range. The Mini Cooper SE has a range of a measly 114 miles, which means it’s probably only a good option for those who want to drive around town and can charge at home. The 28.9kWh battery pack zaps a 181-hp electric motor. Tech features are ample (with the exception of Android Auto, which is missing), but the SE lacks some driver-assistance features, including adaptive cruise control.
 If you don’t drive far or have another car with more range, this cool little EV could be right for you.
Standard tech and driver-assistance features: 8.8-inch touchscreen, Apple CarPlay, 5.5-inch digital instrument cluster screen, forward collision alert, emergency automatic front braking, DC fast-charging capability.
Available tech and driver-assistance features: Harman Kardon audio system, wireless phone charger, head-up display, self-parking system.
2023 Hyundai Kona Electric Stephen Edelstein/Digital Trends How much does it cost? $33,550 (SE), $37,300 (SEL), $41,550 (Limited) What is the driving range? 258 miles The Hyundai Kona Electric rides on the same platform as the Kia Niro EV, and it uses the same basic drivetrain. It puts 201 hp under the driver’s right foot, but its driving range is slightly higher than its Kia-badged sibling. It offers a comprehensive list of standard and optional equipment, but its starting price has crept up. If you want all of the bells and whistles, the top Limited trim offers features like a head-up display, but it starts at a higher price than the other models.
Standard tech and driver-assistance features: 8.0-inch touchscreen, Apple CarPlay, Android Auto, 10.25-inch digital instrument cluster screen, SiriusXM satellite radio, forward collision alert, emergency automatic front braking, lane departure warning, lane keep assist, blind-spot monitoring, rear-cross traffic alert, driver attention warning, DC fast-charging capability.
Available tech and driver-assistance features: 10.25-inch touchscreen, Harman Kardon audio system, head-up display, wireless phone charger, adaptive cruise control.
2023 Mazda MX-30 Mazda How much does it cost? $34,110 What is the driving range? 100 miles Here’s another car with some cool features, but an extremely limited range. The 2023 Mazda MX-30 may be bigger than a car like the Mini Cooper Electric, but it has a lower range — only 100 miles. That makes it a poor choice if you want an EV you can take on trips. Still, if you are fine with a very limited range, you’ll get things like a relatively stylish design and the satisfaction of eco-friendly interior materials.
Standard tech and driver-assistance features: Adaptive front-lighting system, Apple CarPlay, Android Auto, two USB audio inputs, 8.8-inch touch display, 7.0-inch digital instrument cluster, rear view camera.
Available tech and driver-assistance features: Bose audio system, blind spot assistant, SiriusXM Satellite Radio.
2023 Volkswagen ID.4 Standard Stephen Edelstein/Digital Trends / Volkswagen How much does it cost? $38,995 (Standard), $43,995 (Pro), $47,795 (AWD Pro), $43,995 (S), $48,995 (Pro S), $52,795 (AWD Pro S), $51,445 (Pro S Plus), $55,245 (AWD Pro S Plus What is the driving range? 209 to 275 miles Finally, we’re back to EVs with a halfway decent range. The ID.4 has long been one of the more popular EV options, and within the ID.4 range, there are a ton of trims to choose from. These trims offer radically varied features and ranges, so no matter what kind of tech you want, it’s likely that there’s something for you. Even the base model, however, isn’t bad, with a range of 209 miles and a single rear motor that can deliver 201 hp.
Standard tech and driver-assistance features: 12-inch touchscreen, wireless charging, advanced driver assistance (IQ.DRIVE), rearview camera, blind spot monitoring with rear traffic alert, forward collision warning, automatic emergency braking, light assistant, SiriusXM, Available tech and driver-assistance features: 360-degree view, power liftgate, three-zone climate control.
Tesla Model 3 Tesla / Tesla How much does it cost? $40,240 (Standard), $47,240 (Long Range), $53,240 (Performance) What is the driving range? 272 to 333 miles The Model 3 offers longer range than any other car on this list, even in the base model. While it’s also one of the most expensive cars on this list, it’s Tesla’s cheapest model. You get all the tech you would expect from Tesla, like a massive touchscreen and the option for Autopilot, plus tech you don’t expect, like Dog Mode and in-car arcade games.
 And don’t forget the company’s impressive Supercharger network , which is a huge leg up on road trips.
Standard tech and driver-assistance features: 15-inch touchscreen, four USB ports, two smartphone docks, Bluetooth media streaming, and Autopilot (including lane keep assist, adaptive cruise control, collision warning, automatic braking, and blind-spot monitoring).
Available tech and driver-assistance features: Satellite maps with live traffic, in-car internet, video streaming, Caraoke, Full Self-Driving Capability (including automatic lane changes, Summon, Traffic Light and Stop Sign control, plus Autopark). Note that Premium Connectivity requires a monthly subscription.
2023 Kia Niro EV Christian de Looper / Digital Trends How much will it cost? $39,550 (Wind), $44,550 (Wave) What is the driving range? 253 miles Like other Kia electric cars, the Kia Niro EV offers good range, 201 hp, and plenty of standard and available features. The main difference is the price; this EV starts at almost $40,000, mostly because it comes standard with more equipment and a more stylish design. The top trim takes the price to almost $45,000, which is only a little cheaper than the Model 3 Long Range. However, the majority of driver-assistance features offered come standard.
Standard tech and driver-assist features: 10.25-inch touchscreen, Apple CarPlay, Android Auto, 10.25-inch digital instrument cluster screen, SiriusXM satellite radio, adaptive cruise control, forward collision alert, emergency automatic front braking with pedestrian detection, lane centering, lane departure warning, lane keep assist, blind-spot monitoring, rear-cross traffic alert, driver attention warning, and DC fast-charging capability Available tech and driver-assist features: 10.25-inch touchscreen, Harman Kardon audio system, wireless phone charger, rear parking sensors, highway driving assist.
Editors' Recommendations Cadillac aims to balance its lineup with a small electric SUV Tesla says Cybertruck resellers could face harsh penalties Toyota joins ‘the Tesla plug’ club Best electric car charger deals: $100 off home charging stations Volkswagen ID.4 vs Tesla Model Y Buying Guides Buying Guides Tesla Cars Electric vehicles benefit from instant torque, but that doesn't necessarily mean they're quick.
The more affordable electric cars, like the Chevrolet Bolt EV and Hyundai Kona Electric, are zippy around town, but nothing to brag about on a drag strip. However, higher-end models like the ones we're looking at here can keep up with some of the most powerful gasoline-burning sports cars in the world -- and in many cases beat them.
Cars Aside from building electric cars, batteries, and solar panels, Tesla is also looking to build a Supercharger station with a difference.
The automaker has reportedly received planning permission to construct an all-night diner and drive-in movie theater in Los Angeles, Teslarati reported recently.
Cars Tesla chief Elon Musk has posted a photo of a “production candidate” Cybertruck, with the man himself behind the wheel of the new electric pickup.
“Just drove the production candidate Cybertruck at Tesla Giga Texas!” Musk said in the post on X, the platform formerly known as Twitter.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
