Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Cars Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Is your check engine light on? Here are 10 possible reasons why By Ronan Glon Close While your car can’t talk, it communicates with you using chimes, icons, and messages. One icon that you should never ignore is the orange, engine-shaped one that is usually found in the instrument cluster. It turns on when the car’s onboard computer detects a problem.
Oxygen sensor failure Loose fuel cap Catalytic converter failure Spark plug/ignition coil issues Bad spark plug wires Mass airflow sensor failure Issues with an aftermarket alarm Vacuum leak Exhaust gas recirculation valve failure Dead battery My check engine light is on. Now what? Will the check engine light tell me when I should fix my car? Don’t panic if you see it — it doesn’t necessarily mean you’ll need to give your next paycheck to the nearest mechanic. Problems that trigger a check engine light are sometimes basic and quick to fix. Don’t ignore it, either, and get it checked out as quickly as possible.
Here are the 10 most common problems that can trigger a check engine light. Keep in mind that the fault code that caused the light to turn on in the first place is stored in your car’s onboard computer, and you can retrieve it using a simple device to get a precise idea of what exactly is wrong under the hood. Doing this on your own will save you money in the long run.
Want to join the Android Army? Here are all the cars with Android Auto The best used cars under $15,000 Oxygen sensor failure Ruslan Kudrin/123rf The oxygen sensor (sometimes called an O2 sensor ) measures the amount of unburnt oxygen in a car’s exhaust system. It sends data to the vehicle’s computer, which uses it to regulate the mixture of air and fuel that enters the cylinders. An engine will keep running even if an O2 sensor needs to be replaced, but it will burn more fuel than usual. In the long run, a bad O2 sensor can damage components like spark plugs and the catalytic converter. It may also cause a car to fail an emissions test.
On average, a quality O2 sensor will set you back about $175, but the cost of labor will vary greatly depending on the vehicle’s make and model, as well as your geographical location. Finally, keep in mind that most late-model cars have more than one O2 sensor.
Loose fuel cap John Wolf/123rf A loose fuel cap is one of the most common reasons why the check engine light turns on. The cap is a crucial part of a car’s fuel delivery system. It notably prevents gasoline fumes from leaving the fuel tank, and it helps keep the whole system under the correct pressure.
If your check engine light turns on immediately after a fill-up, pull over and make sure the cap isn’t loose — or still on your car’s roof. Sometimes the cap needs to be replaced, but it’s not a problem that’s going to hit your wallet hard. Most auto parts stores carry universal-fit gas caps that cost somewhere in the vicinity of $15.
Catalytic converter failure Image used with permission by copyright holder The catalytic converter is integrated into a vehicle’s exhaust system. It turns the carbon monoxide generated during the combustion process into carbon dioxide. It’s a fairly simple part, and its failure can often be prevented. That’s good news because a new one costs between $200 and $600 depending on the make and model. Every late-model car that runs on gasoline has a catalytic converter.
Performing regular maintenance (such as oil changes ) on time is key to keeping your car’s catalytic converter in working order. If you live in the city and mostly drive short distances, take your car on the highway every now and then to ensure the catalytic converter doesn’t get clogged. And as always, keep your eyes and ears open for unusual sounds or discolored smoke coming from the exhaust.
Spark plug/ignition coil issues olegdudko/123rf Put simply, an ignition coil generates the electricity the spark plugs need to ignite the fuel and air mixture in the cylinders. Classic cars have a single coil, but many modern vehicles use one coil per cylinder (it’s often called a coil pack). If your ride has a V8 under the hood, you could have eight separate coils. The monstrous Bugatti Chiron has 16. No matter how many you have though, a malfunctioning coil will almost certainly trigger the check engine light, but remember, if your car burns diesel, you have neither ignition coils nor spark plugs.
Speaking of spark plugs, worn or fouled plugs can cause a variety of issues including an engine misfire and hesitation under heavy acceleration. A worn coil can exhibit the same symptoms, and it can cause the car to shut off unexpectedly. A quality spark plug costs between $10 and $20, while a coil is generally in the $50 range.
Changing your own spark plugs is also easier than it sounds.
Bad spark plug wires mediagram/123rf As its name implies, a spark plug wire transfers electricity from the coil to the spark plug. Without it, the fuel and air mixture in the cylinders wouldn’t ignite. The vast majority of cars use a single wire per cylinder, but there are models — notably, some older Mercedes-Benzes — with two spark plugs per cylinder and, consequently, two wires. Keep in mind that most newer cars do not use spark plug wires, however.
Symptoms of bad spark plug wires include a rough idle, a noticeable drop in engine performance, and lower gas mileage. Expect to spend about $50 on a set of plug wires. Swapping them out is easy — it takes a few minutes and requires no special tools or knowledge.
Mass airflow sensor failure Image used with permission by copyright holder The mass airflow ( MAF ) sensor monitors how much air enters the engine. It’s a part of the engine-management system, so your car wouldn’t be able to adjust to changes in altitude without it. Symptoms of an MAF failure include a rough idle, trouble starting, and a sudden change in the position of the throttle pedal. Reduced gas mileage and stalling can also indicate a MAF problem.
A MAF for a late-model car typically costs between $120 and $150.
Issues with an aftermarket alarm kwangmoo/123rf An aftermarket alarm system can wreak havoc on your car if it’s not installed properly. It can drain the battery, trigger the check engine light, or even prevent the vehicle from starting. Then, when you least expect it, it’ll go off in the middle of the night because a leaf from an oak tree fell on the hood.
If the above issues sound familiar, you’ll need to have the alarm fixed, reinstalled, or replaced entirely by a competent mechanic. Getting it done right in the first place might cost a little bit more, but the peace of mind that comes with having a fully functional alarm is priceless.
Vacuum leak Olivér Svéd/123rf Every car has a vacuum system that performs a wide variety of functions. The brake booster is vacuum-operated, and the vacuum system also helps lower emissions by routing the fumes as gasoline evaporates through the engine. If your car’s idle begins to surge or settles at an unusually high rpm, a vacuum leak could be the culprit.
Vacuum hoses can dry out and crack as they age, especially if they’re exposed to intense heat or extreme cold. This is the most common cause of vacuum leaks. Other common issues include cracked fittings and loose connections. Vacuum lines cost just a few bucks each, but tracing the source of the leak can be time-consuming — and expensive if you’re not performing the work yourself.
Exhaust gas recirculation valve failure Dmitrii Bachtub/123rf The exhaust gas recirculation (EGR) system lowers the amount of nitrogen oxide that comes out of the car’s engine and helps it run more efficiently. It directs the hot exhaust gases back into the combustion chambers, which makes fuel easier to burn. It also reduces emissions.
The EGR valve can get clogged or fail entirely. If you’re even slightly mechanically inclined, you can remove the valve, clean it, and reinstall it in a relatively short amount of time. If the valve needs to be replaced, expect to pay at least $125 for a brand-new, OEM-quality unit.
Dead battery Image used with permission by copyright holder The battery is as simple as it is important; without it, your car won’t start. Today’s batteries last much longer than before and they’re maintenance-free. The price of a new one depends on the type of car you drive, but plan on spending at least $100 for a quality battery.
Changing or charging a battery on your own is a relatively easy task, but keep in mind that in some late-model cars, it’s buried under countless plastic covers, and it might be a little difficult to access. Also, note that disconnecting the battery will often reset your stereo system. If you don’t have the code, ask your local dealer for it before you unbolt the positive and negative terminals. Otherwise, you’ll be driving in silence.
My check engine light is on. Now what? Modern cars are brimming with high-tech bells and whistles, but you inexplicably still need a separate, aftermarket device to decipher why the check engine light is on. Most motorists simply take their car to the dealership. That’s the easy way out, but it’s also the most expensive route to take. If you want to skip a trip to the repair shop, invest in a OBD II scanner (or a more advanced adapter). You can pick one up for less than $40, which isn’t bad considering many shops charge between $50 and $100 to pull codes from the ECU.
Ready? Start by finding your car’s OBD II port. It’s usually in the driver’s footwell, not far from the hood release, but sometimes it’s hidden behind the center console or in a compartment built into the floor. Plug in the scanner and the error codes stored in the car’s ECU will appear on the screen. Sometimes the codes are clearly explained; other times, you’ll need to do a bit of searching to figure out what something like P1301 means. Repair manuals are useful for deciphering codes, but Google usually has the answer.
Error codes are a useful diagnostic tool that can help you figure out where to start when your car needs a repair; just be careful to understand their limitations. Error codes don’t always tell the full story.
Once, when working on a relative’s car that had lost all power, the ECU codes indicated a problem with the turbo. But the issue wasn’t with the part itself — it was a cracked vacuum hose. Long story short: Having a list of codes at your disposal doesn’t always mean a straightforward solution. You may need to spend a few minutes (or, at worst, a couple of hours) poking around the engine bay to find the issue.
There are professional-grade code scanners that are more precise but also much more expensive. The scanner can only give you a code; you also need in-depth knowledge of what each code means or a useful way to find out. Alternatively, some auto parts stores will run a diagnostic test for free. However, getting a scanner will save you time and money while making you more car-savvy. Make sure the unit you pick is compatible with your car before buying it. Some cheaper scanners won’t work with every make and model, so it pays to do your research.
Will the check engine light tell me when I should fix my car? The check engine light provides an idea — sometimes precise, sometimes vague — of what’s wrong with a car. However, it does not replace a skilled mechanic or routine maintenance.
In other words, don’t wait until the check engine light comes on to get your car maintenance done. The ECU will not warn you that the water pump is about to fail, that one of the ball joints is worn, or that the A/C will stop blowing cold air in mid-August. Many people think that the check engine light serves the same purpose as a check-up reminder when it really alerts you that you’re probably due for a repair. By that point, the damage has already happened in many cases.
You can think of car maintenance as a two-step process. The first and most critical is routine, preventative maintenance. You should do these tune-ups on a schedule and not in response to any issues. The second is timely diagnostic maintenance which is responsive to changes like new sounds, smells, or feelings as you drive.
You also want to be familiar with your car’s basic needs, like how often to change the oil and coolant or replace brake pads. A little research into your specific vehicle and basic mechanics can save you time and money in the long run. If you’re consistent with a regular maintenance routine, you may never see that little orange engine light pop on at all.
Editors' Recommendations What is Uconnect? Here’s everything you need to know about the popular system What to pack in a car emergency kit Cars Lucid Motors has become the latest automaker to announce that it will adopt the North American Charging Standard (NACS) – also known as "the Tesla plug" – for its electric vehicles.
The move follows in the footsteps of more than a dozen other automakers that have also adopted Tesla’s charging connector, among them General Motors, Ford, Toyota, BMW, Jaguar Land Rover, Volvo, and Honda.
Cars General Motors-owned Cruise has halted production of its fully driverless vehicle -- the Origin -- just over a week after it suspended robotaxi operations nationwide following a number of troubling incidents involving its cars.
The news was announced by Cruise CEO Kyle Vogt during a meeting with staff on Monday, according to Forbes, which obtained audio of the gathering.
Cars The Ram brand is finally taking an electrified approach, and by resurrecting the Ramcharger name, no less. Alongside the new 2025 Ram 1500, the company has unveiled the new 2025 Ram 1500 Ramcharger, a new plug-in hybrid that Ram touts as offering "unlimited battery electric range." The new truck is one of a number of electrified trucks, the most well-known of which include the fully-electric Ford F-150 Lightning and the new Chevrolet Silverado EV. But instead of being fully electric, the 1500 Ramcharger is a plug-in hybrid, meaning that it has an electric motor and battery, and a gas tank and engine.
The plug-in approach It's perhaps a smart move. Electric trucks show a lot of promise -- but they start to falter a little when it comes to things like towing and hauling heavy loads. Keeping the 1500 Ramcharger a hybrid means that with no load or light ones, the truck can zip around town on electric power -- and when necessary, it can switch the engine on to tow or haul. It could well be the perfect combo for many truck owners who at least occasionally need that extra oomph, but who still could stand to save some cash -- and go a little easier on the environment - when simply driving around town.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
