Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Cars Guides What are the different types of electric car chargers? By Christian de Looper Close As we head into a world of electric cars, charging is the biggest concern for many first-time buyers. It makes sense. While the hype for electric cars themselves is arguably justified, the biggest drawback is the fact that you have to charge them, and right now, that can be a bit of a hassle.
Electric car charging speed types Electric car charger plug types That’s not only because of the fact that you have to wait to charge — but also because of the fact that there are different types of electric car chargers, and you may not be able to charge an electric car with all of those different types.
Need a rundown? Here’s a look at the different types of electric car chargers.
The Lucid Gravity has more range than any other electric SUV Tesla says Cybertruck resellers could face harsh penalties Check out the NASA EV that will drive Artemis crew (partway) to the moon Electric car charging speed types boonchai wedmakawand/Getty Images There are three primary types of electric car charger speeds. They are often referred to as Level 1, Level 2, and Level 3 chargers. Here’s an overview of each type.
Level 1 Level 1 chargers use a standard 120-volt AC household outlet and provide charging through a vehicle’s onboard charger. They typically deliver 2 to 3 miles of range per hour of charging, making them suitable for overnight charging or for plug-in hybrid electric vehicles (PHEVs) with smaller battery capacities. Level 1 charging is the slowest method of charging an electric vehicle (EV) but doesn’t require any special charging equipment beyond the charging cable supplied with the vehicle. If you lose it or want to upgrade, our guide to charging an EV at home includes some options with perks like longer cables and faster charging speeds.
Level 2 Level 2 chargers use a 240-volt AC power source, similar to what is used for large household appliances like electric dryers. They are significantly faster than Level 1 chargers, providing 10 to 60 miles of range per hour of charging, depending on the vehicle and charger specifications. Level 2 chargers are commonly found in residential, workplace, and public charging stations, which you can find with the best apps for finding car charging stations.
Level 3 Level 3 chargers, also known as DC Fast Chargers (DCFC) or rapid chargers, provide direct current (DC) charging at much higher power levels than Level 1 or Level 2 chargers. They can charge an EV up to 80% capacity in just 20 to 60 minutes, depending on the vehicle’s battery capacity and the charger’s power output. These chargers are commonly found along highways and in urban areas for longer trips or quick top-ups. If you’re wondering how much it costs to recharge an electric car at one of these stations, it varies significantly, but $20 to $30 is a reasonable estimate for many cars in many situations. Due to the power required, installing one at home isn’t an option.
Electric car charger plug types Electrify America On top of the different types of charging speeds, there are also different car charger connectors. Here’s a look at the different connector types in North America.
SAE J1772 This plug type is primarily used for Level 1 and Level 2 AC charging in North America. It is the standard connector for most electric vehicles (except for Tesla) and charging stations in the United States and Canada. If you have an EV that’s not a Tesla, in North America, it likely supports this charging standard.
CCS (Combined Charging System) The CCS plug is an extension of the SAE J1772 connector, with two additional DC pins for fast charging. CCS is backed by many major automakers, including BMW, Volkswagen, General Motors, Ford, and others. It is becoming the standard for DC fast charging in North America and Europe — so if you have a non-Tesla that supports DC fast charging, like the Kia EV6 GT , it most likely has a CCS connector.
CHAdeMO CHAdeMO is a DC fast charging standard developed in Japan and used by several automakers, including Nissan, Mitsubishi, and Kia. The CHAdeMO plug enables rapid charging for compatible electric vehicles, primarily in Japan, the United States, and some European countries. It’s relatively uncommon, which can make it a strike against the few vehicles that use it, like Mitsubishi’s 2023 Outlander PHEV.
Tesla Proprietary Connector Tesla uses its own proprietary connector for both AC and DC charging at its Supercharger network stations and Tesla Destination Chargers.
 In North America, Tesla vehicles come with this unique connector, while in Europe, they use a modified connector that is compatible with Tesla Superchargers and public charging stations.
Editors' Recommendations Cadillac aims to balance its lineup with a small electric SUV The Hyundai Ioniq 5 N makes one of the coolest EVs ready for the track Lucid joins other automakers by adopting Tesla charging plug Toyota joins ‘the Tesla plug’ club Tesla’s Cybertruck finally gets a delivery date Cars While U.S. firms like Waymo and Cruise focus on ridesharing services with their autonomous vehicles, the United Arab Emirates' coastal city of Dubai is aiming to take the technology to another level by deploying it in police patrol cars.
Dubai Police recently announced plans to use fully electric, self-driving patrol cars in residential areas, local media reported this week.
Cars An autonomous vehicle (AV) operated by Cruise ran over a pedestrian in San Francisco on Monday night just after she’d been hit by another car, the San Francisco Chronicle reported.
According to witnesses, the force of the initial impact knocked the woman into the path of the Cruise robotaxi, leaving her pinned under one of its wheels. The driver in the other car reportedly fled the scene.
Cars Electric vehicles are becoming more and more commonplace, with the best electric cars making us rethink the way we get around. They won’t get far without an EV charger, however, and these can be a good way to find some savings, as even the best car chargers will often see a discount. That’s certainly the case right now, as there are a lot of EV chargers available at a discount. So whether you’ve just gotten a new electric vehicle or you’re considering something new for the garage, these are the best electric car charger deals available right now.
Shockflo EV charger — $300, was $320 This EV charger by Shockflo is a Level 2 EV charger, which offers six times faster charging than a standard charger. It delivers 24 miles with just one hour of charging, and it can act as a mobile charger you can throw in the trunk or be mounted to a wall. It has an LCD display with useful information like charging rate, voltage, and charging time, as well as LED indicator lights that lets you know charging progress and errors.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
