Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Tesla Supercharger Reset Screen in Tesla Tesla Phone Tesla Roadster Tesla Model X vs Tesla Model Y Tesla Optimus Tesla Destination Chargers Home Cars Guides Is Tesla Full Self-Driving worth it? By Christian de Looper Close While many electric cars offer advanced driver assistance tech these days, most of those boil down to a few different technologies working together — like lane-keeping and adaptive cruise control. Generally, they work quite well. Together, they can essentially allow a car to drive itself on the highway under the right conditions. But companies are also working on the next generation of self-driving cars, and there’s been no company more public about this than Tesla, which offers its Full Self-Driving tech.
What is Tesla Full Self-Driving? Is Tesla Full Self-Driving worth it? But while Tesla Full Self-Driving is available to customers, it’s far from free. At the time of this writing, Tesla offered Full Self-Driving through a one-time payment of a hefty $15,000, or as a $200-per-month subscription. Neither of those is cheap, and as such you might be wondering whether or not it’s worth the money.
The consensus? It’s probably not worth it for you — but some might still want to buy it anyway.
Tesla says Cybertruck resellers could face harsh penalties Lucid joins other automakers by adopting Tesla charging plug Cruise’s robotaxi service suspended by California regulator What is Tesla Full Self-Driving? Tesla Tesla Full Self-Driving (FSD) is an advanced driver-assistance system that uses a combination of hardware and software to enable a vehicle to navigate on its own in various traffic situations. The system makes use of an array of cameras, ultrasonic sensors, radar, and computers to interpret the surrounding environment, making real-time decisions to control the vehicle’s acceleration, braking, and steering.
There are a few things that set the tech apart from Tesla’s other autonomous driving modes though. The cheapest is Tesla Autopilot, which is basically adaptive cruise control combined with a lane-keeping assistant — features that many other cars have. Next up is Enhanced Autopilot, which includes features like Auto Lane Change, Autopark, and Summon, which allows the driver to summon the car to their location in a parking lot. These are much more advanced features.
Full Self-Driving, however, takes that a step further. FSD allows the car to identify stop signs and traffic lights, and will soon allow the car to steer on its own in city streets.
It’s important to note that drivers are still always required to be in control of a car, even when using these modes. Current regulations mean that the driver is responsible for the car’s behavior whether it’s in Autopilot, FSD, or any other mode.
Of course, that makes the name “Full Self-Driving” a little confusing. Tesla has been criticized for naming the tech Full Self-Driving, when in reality the tech cannot fully drive the car yet. It will likely be a while before the tech can handle all driving modes, and it will be a while before the law allows drivers to fully give control over to the car itself.
Is Tesla Full Self-Driving worth it? Tesla So is Tesla Full Self-Driving worth it? Well, it’s complicated. The fact is that Full Self-Driving is actually still in beta, which means that while Tesla is charging customers to use it, it’s still being developed and refined, and it will make mistakes. That means that it’s more experimental than something that you’ll be able to fully use to be more productive or to save you time.
In other words, most people should avoid spending the cash on Tesla Full Self-Driving right now. But it could still be useful for some drivers. If you’re really interested in testing out the latest and greatest autonomous driving tech, have some (or a lot) of cash to spare, and don’t mind the fact that the tech isn’t fully developed yet, then perhaps it’s worth considering checking out full self-driving, just for fun. But if you could stand to save some money, then you should consider simply continuing to drive your Tesla on your own.
Editors' Recommendations Tesla U-turns on controversial rule for Cybertruck resellers Cruise woes prompt production halt of fully driverless van Watch how Tesla’s Cybertruck handles a compound bow’s arrow Toyota joins ‘the Tesla plug’ club Tesla’s Cybertruck finally gets a delivery date Tesla Cars While U.S. firms like Waymo and Cruise focus on ridesharing services with their autonomous vehicles, the United Arab Emirates' coastal city of Dubai is aiming to take the technology to another level by deploying it in police patrol cars.
Dubai Police recently announced plans to use fully electric, self-driving patrol cars in residential areas, local media reported this week.
Cars Robotaxi leader Waymo is expanding its ridesharing service area in San Francisco.
The Alphabet-owned company announced move on Monday in a message on X, the social media platform formerly known as Twitter. It means that more riders can now take trips in Waymo’s driverless vehicles within a 47-square-mile area of the city.
Cars The Tesla Model 3 has long been one of the best electric cars out there, especially for drivers who want a high-quality car without paying a ton of cash. The Model 3 boasts a great range, along with awesome tech features and minimalistic design, all of which have helped make it a top-selling electric car.
But to date, it hasn’t evolved much. The car has been around for six years now, with thefirst deliveries of the original Model 3 coming in late 2017. But now it’s getting a face-lift. The updated car, code-named Highland, has been announced, and it offers a range of upgrades over the current-generation Tesla Model 3.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
