Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Cars Guides 9 longest-range plug-in hybrids: get the best of both worlds By Christian de Looper Close All-electric cars are here and becoming increasingly available, but not everyone is ready to make the jump to an EV. After all, while EVs are cheaper to run and maintain , they also require you spend the time and effort to charge them — and on longer drives, that can be a bit of a pain. That’s exactly where plug-in hybrid electric vehicles (PHEVs) come in.
Polestar 1 Toyota Rav4 Prime Volvo S60 Recharge Volvo S90 Recharge Lexus NX450h+ Ford Escape Plug-in Hybrid Volvo XC60 Recharge Volvo XC90 Recharge Hyundai Tucson Plug-In Hybrid Plug-in hybrids offer the best of both worlds. They have an electric motor and a battery to allow you to drive without using any gas, and they have an engine and gas tank to allow you to drive using gas. The result? Often, you can get around town and to work and back without using any gasoline — only engaging the gas engine when you’re driving longer distances. That means that you don’t have to stop and charge when you don’t want to.
PHEVs, however, also have a shorter electric range than dedicated EVs. And if you’re buying one, you might want to know if it can actually get you to where you need to go on battery power. That’s why we’ve put together this guide on the nine plug-in hybrids with the longest range.
Mercedes-AMG shifting gears with a variety of hybrids and EVs on their way The best hybrid SUVs Lincoln Corsair Grand Touring adds plug-in hybrid power Polestar 1 Ronan Glon Polestar tops this list with the Polestar 1.
 Polestar is a relatively new company that’s owned by Volvo, and it’s best known for its fully electric cars. Its first car, however, the PHEV Polestar 1, was only a step toward going fully electric.
The Polestar 1 has a 52-mile electric range, which should be more than enough for most people to get to and from work every day. In fact, it should be enough for some weekend errands and local trips as well. Plus, the car is sleek and stylish, so you won’t be sacrificing much in terms of aesthetics. The only downside is that the car isn’t cheap, and it may no longer be available new, since Polestar has introduced its newer all-electric models, the Polestar 2 and the Polestar 3.
Toyota Rav4 Prime Stephen Edelstein/Digital Trends Next up on the list is the Toyota Rav4 Prime.
 This is arguably one of the best plug-in hybrid cars currently on the market, and it’s ideal for those who want the convenience of an all-electric car, but also want the flexibility of an SUV The Rav4 Prime has a 42-mile range, which should be enough for a lot of people’s regular commute. Plus, it’s still a Rav4, so it offers the same roomy interior, SUV style, and off-road capabilities you know and love. The starting price of $42,340 is higher than some of the other options on this list, but you get a lot for the money.
Volvo S60 Recharge Volvo Next up is one of Volvo’s offerings, the S60 Recharge. Volvo has been doing great in the electrification space, and this plug-in hybrid is a testament to that.
The S60 is a sedan-sized plug-in hybrid, and it offers up to 41 miles of electric range. It’s smaller than some of the other cars on the list, but it’s great for those who want a sedan. It’s also not necessarily cheap, with a starting price of $51,250.
Volvo S90 Recharge Volvo Next on the list is a cousin of the S60, the Volvo S90 Recharge. This is a larger car than the S60, so it’s great for those who want a bit more space, but it still offers 38 miles of electric range — just three miles less than its little brother. The S90 is a sedan, but it has plenty of room for passengers and cargo, so it’s great for family trips and camping. The only downside is the steep $70,500 starting price, which could land you a very nice full EV.
Lexus NX450h+ Image used with permission by copyright holder Next up is the Lexus NX450h+, which is a great luxury plug-in hybrid model. It’s a sedan, and it has all the luxurious touches you would expect from a Lexus, such as leather seating and a panoramic moonroof. It also has an electric range of 37 miles, which isn’t bad — though not as high as some of the other options on this model. The only downside is that it’s a bit pricey, with a starting price of $58,655.
Ford Escape Plug-in Hybrid Image used with permission by copyright holder If you’re looking for an affordable SUV that offers plenty of range, then you should check out the Ford Escape Plug-in Hybrid. It starts at only $38,500, and it offers a roomy interior and sporty exterior. Plus, it has a range of 37 miles — just a bit shy of some of the much more expensive models on this list.
Volvo XC60 Recharge Image used with permission by copyright holder The next car on the list is another Volvo, the XC60 T8 Recharge Extended Range. This is a slightly more affordable SUV than other Volvo models, though it’s still not as affordable as the Ford Escape. It has a stylish exterior, starts at $57,200, and offers an electric range of 35 miles. That’s getting to the lower end of this list — but it’s still higher than the majority of plug-in hybrids out there.
Volvo XC90 Recharge Image used with permission by copyright holder Next up is another Volvo, the XC90 Recharge. This is a larger SUV, able to hold up to seven people, and it has the same electric range as the XC60 — 35 miles. However, this one is even more expensive than the XC60, starting at $71,900. As mentioned, for that higher price, you’ll get enough room for seven people in total — but it also offers some slightly more luxurious touches and features.
Hyundai Tucson Plug-In Hybrid Image used with permission by copyright holder Last but not least is the Hyundai Tucson Plug-In Hybrid. This is another SUV-sized plug-in hybrid, but it’s the most affordable one on this list, starting at only $35,400. It has 33 miles of electric range, which is the lowest one on this list, but it should still be enough for many people.
Editors' Recommendations 10 electric cars with the longest range The best hybrid cars Jeep’s plug-in hybrid Wrangler will silently prowl the great outdoors Honda’s new hybrid Fit is here, but will it jazz up the firm’s American range? 2020 Subaru Crosstrek gets more tech and a slight price bump Cars Car buyers may have claimed more than $70 million in electric car tax credits using ineligible vehicles, Bloomberg reports, citing a report from a United States Treasury Department watchdog. The program awards a tax credit of up to $7,500 for the purchase of new electric cars and lower amounts for plug-in hybrids.
The questionable tax-credit claims were found in 16,510 tax returns from a five-year period through 2018, according to an audit from the Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA). Returns from almost 240,000 taxpayers were reviewed as part of the audit, encompassing $1.4 billion in credits, according to Bloomberg. Exactly how taxpayers claimed credits for ineligible vehicles was redacted from the version of the audit obtained by Bloomberg, but the audit found that the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) isn't equipped to identify false claims.
Cars Previous Next Cars It's always important to know when to pick your battles. Automakers are working to lower emissions in order to meet stricter regulations, but they're not all following the same strategy. While many automakers plan to use a mix of hybrids and all-electric cars, General Motors and Volkswagen will skip hybrids in order to focus on going fully electric, according to The Wall Street Journal.
That's largely due to the massive amounts of money GM and VW plan on investing in all-electric cars. GM has said it will launch 20 all-electric models by 2023, including U.S.-market models for Chevrolet and Cadillac. VW has planned a family of electric cars based on its new MEB platform, including a reincarnated Microbus that's due in 2022. The German automaker is also launching numerous electric cars under its other brands, including Audi and Porsche.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
