Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Tesla Supercharger Reset Screen in Tesla Tesla Phone Tesla Roadster Tesla Model X vs Tesla Model Y Tesla Optimus Tesla Destination Chargers Home Cars Guides Tesla Cybertruck: rumored price, release date, specs and more By Ronan Glon and Christian de Looper Close Tesla First introduced in 2019, the Tesla Cybertruck is unlike any pickup we’ve ever seen. It’s electric, which isn’t entirely unusual, and frankly expected from Tesla, but its futuristic design makes it stand out from everything else on the road. Whether that’s a good or a bad thing is a matter of personal preference, and keep in mind we haven’t seen the final, production-bound version yet. Tesla often makes tweaks to its cars before production, however, we may not have to wait long — as Tesla says the truck will finally start shipping later this year.
Design Interior Specs Competitors Factory location Price Release date In the meantime, we’re taking a look at what it is, what it does, how much it will cost, and when cyber motorists will have the opportunity to get behind the wheel. We’re looking at its rivals, too, and the list grows on a regular basis.
Design Image used with permission by copyright holder Much has been said about the Cybertruck’s design, and there’s little we can add to the conversation. We’ve seen a few different builds of the Cybertruck through a combination of leaked and official images, but we still have yet to see a production version of the truck. We do know its body will be made with 30X cold-rolled stainless steel, which fends off dents and rust, and its glass panels will reportedly be bulletproof.
 It will also offer a 6.5-foot cargo box that Tesla refers to as a vault.
Tesla U-turns on controversial rule for Cybertruck resellers Lucid joins other automakers by adopting Tesla charging plug Kia EV5: rumored pricing, design, range, features, and more You can call it a vault, a box, or a bed. Either way, it will be topped by a tonneau cover strong enough to stand on, and Tesla says it’s planning to release a range of accessories for workers, adventurers, and anyone in between. Owners will be able to add a camper top and a pop-out kitchen to the Cybertruck, for example. On-board power outlets that draw electricity from the battery pack will allow passengers to power tools and devices off the grid. Tesla also outlined an onboard air compressor. Its truck is shaping up to be one of the more versatile models on the market.
It’s too early to tell what Tesla will change, but we know its design team has already made tweaks to the truck. Prototypes have been spotted as recently as February with tweaks to the design. However, even that model likely won’t be the final version, as it was shown with one large windshield wiper, which CEO Elon Musk has said won’t make it to the production version.
Interior Image used with permission by copyright holder Since this is a prototype, what you see above isn’t necessarily what you’ll get when production starts.
Tesla says that the Cybertruck will offer a spacious cabin with six seats and a big storage bin under the rear bench. Its dashboard is an exercise in minimalist design that looks like an evolution of the layout seen in the Model 3 and the Model Y. There’s a yoke steering wheel, though that’ll likely be an option, a 17-inch screen that runs the new version of Tesla’s infotainment system, and not much else. It’s reasonable to assume features found on the company’s current crop of cars, like in-car gaming and video streaming, will be available, though odds are you’ll need to pay monthly for them.
Specs Image used with permission by copyright holder Of course — the level of awesomeness depends on the version you look at. The entry-level variant is equipped with a single motor that drives the rear wheels. It tows 7,500 pounds, takes 6.5 seconds to reach 60 mph from a stop, and delivers approximately 250 miles of range. Tesla does not publish specifications about its batteries.
Move up in the hierarchy, and you’ll find the midrange version with two electric motors (one per axle) for all-wheel drive, a 10,000-pound towing capacity, a 4.5-second sprint to 60 mph, and about 300 miles of range. Last but not least, the triple-motor flagship model tows 14,000 pounds, rockets to 60 mph in 2.9 seconds, and boasts about 500 miles of range. Remember, the Cybertruck is not in production, so these numbers are merely goals at this point. They’re not set in stone, and they haven’t been proven or tested for miles on end in real-world conditions.
Ground clearance checks in at up to 16 inches, thanks in part to an adaptive air suspension that’s standard regardless of how the truck is configured. Tesla is dialing in approach and departure angles of 35 and 28 degrees, respectively. Autopilot will come standard, though it will not make the truck autonomous; it’s a driver-assistance system.
Competitors Image used with permission by copyright holder It’s hard to truly compare the Cybertruck with the F-150 Lightning, the electric version of the F-150, considering the Cybertruck isn’t available yet. That said, the Cybertruck will seemingly be aimed at heavier models.
“While we have not yet begun production of the Cybertruck, we expect it to have a towing capacity of 7,500 to 14,000-plus pounds, and it should very likely qualify as a Class 2B-3 medium-duty vehicle,” explained Sarah Van Cleve, the company’s senior managing policy advisor, in a letter written to California’s Air Resources Board (ARB).
That’s legal jargon for a truck with a gross vehicle weight rating (GVWR) of 8,501 to 10,000 pounds, which is a level above the F-150 Lightning, sitting in at 8,250 to 8,550 pounds. If the specs don’t change, the Cybertruck will land in the same segment as medium-duty rigs like the Ford F-250, the Ram 2500 , and the Chevrolet Silverado/GMC Yukon 2500 twins.
If the early-announced pricing of the Cybertruck is true, however, it’ll start at a lower price than the F-150 Lightning. The base model of the Cybertruck is set to start at $39,000 — while the F-150 Lightning starts at around $60,000.
Factory location Image used with permission by copyright holder In July 2020, Musk announced that the Cybertruck will be built in a Gigafactory in Austin, Texas.
The Austin Gigafactory doesn’t just build the Cybertruck, it also builds the Model Y and is Tesla’s global headquarters.
Price Tesla At launch, Tesla will make three variants of the Cybertruck available. The entry-level, rear-wheel-drive model carries a base price of $39,000. The midrange model starts at $49,000, while the triple-motor range-topper costs $69,000.
There’s a chance that the Tesla Cybertruck will qualify for the federal tax credit when it is eventually released. Currently, the requirements are that a vehicle has to be under $80,000, be made in North America, and meet the EPA requirements for batteries and critical minerals. That said, eligibility for the tax credit has shifted a number of times, so we’ll have to wait and see if the Cybertruck is eligible when it’s eventually released.
Release date Cody Simms/Twitter Anyone with $100 to spare can reserve a Cybertruck by logging on to Tesla’s official website. Making a reservation is not a binding agreement to buy a Cybertruck when production starts; it’s more or less a refundable, commitment-free way to register your interest. Tesla will ask reservation holders to confirm their interest closer to the start of production, which is currently penciled in for late 2023, though delays are possible.
Editors' Recommendations The Lucid Gravity has more range than any other electric SUV Tesla says Cybertruck resellers could face harsh penalties Watch how Tesla’s Cybertruck handles a compound bow’s arrow Kia EV4: design, rumored pricing, release date, and more Toyota joins ‘the Tesla plug’ club Tesla Cars Tesla CEO Elon Musk behind the wheel of a Cybertruck in August. Tesla Tesla has finally revealed the delivery date for the Cybertruck: November 30.
Cars The Tesla Model 3 has long been one of the best electric cars out there, especially for drivers who want a high-quality car without paying a ton of cash. The Model 3 boasts a great range, along with awesome tech features and minimalistic design, all of which have helped make it a top-selling electric car.
But to date, it hasn’t evolved much. The car has been around for six years now, with thefirst deliveries of the original Model 3 coming in late 2017. But now it’s getting a face-lift. The updated car, code-named Highland, has been announced, and it offers a range of upgrades over the current-generation Tesla Model 3.
Cars Slowly, but surely, Mercedes-Benz is building electric versions of all of its different cars -- and it looks like a smaller electric G-Wagon may be coming up soon. Mercedes first announced an all-electric EQG in 2021, but even before the car is officially available to buy, the company is already planning a baby one too, affectionately dubbed the "Little G." There's still a lot we don't know about the smaller electric G-Wagon. Here, however, is everything we do know so far.
Design Design is a huge part of what makes a G-Wagon a G-Wagon. Because of that, it's almost certainly something that Mercedes won't compromise on.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
