Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Cars Guides Big EVs are almost here: 7 upcoming electric SUVs we’re excited for By Christian de Looper Close SUVs are all the rage. So are EVs. It makes sense, therefore, that the Tesla Model Y is the world’s best selling car.
 But that begs the question — how much of the Tesla Model Y being so popular is just because of the fact that it’s one of the very few large-size electric cars out there? Lucid Gravity Kia EV9 Chevrolet Equinox EV Ford Explorer EV Hyundai Ioniq 7 Lotus Eletre Volvo EX90 Well, we’re about to find out. A number of electric SUVs have been announced, and many will be released in the very near future. This is far from a list of all the upcoming electric SUVs — but it is a list of the ones we’re most excited about.
Lucid Gravity Lucid / Lucid Motors The Lucid Air is one of the most exciting electric cars of the last few years — and the Lucid Gravity could be even better. There’s still a lot we don’t know about the Lucid Gravity, but we do know that it will be a two-row SUV with an option for a third row and that it’ll enter production in late 2024. That means that it’s still probably a while before the car is available to the masses. The Gravity is expected to offer the same luxurious interior and high-tech features as the Air but in a larger body.
The car won’t be in Model Y price territory, though. The company is following the Tesla model — which means launching expensive, luxury cars before affordable ones. That puts the Gravity on par with the Model X.
 We don’t yet know exactly how much the Lucid Gravity will cost, but we expect it to be north of $100,000.
Kia EV9 Kia / Kia If you’re looking for something a little more affordable, then the EV9 might be more interesting to you. To be clear, the EV9 barely qualifies as “upcoming” — it’s already available in South Korea, and will roll out to the U.S. in the fourth quarter of 2023.
The EV9 is essentially the larger version of the much-loved EV6. It’ll offer three rows of six, equating to either six or seven seats, depending on your model. Of course, it’ll also bring that large SUV design, with more cargo space, and a higher ride. It’s expected that the car will offer up to around 300 miles of range, and will charge at a super-fast 350kW.
Chevrolet Equinox EV Chevrolet The EV9 may be more affordable than the Lucid Gravity, but if you’re truly looking for an affordable electric SUV, then the Chevrolet Equinox may be the new car for you.
The Equinox EV is expected to start at around an impressive $30,000, while still boasting a good-looking design and a decent range. That range has yet to be announced, but we’re expecting up to 300 miles — which puts it on par with many of the other best electric cars out there.
Ford Explorer EV Ford The much-loved Explorer is getting the electric treatment too. Ford is launching an electric Explorer for the 2024 model year, and it’ll offer five seats and a high-tech interior for less than $50,000. Unfortunately, little information about the Explorer EV’s range and battery, and it has really only been announced for Europe. That said, it’s very likely to make its way to North America at some point, even if that’s still a few years away.
Hyundai Ioniq 7 Hyundai / Hyundai The Ioniq 7 is to the Ioniq 5 what the EV9 is to the EV6. In other words, it’s a highly anticipated electric SUV that builds on one of the most-loved electric cars out there. The Ioniq 7 is expected to offer a relatively interesting and unique design, with three rows of seats and the same E-GMP platform that gives the Ioniq 5 up to 300 miles of range. We’ll have to see how much range the Ioniq 7 offers in the end, and if it truly offers the “living room on wheels” aesthetic that Hyundai promises.
Lotus Eletre Lotus / Lotus Maybe you’re looking for a little more luxury, in which case the Lotus Eletre may be the SUV for you. The Eletre is a high-performance SUV that’s built for a luxurious experience and excellent power under the hood. The top-spec R model of the car offers an impressive 905 horsepower, and will likely hit 60 miles per hour in under 3 seconds, making it a pretty zippy car around town. The Eletre has a maximum range of 373 miles, too, which is quite impressive.
Volvo EX90 Volvo For something a little more practical, the Volvo EX90 may be worth considering. The EX90 comes with seven seats, making it a great choice for larger families, plus it boasts that much-loved Volvo design. The car offers up to 300 miles of range, which is quite good — however, you’ll likely have to upgrade to get that much. It also has a ton of tech features, and it’s the first to feature Volvo’s new advanced driver-assist system, which should allow it to self-drive on the highway.
Editors' Recommendations The Lucid Gravity has more range than any other electric SUV Cars Lucid Motors has become the latest automaker to announce that it will adopt the North American Charging Standard (NACS) – also known as "the Tesla plug" – for its electric vehicles.
The move follows in the footsteps of more than a dozen other automakers that have also adopted Tesla’s charging connector, among them General Motors, Ford, Toyota, BMW, Jaguar Land Rover, Volvo, and Honda.
Cars General Motors-owned Cruise has halted production of its fully driverless vehicle -- the Origin -- just over a week after it suspended robotaxi operations nationwide following a number of troubling incidents involving its cars.
The news was announced by Cruise CEO Kyle Vogt during a meeting with staff on Monday, according to Forbes, which obtained audio of the gathering.
Cars The Ram brand is finally taking an electrified approach, and by resurrecting the Ramcharger name, no less. Alongside the new 2025 Ram 1500, the company has unveiled the new 2025 Ram 1500 Ramcharger, a new plug-in hybrid that Ram touts as offering "unlimited battery electric range." The new truck is one of a number of electrified trucks, the most well-known of which include the fully-electric Ford F-150 Lightning and the new Chevrolet Silverado EV. But instead of being fully electric, the 1500 Ramcharger is a plug-in hybrid, meaning that it has an electric motor and battery, and a gas tank and engine.
The plug-in approach It's perhaps a smart move. Electric trucks show a lot of promise -- but they start to falter a little when it comes to things like towing and hauling heavy loads. Keeping the 1500 Ramcharger a hybrid means that with no load or light ones, the truck can zip around town on electric power -- and when necessary, it can switch the engine on to tow or haul. It could well be the perfect combo for many truck owners who at least occasionally need that extra oomph, but who still could stand to save some cash -- and go a little easier on the environment - when simply driving around town.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
