Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Cars Guides Volvo EX30 price, range, release date, specs, and more By Christian de Looper Close Image used with permission by copyright holder The budget EV market is seriously heating up. While it turns out that the Chevrolet Bolt EV isn’t long for this world, there’s a new low-cost electric car in town, and it’s set to make more affordable electric cars a whole lot more stylish. The Volvo EX30 “small SUV” has yet to be released to the public, but already many EV shoppers are considering it for their next car, considering its low price, solid range, and stylish design.
Volvo EX30 price Volvo EX30 release date Volvo EX30 colors and models Volvo EX30 charging speed and range Volvo EX30 performance Volvo EX30 tech features Our Volvo EX30 wishlist Curious about the Volvo EX30? We’ve been keeping an eye on the EX30’s announcements and release, and can’t wait for it either. Here’s everything we know about the Volvo EX30 so far.
Volvo EX30 price Image used with permission by copyright holder The Volvo EX30 is an attractive car, but one thing that makes it even more attractive is its low price. So how much does it cost? Volvo announced that it’ll start at $34,950, which makes it one of the most affordable electric cars on the market right now.
Kia EV4: design, rumored pricing, release date, and more Big EVs are almost here: 7 upcoming electric SUVs we’re excited for 2025 Buick Electra: rumored price, release date, range, and more Of course, many drivers will want to upgrade to models other than the base model, and doing so will of course add cost. So, unless you’re really looking to spend the least possible on an electric car, expect to pay a little more than that base price, especially if you want a longer range, faster performance, or all-wheel drive. We don’t yet know how much those upgrades will cost, but for some context, the cost of a Kia EV6 jumps up by $10,000 when you move from the RWD base model to the AWD model.
Will the Volvo EX30 be eligible for a $7,500 federal tax credit? Unfortunately, the EX30 will not qualify, because it will be built in China. The Inflation Reduction Act stipulates a number of requirements for eligibility , including final assembly in North America.
Volvo EX30 release date The Volvo EX30 may have been announced, but it’s not available for purchase just yet. U.S. buyers can, however, reserve a place in line with a $500 refundable deposit if they want. Deliveries will begin in the summer of 2024, and buyers will be able to configure their cars in the fall of 2023.
Volvo is releasing a Cross Country model of the EX30 too, however, that model won’t be available until the end of 2024.
Volvo EX30 colors and models Image used with permission by copyright holder Like most modern cars, the EX30 will be available in a series of different models and colors. In other words, you’ll be able to customize the car to your needs when you buy — however, doing so may increase the cost a little.
The base model of the EX30 is a single-motor variant with a so-called “standard range” battery, but this model will only be available in select markets. One step up from there will give you the Single Motor Extended Range model, which, as the name suggests, keeps the single motor but gives the car a bigger battery for a longer range. Then there’s the Twin Motor Performance model, which keeps the longer-range battery, but uses that battery up a little quicker with a second motor for better performance.
The Volvo EX30 may be affordable, but it doesn’t skimp on performance.
There’s a fourth model too, though it won’t be available at launch. The EX30 Cross Country adds front, rear, and side skid plates, along with exclusive Cross Country badging and 19-inch wheels. Volvo hasn’t said what powertrain you’ll get with the EX30 Cross Country, but in all likelihood, it’ll be the dual-motor all-wheel drive variant.
The EX30 will be available in a number of different colors too. On the outside, there are five color variants, including Vapour Grey, Onyx Black, Moss Yellow, Crystal White, and Cloud Blue. On the inside, there are a few options too — Breeze, Mist, Pine, and Indigo. All of the exterior and interior color options are relatively tame, with the Moss Yellow definitely being the most distinct.
Volvo EX30 charging speed and range Model Charging speed Time from 10-80% Range Single-motor standard range 134kW 26 minutes 200 miles Single-motor extended range 153kW 26.5 minutes 275 miles Dual-motor extended range 153kW 26.5 minutes 265 miles The base model of the car, which is the standard range model with a single motor, offers a lithium iron phosphate (LFP) battery that costs less and lasts longer than standard nickel-manganese-cobalt (NMC) batteries but weighs more. This model will deliver a range of up to 200 miles, and is really built for day-to-day city use, and not for those who plan on taking the car on road trips. This variant can charge at 134kW, meaning it’ll take 26 minutes at this speed for the car to charge from 10% to 80%.
The other models offer lighter NMC batteries to help extend range. The result is that on the single-motor variant, you’ll get up to 275 miles of range, while on the dual-motor model, you’ll get 265 miles. Both of these models will be able to charge at up to 153 kW, and in ideal conditions will charge from 10% to 80% in 26.5 minutes.
Both of the battery packs can charge reasonably fast, though it’s unfortunate that Volvo isn’t yet offering cars that can charge at the ultra-fast 350kW speeds that you’ll get on cars like the Kia EV6 and Hyundai Ioniq 5.
Volvo EX30 performance Image used with permission by copyright holder The Volvo EX30 may be affordable, but it doesn’t skimp on performance. In fact, if you get the right model of the EX30, you’ll be getting the fastest production car that Volvo has ever made.
The single-motor model isn’t the fastest model, but despite the low price tag, it’s still a relatively quick car. The car achieves 284 horsepower and 253 lb-ft of torque and can reach 60 miles per hour in 5.1 seconds. Sure, it won’t compete with some of the faster and more expensive electric cars out there, but it should provide enough oomph for most drivers.
For drivers who want a little more pep, Volvo offers a dual-motor model with 422 horsepower and 400 lb-ft of torque. That will hustle you from 0 to 60 mph in 3.4 seconds, which makes it Volvo’s fastest production car ever. Among its electric peers, it will outrun Ford’s Mach-E GT Performance Edition (3.5s), but can’t quite hang with Tesla’s Model Y Dual Motor AWD (3.1s).
Volvo EX30 tech features Image used with permission by copyright holder The Volvo EX30 isn’t just affordable and fast, it’s also packed with great features. As you would expect from a modern Volvo car, the EX30 will come with Volvo’s infotainment system based on Android Automotive , meaning it’ll make use of Google Maps and other Google services. The car will also feature support for Apple CarPlay, so Apple fans won’t be stuck without options — and in fact, the EX30 will be the first Volvo car with wireless CarPlay connectivity.
 That’s all accessible through the 12.3-inch center screen.
The car comes with constant connectivity, with 5G connectivity where available. And, it’ll offer Volvo’s Park Pilot Assist feature, which allows the car to identify parking spots and park itself as the driver watches. With the feature, it can handle parallel, curved, perpendicular, and diagonal parking, making parking in smaller spaces a whole lot easier.
Our Volvo EX30 wishlist The Volvo EX30 comes with everything we would expect from a solid modern EV, and more considering its price range. At this point, our only main hope is that the upgraded models won’t charge too much of a premium over the base model, especially when it comes to the longer-range option — allowing customers to get a little more range from their car without having to pay more than necessary.
Editors' Recommendations Kia EV5: rumored pricing, design, range, features, and more Scout Motors Electric SUV: rumored price, release date, design, and more Rivian R2 compact SUV: Rumored price, release date, design, and more Tesla Cybertruck: rumored price, release date, specs and more Volvo unveils the electric 2022 C40 Recharge with Android-powered in-car tech Volvo Cars Mazda's first production electric car, the MX-30, uses a relatively small 35.5-kilowatt-hour battery pack. Mazda claims that it will allow up to 130 miles of driving per charge, which doesn't seem like much when many electric cars can achieve over 200 miles of range. But Mazda chose the small battery pack for a reason.
The MX-30's battery pack will achieve the lowest possible carbon emissions in terms of life cycle, Christian Schultze, head of Mazda Europe's research and development center, said in an interview with Automotive News Europe. While using a larger battery pack would increase range, it would also create substantially higher emissions, according to Schultze. Those increased emissions would come both from higher electricity consumption and manufacturing, according to Schultze.
Cars Lucid Motors has become the latest automaker to announce that it will adopt the North American Charging Standard (NACS) – also known as "the Tesla plug" – for its electric vehicles.
The move follows in the footsteps of more than a dozen other automakers that have also adopted Tesla’s charging connector, among them General Motors, Ford, Toyota, BMW, Jaguar Land Rover, Volvo, and Honda.
Cars General Motors-owned Cruise has halted production of its fully driverless vehicle -- the Origin -- just over a week after it suspended robotaxi operations nationwide following a number of troubling incidents involving its cars.
The news was announced by Cruise CEO Kyle Vogt during a meeting with staff on Monday, according to Forbes, which obtained audio of the gathering.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
