Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Cars News Acura’s resurrected ZDX SUV is an EV shortcut By Stephen Edelstein Close Acura is a little late to the EV game, but it’s found a clever way to catch up. Scheduled to start deliveries next year, the 2024 Acura ZDX is the luxury brand’s first EV, mixing Acura design elements and a mostly forgotten name from the brand’s recent past with General Motors Ultium hardware.
The original Acura ZDX was one of the first “SUV coupes,” combining the tall ride height of a traditional SUV with a low roof that was more form than function. While this subgenre of SUV later took off , the ZDX was not a sales success, lasting only from the 2010 model year to 2013.
The new, all-electric 2024 ZDX has much more conventional styling than its namesake — and many other EVs. Inspired by the Acura Precision EV concept unveiled last year, not much about the styling indicates that the ZDX is an EV except an exaggerated wheelbase length to accommodate the battery pack.
Acura This is also where the ZDX’s GM DNA starts to show through. As in all Ultium-based EVs , the wheelbase is keyed to the battery pack size. And the ZDX’s 121.8-inch wheelbase and 102-kilowatt-hour battery pack match the Cadillac Lyriq.
 However, Acura estimates single-motor rear-wheel drive versions of the ZDX will have 325 miles of range, compared to 314 miles for the Lyriq. Dual-motor all-wheel drive versions will max out at 315 miles, compared to the Cadillac’s 307 miles.
The Lucid Gravity has more range than any other electric SUV How do you crash-test an EV with an 871-pound battery? Mercedes showed us Volkswagen ID.GTI concept is another icon reimagined as an EV These numbers apply to the base ZDX A-Spec, which will make 340 horsepower in rear-wheel drive form, and an undisclosed amount of power with all-wheel drive. The higher-level ZDX Type S gets a performance-tuned dual-motor powertrain with 500 hp, although estimated range drops to 288 miles.
A maximum DC fast charging power rate of 190 kilowatts isn’t very impressive, but Acura estimates that will be enough to add 81 miles of range after 10 minutes of charging in the single-motor A-Spec model. The automaker will also offer an Acura Home Electrification online marketplace to help get owners set up with charging equipment and installers.
Previous Next 1 19 Acura Acura Acura Acura Acura Acura Acura Acura Acura Acura Acura Acura Acura Acura Acura Acura Acura Acura Acura The interior is decidedly Acura-like, with a hooded 11.0-inch digital instrument cluster and freestanding 11.3-inch touchscreen that runs wireless Apple CarPlay and Android Auto.
 In a first for Acura, and likely another example of GM’s influence , the ZDX gets Google built-in apps, including Google Maps, Google Assistant, and Google Play. Another new-to-Acura feature is the standard 18-speaker Bang & Olufsen audio system.
The expected array of driver-assist features comes standard under the Acura Watch banner, along with new-to-Acura rear cross traffic braking, blind zone steering assist, and rear pedestrian alert. The AcuraWatch 360+ system adds Hands Free Cruise, which appears to be a rebranding of GM’s Super Cruise system , and automated parking assist.
Pricing is expected to start in the $60,000 range for the base ZDX A-Spec, and in the $70,000 range for the sportier ZDX Type S. That puts the ZDX right in the heart of an electric luxury SUV market that includes not only the Lyriq, but also the Audi Q8 e-tron, Jaguar I-Pace, Mercedes-Benz EQE SUV , and the more rugged Rivian R1S.
Editors' Recommendations Cadillac aims to balance its lineup with a small electric SUV Watch your back, Tesla. Volvo’s EX30 just raised the bar on EV value Ford Mustang Mach-E Rally kicks up some dirt Don’t let these hidden EV fees catch you off guard (or deter you) Lanzador concept previews Lamborghini’s first EV Tech News Cars SUVs are all the rage. So are EVs. It makes sense, therefore, that the Tesla Model Y is the world's best selling car. But that begs the question -- how much of the Tesla Model Y being so popular is just because of the fact that it's one of the very few large-size electric cars out there? Well, we're about to find out. A number of electric SUVs have been announced, and many will be released in the very near future. This is far from a list of all the upcoming electric SUVs -- but it is a list of the ones we're most excited about.
Lucid Gravity Cars The massive Cadillac Escalade isn't exactly the picture of environmental friendliness, but General Motors is committed to expanding electrification to all corners of its product lineup — and that includes Cadillac's big, three-row full-size SUV.
The all-electric 2025 Cadillac Escalade IQ begins production next summer, applying the same formula from the Chevrolet Silverado EV and GMC Sierra EV pickup trucks to a full-size luxury SUV. The Escalade IQ uses the name of a current GM internal-combustion model, but is based on the automaker's Ultium EV component set, with an EV-specific body structure designed around a modular battery pack.
Texas-sized EV Cars Electric cars may be getting cheaper, but they're still not cheap. As such, many potential customers hope to factor in the up-to-$7,500 federal electric vehicle tax credit as a way to soften the blow of buying a new car.
But the federal EV tax credit has gone through a number if iterations, and it doesn't last forever. Not only that, but as it turns out, many electric cars simply aren't eligible for the credit, and it's important to keep that in mind if you plan on buying an electric car in the near future.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
