Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Cars News Ford Mustang Mach-E Rally kicks up some dirt By Stephen Edelstein Close Ford The Ford Mustang Mach-E electric SUV pushed the hallowed Mustang nameplate in a different direction, and it’s doing that again with a new performance variant. Debuting in 2024, the Ford Mustang Mach-E Rally is designed for fun on both pavement and dirt.
Rallying is a form of motorsport where drivers compete to set the quickest time over a course — usually a closed road or trail — rather than a dedicated racetrack that includes a variety of surfaces like dirt, gravel, or even snow. Rallying has inspired some epic performance road cars over the years, including the Subaru WRX, Mitsubishi Lancer Evolution, and Ford’s own Focus RS , but it’s never really been associated with the Mustang.
The Mach-E Rally borrows some rally-car styling cues, including spotlights set into the grille, a rear spoiler inspired by the Focus RS , and chunky 19-inch wheels. Ford also gave the Mach-E Rally a new front splitter the automaker claims improves clearance for the front end and added racing stripes and some contrasting exterior trim. Extra underbody shielding helps protect the motors from any gravel or other debris that gets kicked up.
Ford The Rally isn’t all show and no go, though. It uses a version of the dual-motor all-wheel drive powertrain from the Mach-E GT, with a targeted output of 480 horsepower and 650 lb-ft of torque. That’s the same amount of horsepower, but a bit more torque than the 600 lb-ft generated by the Mach-E GT and the 634 lb-ft of the GT Performance Edition. Ford expects the Rally to be quicker than the Performance Edition from zero to 60 mph, so under 3.5 seconds is the target.
The Ford Mustang Mach-E isn’t just getting cheaper, it’s getting better Ford halts reservations for its all-electric F-150 Lightning pickup President Biden drives Ford F-150 Lightning electric-truck prototype Ford also gave the Mach-E Rally unique suspension with a ride height raised 0.7 inches, upgraded brakes, a RallySport drive mode, and ditched the glass roof to shave weight from the top of the vehicle, helping to lower the center of gravity and improve handling. A special course was built at Ford’s Romeo, Michigan, proving ground for durability testing and tuning, with the WRX used as a benchmark, Donna Dickson, the Mustang Mach-E chief engineer, said in a media briefing ahead of the Mach-E Rally reveal.
The Mach-E Rally has the same Extended Range battery pack as the GT and GT Performance Edition, with 91 kilowatt-hours of usable capacity. However, Ford expects 250 miles of range, compared to 270 miles for the GT and 260 miles for the GT Performance Edition. A DC fast charge from 10% to 80% takes an estimated 36 minutes.
Previous Next 1 10 Ford Ford Ford Ford Ford Ford Ford Ford Ford Ford Like other Mustang Mach-E models, the Rally will be available with Ford’s BlueCruise hands-free driver-assist system. By the time it launches, the latest BlueCruise 1.3 version will be available, adding improved lane change assist and in-lane repositioning functions. Ford is also making changes to the user interface for the Mach-E’s 15.5-inch touchscreen, adding a camera button and moving temperature controls from the touchscreen to the physical knob at the bottom of the screen.
Ford plans to put the Mach-E Rally on sale in early 2024, with deliveries shortly thereafter. Pricing starts at around $65,000, which makes the Rally among the most expensive Mach-E models. But it will be a unique entry to the growing field of EV performance models that will soon include the Hyundai Ioniq 5 N and an electric Volkswagen GTI hot hatchback.
Editors' Recommendations Ford EV drivers can use 12,000 Tesla Superchargers starting in 2024 Modern cars take touch controls too far. This company found a balance 2022 Ford F-150 Lightning: America’s bestselling vehicle goes electric 2020 Chevrolet Camaro vs. 2020 Ford Mustang Audi’s electric 2022 Q4 E-Tron packs big tech, lots of space in compact package Ford Tech News Cars Audi traveled to the 2018 edition of the Los Angeles auto show to introduce a head-turning concept called E-Tron GT. Shortly after the unveiling, we learned that the sedan would reach production without major changes, and the company kept its promise. Unveiled online, the electric 2022 E-Tron GT is just as striking as the concept.
On a secondary level, it brings full electrification to the Audi Sport range for the first time. It's proudly positioned as one of the division's flagship models, and it blazes the path that future sports cars will follow in the coming years.
Wait, that's a production car? Cars For its first serious attempt at a mass-market electric car, Ford decided to launch a crossover SUV inspired by one of its most iconic models, the Mustang.
The 2021 Ford Mustang Mach-E will likely prove controversial with traditional fans, who are used to Mustangs having only two doors, with V8 engines under the hood. While the original Mustang is a stereotypical muscle car with decades of history, the Mach-E takes its place in a growing field of electric crossovers, competing with the Tesla Model Y and the upcoming Volkswagen ID.4 and Nissan Ariya.
Cars Electric cars may get most of the attention, but they’re not the only vehicles on the road. Delivery vans get more daily use than the average passenger car, and they’re the backbone of online commerce. With that in mind, the 2022 Ford E-Transit might be one of the most important vehicle launches of the year.
An electric version of the ubiquitous Ford Transit van, the E-Transit offers a zero-emission option to commercial fleets and, potentially, will lower the carbon footprint of your online shopping. It’s scheduled to go on sale in late 2021.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
