Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Cars Products Rivian R1T vs. Ford F-150 Lightning: electric pickup face-off By Christian de Looper Close All the electric car companies started with crossovers — and they’re now venturing out from there. We’re not only getting a better selection of smaller electric cars, but also bigger ones — and that includes electric trucks. The Rivian R1T has long been considered one of the best electric trucks out there, and for good reason. It’s modern, high-tech, and stylish. But there’s still something to be said for experience — and no one has more experience in building trucks than Ford.
Design Interior and tech Performance Pricing and availability Conclusion The standard Ford F-150 is known for its incredible sales in the U.S., and Ford is using that name for its electric truck too. The Ford F-150 Lightning takes the best things about the Ford F-150, and combines them with an electric motor and more modern tech.
But which is ultimately a better electric truck — the Rivian R1T or the Ford F-150 Lightning? Here’s what you need to know.
Rivian R1T gets estimated 410 miles of range with Dual-Motor powertrain, Max Pack battery Ford is only making 2,000 of these matte black F-150 Lightnings. Here’s your first look Rivian adds Snow Mode through software update just in time for winter Design The Rivian R1T is built to offer a new take on truck design — and it really doesn’t look like anything before it. The R1T boasts a light bar along the front, interrupted by two oval headlights that give the truck a unique touch. That wide light bar is matched at the back. Speaking of the back, the bed on the R1T is 54 inches long with the tailgate up, or 83.6 inches with the tailgate down. It’s 51.1 inches wide.
Christian de Looper / Digital Trends The Ford F-150 Lightning is far from an ugly truck, though. It may not look quite as unique as the Rivian, but it adds on the arguably classic design of the F-150 with a light bar along the front that extends down the sides a little. Because the F-150 Lightning takes its design inspiration from the standard model, you’ll find a faux grille at the front, and more typical-looking taillights in back. The bed on the truck measures 67.1 inches with the tailgate down, and 50.6 inches wide — so it’s a little larger than that on the Rivian.
While some buyers will prefer Ford’s staid styling, if we factor in innovation at all, Rivian is a clear winner here.
Winner: Rivian R1T Interior and tech The Rivian R1T is built to offer a modern driving experience, and that extends into the interior of the truck too. That modern experience centers around the 15.6-inch infotainment display, which is coupled with a 12.3-inch digital instrument cluster. Plenty of drivers have rated the R1T’s software as being quite good, especially when compared with the subpar software that most legacy automakers offer.
Apart from the tech, the R1T boasts five seats, with seat heating, ventilation, and power adjustments. It’s safe to say, the driver and passengers should stay relatively comfortable.
Stephen Edelstein / Digital Trends The interior of the Ford F-150 Lightning is slightly different. The Lightning also has a 15.5-inch touchscreen for infotainment — however by all accounts, the software loaded onto that screen isn’t quite as impressive as that on the Rivian. It does have one key advantage, though: Unlike the Rivian, the F-150 Lightning supports CarPlay and Android Auto. The Lightning also has five seats, and they’re also quite comfortable, with vinyl upholstery and heating. Manual adjustments come standard, with power-adjustable seats available as an option.
It’s nice that Ford offers CarPlay and Android Auto, but Rivian’s thoughtfully designed software simply does more for the in-cabin experience.
Winner: Rivian R1T Performance The Rivian R1T is available with three options. The base model is all-wheel drive through two motors, and it’s able to accelerate from 0 to 60 miles per hour in 4.5 seconds, offering 340 miles of range. It’s a step up from there for the “Performance” dual-motor model, which improves that acceleration time to 3.5 seconds, and offers 350 miles of range. Last but not least is the quad-motor all-wheel drive model, which gets to 60 mph in 3.0 seconds and has a range of 328 miles.
The Rivian R1T is rated as being able to tow up to 11,000 pounds — however you should expect a significant reduction of range if you do so. In fact, Car And Driver noted that switching the truck to Tow mode reduces range from 270 miles to just 103.
Christian de Looper / Digital Trends The Ford F-150 Lightning is no slouch, either. A number of different models offer range varying between 230 miles and 320 miles, and acceleration to 60 mph sitting at 4.0 seconds at most. The F-150 Lightning can tow up to 10,000 pounds — but again, it’ll severely impact your range.
Safe to say, the Rivian R1T offers a longer range and faster acceleration. It’s the better-performing car here.
Winner: Rivian R1T Pricing and availability The Rivian R1T is available right now, however, Rivian notes that delivery may take 16 weeks. It starts at $79,000 for the base model, and ranges up to $87,000 for the Quad Motor AWD model, without additional options.
The Ford F-150 Lightning is also available now, however like the Rivian, deliveries are expected to take a while. At the time of this writing, depending on the model, you could get an F-150 Lightning within between 1.5 and 2.5 months. The truck starts at $51,990, and ranges up to over $100,000 depending on the model you can get.
On starting price alone, Ford wins this one, and it’s no contest.
Winner: Ford F-150 Lightning Conclusion It can be hard to determine which electric truck is right for your needs. After all, the Ford F-150 Lightning starts at a much lower price — but it also has a lower range and worse performance overall. If you can afford it, it’s probably worth going for the more modern Rivian R1T — but if you need a little larger of a truck bed, or want to save some cash, the F-150 Lightning is a great electric truck.
Editors' Recommendations The F-150 Lightning excels at everything but one crucial truck task Rivian R1S vs. Kia EV9: Is the more expensive electric SUV really better? Electric trucks aren’t ready for the big leagues — but I still loved the F-150 Lightning 2022 Rivian R1S first drive review: An EV SUV fit for an expedition or a drag race 2022 Ford F-150 Lightning vs. 2024 Chevrolet Silverado EV Ford Versus Cars Ford has stopped taking reservations for its first electric F-150 pickup after hitting its cap of 200,000.
Each customer has paid a $100 deposit for the F-150 Lightning, which starts at $40,000, and Ford will now work to convert the reservations to orders.
Cars Rivian successfully launched production of the R1T, its first model, in a former Mitsubishi factory located in Normal, Illinois. Digital Trends drove the electric truck in September 2021 and loved it, but a new report suggests it will take some time before many buyers can do the same.
Several members of the Rivian Forums wrote that a representative for the young company had reached out to inform them of delivery delays. One said that his estimated delivery date was pushed back from October 2021 to February 2022; he added that the Guide the company assigned him blamed the setback on supply chain-related issues. Another user who claims to have placed a reservation for the R1T in February 2019 also wrote that Rivian moved the estimated delivery date from October 2021 to February 2022. Interestingly, that customer added that the Guide blamed the delay on quality control-related issues, though problems with the supply chain were also partly to blame.
Cars Rivian has joined the list of carmakers old and new who want to end Ford's 39-year reign over America's sales chart. While it's not a household name, at least not yet, it became the first company to release a mass-produced electric pickup in the United States. Sure, there have been others: Ford built an electric Ranger in the 1990s as a bit of an experiment. This is different: Rivian is aiming for volume.
The R1T is a four-door, five-seater model developed with adventurers and nature lovers in mind. It's closer in spirit to a Jeep Gladiator that you might see on a trail in Moab than to a Ford F-350 your utility company might use. It's new from the ground up, and it looks like one of the most attractive entries into this burgeoning segment -- Digital Trends put it through its paces on and off the pavement and walked away seriously impressed. Production has finally started so we're taking a look at what it is, what it does, how much it costs, and what's next.
What is it? Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
