Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Cars News Volkswagen ID.GTI concept is another icon reimagined as an EV By Stephen Edelstein Close Volkswagen Volkswagen reinvented one of its most iconic models with the ID.Buzz , a modern, all-electric homage to the classic Microbus.
 But that’s not the only fan favorite vehicle currently in the automaker’s catalog.
Debuting at the 2023 Munich Auto Show, the Volkswagen ID.GTI concept aims to do for the Golf GTI hot hatchback — VW’s signature performance car — what the ID.Buzz did for the Microbus. VW claims a production version has already been given the green light, although it won’t say when it will appear.
Now in its eighth generation, the Golf GTI revolutionized performance cars when it debuted in Europe in 1976 (it didn’t arrive in the U.S. until 1983, as the Rabbit GTI ) by imbuing the eminently practical Golf hatchback with more power and better handling, creating a car that was fun to drive, but also affordable and practical enough for daily use.
Volkswagen VW followed the same formula with the ID.GTI. The concept is based on the ID.2all , another concept car that was first shown in March. The ID.2all previews a production model VW plans to launch in Europe in 2025 with a targeted base price of 25,000 euros (just under $27,000 at current exchange rates).
How do you crash-test an EV with an 871-pound battery? Mercedes showed us Don’t let these hidden EV fees catch you off guard (or deter you) Acura’s resurrected ZDX SUV is an EV shortcut Like the Golf GTI, the ID.GTI puts sportier accents like big wheels and a rear spoiler onto sheet metal that mostly carries over from its base vehicle. That makes the ID.GTI look somewhat retro, because the ID.2all it’s based on already has some Golf-like styling cues, including short front and rear overhangs and a rear roof pillar angled toward the front of the car.
The interior includes plenty of references to the Golf GTI, including a new version of that car’s signature plaid seats, plus a sporty three-spoke steering wheel. A shifter with golf-ball dimples is another GTI tradition, but since VW used the column-mounted switch from the ID.7 sedan , it was transferred to the center-console knob that controls drive modes and other settings.
Previous Next 1 10 Volkswagen Volkswagen Volkswagen Volkswagen Volkswagen Volkswagen Volkswagen Volkswagen Volkswagen Volkswagen There’s plenty of tech as well, including an augmented reality head-up display that projects information onto the windshield, a 12.9-inch touchscreen, and a 10.9-inch digital instrument cluster that can be customized to look like the gauge clusters from classic GTI models.
Since it’s based on the ID.2all, the ID.GTI uses a simplified version of the MEB platform that underpins the ID.Buzz and ID.4 crossover SUV and is called MEB Entry. It’s also front-wheel drive, like the gasoline GTI. VW didn’t disclose powertrain specs, but said the powertrain can be configured to simulate vintage GTI models, including the original Mark I from 1976, a 1986 Golf GTI Mark II, or 25th anniversary edition of the Mark IV from 2001.
The production version of the ID.GTI likely won’t appear until at least 2025, when the production version of the ID.2all is scheduled to launch in Europe. Just as VW only sells the GTI (and its Golf R sibling) in the U.S. and not the base Golf, we may only get the GTI version of this EV. And with Hyundai preparing an N performance version of the Ioniq 5 , car enthusiasts have an electric hot-hatch duel to look forward to.
Editors' Recommendations Watch your back, Tesla. Volvo’s EX30 just raised the bar on EV value Volkswagen ID.4 vs Tesla Model Y Lanzador concept previews Lamborghini’s first EV Which cars still qualify for the $7,500 EV tax credit? Here’s the full list These new NASA EVs will drive astronauts part way to the moon (sort of) Tech News Cars Volkswagen is taking autonomous driving a little more seriously. While the likes of Tesla and Waymo have largely led the development of next-gen driving tech, the legacy automakers are certainly starting to invest more heavily. To that end, Volkswagen has announced its first autonomous driving program in the U.S.
As part of the program, Volkswagen has outfitted 10 all-electric ID. Buzz vans with autonomous driving tech, in partnership with autonomous car tech company MobileEye. Over the next few years, Volkswagen says it'll grow this fleet of autonomous cars to cover at least four additional cities, with the current fleet operating in Austin, Texas. By 2026, Volkswagen hopes to commercially launch autonomous cars in Austin.
Cars As someone who loves driving and has adored cars since before I could even walk, I’m definitely what you’d call an enthusiast, and this has always been reflected in my choice of car. I don’t think I’ve ever bought a “boring” or ordinary one. Recently, it came time to change my beloved older car to a newer one, so I went on a long mission to find the right one. In addition to loving cars, I also love tech, and would certainly consider myself a keen early adopter. Could an electric car (EV) be next, I wondered? It turns out that no, it could not. Despite approaching the decision with an open mind, I ended up buying a used gasoline-powered car instead -- probably one you wouldn't expect from a would-be EV buyer. This is how I came to that decision, why I’m glad I held off on an EV for now, and what I hope will change by the time I'm ready for my next ride.
Grocery getters need not apply Vauxhall Corsa e Image used with permission by copyright holder Cars Mercedes-Benz this week unveiled a new electric concept car that looks back as well as forward. It's called the Vision One-Eleven, and it's a reminder that car designers have a long history of predicting the future.
The Vision One-Eleven is inspired by the C111 series of experimental vehicles that first appeared in 1969. With their aerodynamic styling, roof-hinged gullwing doors, and distinctive orange paint, the C111 cars became fixtures of auto show stands and car-magazine features throughout the 1970s. They were more than show cars, though, testing then-trendy ideas like fiberglass body panels and rotary engines.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
