Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Cars Reviews 2022 Volkswagen ID. Buzz first drive review: The iconic hippie hauler goes electric By Ronan Glon Close Volkswagen’s growing family of ID-badged electric cars has a new mascot: the ID. Buzz. Inspired by the vintage air-cooled Bus models and previewed by a close-to-production concept unveiled in 2017, the heritage-laced van offers an electric powertrain, an eye-catching design, plus an interior that’s high-tech and almost lounge-like. I tested a Buzz prototype in England in February 2022 and walked away impressed, and time driving a regular-production model in and around Copenhagen, Denmark, confirmed these impressions. This was worth the wait.
Design and interior Tech, infotainment, and driver assist Driving experience Range and charging Worth the wait Design and interior While you can tell that the Buzz is on the same branch of the Volkswagen family tree as the split- and bay-window Buses prized by hippies decades ago, designers decided not to go full-retro as they did with the New Beetle released in 1997. The headlights aren’t round, for example, and they’re much higher than the original van’s. It’s the same story out back: The lights are horizontal, located right below the big hatch’s window, and connected by a light bar. This is intentional — Volkswagen aimed to echo the original model without cloning it.
Image used with permission by copyright holder In terms of proportions, the Buzz is pretty spot on. The front end isn’t entirely flat and the front doors are positioned behind the front wheels rather than over them, but the design is as close to the old van’s as modern regulations allow. The Buzz variant that I drove in Denmark measures 185.5 inches long, 78.1 inches wide, and 76.8 inches tall, so it’s about as long as a Tiguan but around 10 inches taller and five inches wider. This is what Volkswagen refers to as the short-wheelbase model, and it’s not coming to the United States. We’ll get a long-wheelbase model that hasn’t been unveiled yet; it should look just like the European-spec model but with more space between the front and rear axles.
Volkswagen ID.GTI concept is another icon reimagined as an EV Mercedes-AMG EQE SUV first drive review: a better electric SUV Volkswagen ID.7 shows not every EV needs to be an SUV Predictably, the interior went through roughly the same toning down process as the exterior as the Buzz morphed into a production model. Up front, you’ll find a pair of individual seats mounted relatively high, a 5.3-inch digital instrument cluster that looks like the one fitted to the ID.3 hatchback sold in Europe and the ID.4 crossover , and a 10-inch touchscreen for the infotainment system (a 12-inch unit is optional). Sliding open the rear doors reveals a two-piece folding rear bench, kid-approved folding tray tables integrated into the front seatbacks, and one of several Easter eggs scattered across the cabin: the Buzz’s outline on the piece of trim that covers each outer seat’s sliding mechanism.
Image used with permission by copyright holder There’s another Easter egg right at the driver’s feet: The accelerator and brake pedals are labeled play and pause, respectively. This is a neat touch that we’ve seen on a wide selection of ID models, including the cool ID Buggy concept that I drove in sunny California in 2019.
Tech, infotainment, and driver assist Volkswagen and Pennsylvania-based Argo AI are jointly developing an autonomous, Buzz-based prototype tentatively due out in 2025. We’re not there yet, and the Buzz doesn’t drive itself in spite of its futuristic design, but it offers a generous list of technology features. Car2X technology relies on swarm data to send warnings to nearby compatible vehicles, and the optional Travel Assist function analyzes this same set of data to keep the Buzz centered in its lane even when one of the markings is missing. The Buzz can change lanes on its own in the right conditions, though I didn’t get to test out this feature, and drivers can teach the Park Assist Plus system up to five parking maneuvers.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The infotainment system is relatively straightforward; Volkswagen designed it to look and feel like a tablet. It’s reasonably easy to use, it offers sharp-looking graphics, and it responds relatively quickly to input. The touch-sensitive sliders located directly below the screen are a different story. They let the front passengers control the volume and the various climate control functions, and they help give the dashboard a clean and uncluttered look, but they take some getting used to. Old-fashioned buttons and knobs would arguably be more intuitive.
Driving experience Volkswagen went to significant lengths to remove as many buttons from the dashboard as possible. Only a handful remain, including one used to start the electric motor. Rear-mounted, it draws electricity from an 82-kilowatt-hour lithium-ion battery pack to send 204 horsepower and 229 pound-feet of torque to the rear wheels via a single-speed transmission. That’s enough for a 10.2-second zero-t0-62-mph time, and Volkswagen limited the Buzz’s top speed to 90 mph. While those figures aren’t jaw-dropping, the Buzz feels relatively quick off the line (especially considering it’s a big box that weighs about 5,447 pounds) because the electric motor delivers instant torque.
It looks like a van, it’s marketed as a van, it feels like a van, but it doesn’t drive like a van.
Spending time behind the wheel of a regular-production Buzz confirmed my initial impressions: it looks like a van, it’s marketed as a van, it feels like a van, but it doesn’t drive like a van. It feels more like a crossover, and that’s a good thing. Sitting high with a good view of the road ahead, you’re surrounded by a tremendous amount of space; that’s par for the course in the van world. What’s not is a low center of gravity that keeps body roll in check (the heavy battery pack is stuffed under the floor) and a turning radius that’s on par with a Golf’s. Maneuvering a van in a big European city is normally the automotive equivalent of a horror show; the Buzz takes a great deal of the stress out.
One of the main aspects that differentiates EVs in terms of the driving experience is how the powertrain handles energy recuperation. Some carmakers eschew one-pedal driving; others embrace it and let drivers dial in the amount of recuperation they prefer. Volkswagen’s approach is somewhere in the middle: The system is either on or off. Leave the gear selector in “D” and the Buzz coasts like a gasoline-powered car when you lift your foot off of the accelerator pedal. Twist it once into “B” mode and the brake energy recuperation system kicks in as soon as your foot comes off the pedal. One-pedal driving is possible on country roads but you’ll need to push the brake pedal to come to a full stop.
Range and charging Volkswagen hasn’t released the American-spec Buzz’s specifications so I’m providing the following figures for context. Built on an 82-kilowatt-hour lithium-ion battery pack, the European-spec van offers a maximum driving range of 263 miles when put through the European testing cycle, which returns higher numbers than the testing cycle used in America. Zapping the battery pack from 5% to 80% takes around half an hour if you can find a 170-kilowatt quick charger. If you’re the charge-at-home type, a full charge takes seven and a half hours.
Bi-directional charging is available, meaning the Buzz can store electricity from solar panels during the day and feed it back to your house. And, the available 230-volt (that’s the standard voltage in Europe) outlet allows it to power tools and appliances, even when it’s turned off.
Worth the wait It took Volkswagen over 20 years to release a modern-day interpretation of the original Bus but the wait was worth it. While the design isn’t 100% retro, the concept of carving out as much space as possible in a relatively small footprint is what made the Bus popular when it was new, and this idea lives on in the ID. Buzz. Comfortable and versatile, the ID. Buzz is to the Volkswagen brand what the New Beetle was in the late 1990s: a re-imagined icon that’s a flagship in terms of image and in terms of design, not in terms of price and positioning.
Deliveries on the European market will start before the end of 2022. Volkswagen will release details about the long-wheelbase American-spec ID. Buzz in the coming months and deliveries are tentatively scheduled to start in 2024. The wait isn’t over for everyone, then.
Editors' Recommendations Volkswagen ID.4 vs Tesla Model Y Lamborghini teases its first all-electric supercar ahead of Friday’s big reveal 2024 BMW i5 unveiled as the first electric 5 Series Mercedes-Benz EQE SUV first drive review: ’90s look, cutting-edge tech Hyundai Ioniq 6 first drive review: welcome to the future Cars Rolls-Royce Introduces Spectre: The World's First Ultra-Luxury Electric Super Coupé Rolls-Royce Motor Cars has taken the wraps off the Spectre, its first all-electric vehicle.
Cars If you want to see just how quickly the electric car landscape has changed over the past few years, take a look at the redesigned 2023 Kia Niro EV.
When the first-generation Niro EV launched for the 2019 model year (following hybrid and plug-in hybrid Niro variants), it was a pretty big deal. The Niro was Kia’s first EV not based on a conventional gasoline model, and the first intended for high sales volumes.
The second-generation 2023 Niro EV boasts more tech, more space, and more extroverted styling than its predecessor, but it’s still very much in the shadow of the Kia EV6. Once Kia’s main EV attraction, the Niro is being refocused as a more affordable option to take on the likes of the Chevrolet Bolt EV/Bolt EUV, Volkswagen ID.4, and Nissan Leaf.
Kia plans to offer the Niro EV in trim levels named Wind and Wave, but hasn’t released pricing for either. Note that the previous-generation 2022 Niro EV started at $41,245; the new model could see a price increase because of its updates. And because it’s assembled in South Korea, the 2023 Niro EV won’t qualify for the revamped federal EV tax credit, Kia has confirmed.
Design and interior Like the previous generation, the Niro is part of a three-pronged lineup that also includes the Niro Hybrid and Niro PHEV (plug-in hybrid models). All three maintain the tall-wagon shape of the first-generation Niro, but with much bolder styling.
Where the previous Niro was a wishy-washy mix of car and SUV styling elements, the 2023 Niro is the result of the same fearless design department that produced the EV6 and the 2023 Kia Sportage. The traditional automotive “face” was rearranged with a visor-like element, protruding grille, and hexagonal lighting elements. Contrasting trim panels break up the profile view, and conceal “Air Blade” elements around the taillights that, Kia claims, reduce aerodynamic drag.
Kia used sustainable materials to further decrease the Niro EV’s environmental impact.
Cars Mercedes-Benz aims to go all-electric in at least some markets by 2030 but to do that it will need to launch electric equivalents of each of its many gasoline-powered models. The 2023 Mercedes-Benz EQB fits that description to the letter.
Where the EQS sedan aims to fill a similar role to the S-Class without directly copying it, the EQB is literally an electric version of an existing Mercedes crossover SUV — the GLB-Class. It uses the same body shell as the GLB, even retaining that model’s optional third-row seats.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
