Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Cars Reviews 2022 Volvo C40 Recharge first drive review: EV fashion statement By Stephen Edelstein Close Stephen Edelstein/Digital Trends Volvo wants to go all-electric by 2030, but so far it’s taking small steps toward that goal.
Design and interior Tech, infotainment, and driver assist Driving experience Range, charging, and safety How DT would configure this car Our take Should you get one? The C40 Recharge is technically Volvo’s first dedicated electric model, as there won’t be a gasoline version. But the C40 Recharge is closely related to the Volvo XC40 , which is available with both gasoline and electric powertrains. It has the same basic platform and powertrain, as well as the same Android-based infotainment system. It even looks mostly the same as the XC40, with the main difference being a sleeker silhouette.
That stylistic flourish comes at quite a cost. The 2022 Volvo C40 Recharge starts at $59,845 — $7,050 higher than its electric XC40 Recharge sibling. That’s partly because, while the 2022 XC40 Recharge is expected to be offered in both Plus and Ultimate trim levels, the C40 Recharge is only available in the higher-level Ultimate spec. Both Volvos qualify for the $7,500 federal EV tax credit, and may qualify for additional state or local incentives, depending on where you live.
Lanzador concept previews Lamborghini’s first EV Mercedes-AMG EQE SUV first drive review: a better electric SUV Mercedes-Benz EQE SUV first drive review: ’90s look, cutting-edge tech Design and interior It’s not often that Volvo builds a car purely as a fashion statement, but that is the case with the C40 Recharge. Designers basically took an XC40 Recharge and chopped the roof down, giving the C40 a less-boxy profile similar to “SUV coupes” like the BMW X4 that puts it more in line with other electric SUVs like the Volkswagen ID.4 , Kia EV6, Ford Mustang Mach-E, and Tesla Model Y. However, none of those EVs can match the C40’s dramatically swept taillights, which flank a functional rear spoiler. The two bumps at the top of the roof provide real aerodynamic functionality as well, Volvo claims.
Other small differences, including a new front bumper and headlights, distinguish the C40 Recharge from the XC40 Recharge for now, but the XC40 is expected to get those same tweaks as part of an upcoming face-lift.
The interior design has the same simple yet stylish look we’ve come to expect from Volvo.
We expected the C40 Recharge’s curved roof to affect passenger space, but rear seat headroom is fairly close to that of the XC40 Recharge, which isn’t the most spacious EV around. However, the C40 Recharge has less cargo space than its sibling, as well as a smaller frunk. That’s not good, as the XC40 Recharge already lagged behind on cargo room compared to other similarly sized EVs.
Another big difference between the XC40 and C40 interiors is the latter’s use of sustainable materials. Unlike the XC40, you can only order the C40 with a leather-free interior. The upholstery is a mix of suede and a material called Microtech — both made from recycled PET plastic, the kind used in soda bottles. Those same discarded bottles are also the raw material for the carpets and dashboard trim, which has a cool topographical map pattern. The overall design has the same simple yet stylish look we’ve come to expect from Volvo. Who said sustainability and style can’t mix? Tech, infotainment, and driver assist Like the XC40 Recharge, the C40 Recharge gets a 9.0-inch touchscreen and 12.3-inch digital instrument cluster with the same Android Automotive OS infotainment system rolling out across the rest of Volvo’s lineup.
 It includes built-in Google Maps, Google Assistant, and Google Play Store connectivity, and Android users can sync their personal profiles to the car, providing more integration than basic Android Auto.
While it is Android-based, the infotainment system does support conventional Bluetooth pairing. Wi-Fi connectivity is available as well, but only through a separate Volvo Cars app. Volvo also said it will add Apple CarPlay connectivity via an over-the-air update by mid-2022.
We liked the layout of both the touchscreen, which can switch between a smartphone-like array of icons and a neat four-tile menu display, and the digital instrument cluster, which can display maps or dial back extraneous information in its Calm mode. The center-console tray housing a USB-C port, 12-volt outlet, and wireless charging pad was also very space efficient.
The touchscreen can switch between a smartphone-like array of icons and a neat four-tile menu display.
On the negative side, the Volvo’s touchscreen doesn’t look very impressive compared to the massive screens you can get today in some EVs from mainstream brands, such as the Ford Mustang Mach-E.
 It also seems like every time we get in a new Volvo, there are fewer physical controls. While that contributes to the elegant interior design, it also means digging into the screen menus or triggering a pop-up window to access certain functions, which isn’t very elegant. And while Google Assistant’s voice recognition is excellent, you can’t use it to switch SiriusXM satellite radio channels.
Like the XC40 Recharge, the C40 Recharge doesn’t have a start button. As long as the key fob is in the car, and a person is in the driver’s seat, it will start. Volvo also supplies a second orange Care Key fob, allowing owners to limit the top speed when others borrow the car. And the C40 Recharge gets the XC40 Recharge’s optional 13-speaker Harman Kardon audio system as standard equipment.
The C40 Recharge also gets Volvo’s full arsenal of driver-assist tech as standard equipment. That includes forward-collision warning, automatic emergency braking, oncoming mitigation by braking (automatically applies brakes when facing an oncoming vehicle), oncoming lane mitigation, lane-departure warning, lane-keep assist, blind-spot monitoring, rear cross-traffic alert, traffic-sign recognition, and a driver-attention monitor. Volvo’s Pilot Assist combines adaptive cruise control and automated lane centering, but it’s not as sophisticated as Tesla’s Autopilot, Ford’s BlueCruise , or General Motors’ Super Cruise.
Driving experience The C40 Recharge shares Volvo’s CMA (Compact Modular Architecture) platform with electric and gasoline versions of the XC40, as well as the Polestar 2 from Volvo’s spinoff brand. The powertrain carries over as well.
Like the electric XC40 Recharge and Polestar 2, the C40 Recharge uses one electric motor to power each axle, enabling all-wheel drive. Together, the two motors produce 402 horsepower and 486 pound-feet of torque. Volvo says the C40 Recharge will do zero to 60 mph in 4.5 seconds — 0.2 seconds quicker than the XC40 Recharge and 0.1 seconds behind the Polestar 2. Either way, that makes for a fairly quick car.
Our only issue was limited rear visibility through the tiny back window.
The C40 Recharge drove very similar to the XC40 Recharge, meaning it felt comfortable and refined, but not particularly sporty. Of the three CMA EVs, the Polestar 2 is supposed to be the driver’s car, after all. We were happy to sacrifice extreme cornering grip for the C40’s smooth ride, quiet cabin, and ability to make bumps disappear. Volvo also included a one-pedal driving mode, so you can recuperate maximum energy when decelerating (we recovered an indicated 2% charge while descending a steep hill). The only issue was limited rear visibility through the tiny back window — not a problem you’ll have in the XC40 Recharge.
Volvo also quotes a 2,000-pound maximum towing capacity. That’s not a lot but, short of the Rivian R1T pickup truck, most EVs still aren’t equipped for towing heavy loads.
Range, charging, and safety Like its Volvo XC40 Recharge and Polestar 2 platform mates, the C40 Recharge has a 78-kilowatt-hour lithium-ion battery pack with 75 kWh of usable capacity. That allows for 226 miles of range with efficiency ratings of 87 MPGe combined (97 MPGe city, 80 MPGe highway). That’s a bit better than the XC40 Recharge, which is rated at 223 miles of range and 85 MPGe combined (92 MPGe city, 79 MPGe highway).
However, despite being somewhat sportier, the dual-motor Polestar 2 is rated at 249 miles of range and 89 MPGe combined (94 MPGe city, 84 MPGe highway). An available single-motor version of the Polestar 2 sacrifices all-wheel drive and some power, but pushes range to 270 miles (a single-motor C40 has been announced for Europe but not the United States). It’s also worth noting that the base Tesla Model Y Long Range is rated at 318 miles, and the Ford Mustang Mach-E, Hyundai Ioniq 5, and Kia EV6 will all top 300 miles in certain configurations.
The C40 Recharge can, err, recharge at 11 kilowatts when plugged into a 240-volt Level 2 AC charging station, allowing for a full charge in eight hours, according to Volvo. The C40’s 150-kW peak rate for DC fast charging is competitive with other EVs, but the quoted 40 minutes for a zero to 80% charge is less impressive.
The Insurance Institute for Highway Safety (IIHS) gave the C40 Recharge its highest “ Top Safety Pick+ ” award, but the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) hasn’t rated the electric Volvo yet.
Volvo offers a four-year, 50,000-mile basic warranty, a four-year, 50,000-mile powertrain warranty, and an eight-year, 100,000-mile battery warranty. That’s comparable to what most other EVs offer, although Tesla has an eight-year, 120,000-mile battery warranty for some models.
How DT would configure this car Volvo makes buying a C40 Recharge simple. It comes in one all-inclusive trim level, so the only thing customers have to choose is the color. We were quite smitten by our test car’s Fjord Blue, but Volvo also offers Black Stone, Fusion Red, Thunder Gray, Silver Dawn, Crystal White, and Sage Green.
Our take The C40 Recharge is a nice car, but it needs to be more than that to truly make an impact. It may be Volvo’s first mass-produced car without a gasoline engine, but it’s still based on an existing model — the XC40 Recharge.
The XC40 Recharge offers more interior space, similar range and performance capabilities, and a design that’s also distinctive. The C40 Recharge does get sustainably sourced interior materials and more standard equipment, including the Harman Kardon audio system, wireless phone charging, and a heat pump (important for cold climates), but it’s also more expensive. We’d be tempted to simply add those options to an XC40 Recharge. And don’t forget the related Polestar 2 , which offers a sportier driving experience.
Both Volvo EVs also face stiff competition. The Ford Mustang Mach-E , Hyundai Ioniq 5 , and Kia EV6 are all 300-mile EVs with impressive tech and driving dynamics. While the Volvo brand may have more inherent prestige, these EVs don’t exactly feel low-rent, either. Strip the badges off, and we doubt most people could tell which ones were from a premium brand and which ones weren’t.
Volvo’s traditional rivals are also launching their own small electric SUVs. The Mercedes-Benz EQB-Class, Genesis GV60, and Audi Q4 E-Tron (which gets its own C40-like Sportback variant) should give Volvo a run for its money. Despite a range deficiency, the C40 Recharge does at least look like a decent value compared to the Tesla Model Y , as recent price increases have pushed the Tesla’s base price to over $60,000.
Since the XC40 Recharge debuted in late 2020, the EV market has expanded and grown more competitive. Volvo’s next step needed to be bigger than a restyled version of the XC40, but that’s what we got. We eagerly await Volvo’s next-generation EVs, but for now the C40 Recharge doesn’t stand out.
Should you get one? No. Unless you’re really smitten with its styling, there isn’t much to recommend the C40 Recharge over its XC40 Recharge sibling.
Editors' Recommendations Watch your back, Tesla. Volvo’s EX30 just raised the bar on EV value These new NASA EVs will drive astronauts part way to the moon (sort of) 2024 Mercedes-AMG S63 E Performance first drive review: high-performance plug-in Hyundai Ioniq 6 first drive review: welcome to the future Kia EV6 GT first-drive review: putting a little more fun into EVs Volvo Cars If you want to see just how quickly the electric car landscape has changed over the past few years, take a look at the redesigned 2023 Kia Niro EV.
When the first-generation Niro EV launched for the 2019 model year (following hybrid and plug-in hybrid Niro variants), it was a pretty big deal. The Niro was Kia’s first EV not based on a conventional gasoline model, and the first intended for high sales volumes.
The second-generation 2023 Niro EV boasts more tech, more space, and more extroverted styling than its predecessor, but it’s still very much in the shadow of the Kia EV6. Once Kia’s main EV attraction, the Niro is being refocused as a more affordable option to take on the likes of the Chevrolet Bolt EV/Bolt EUV, Volkswagen ID.4, and Nissan Leaf.
Kia plans to offer the Niro EV in trim levels named Wind and Wave, but hasn’t released pricing for either. Note that the previous-generation 2022 Niro EV started at $41,245; the new model could see a price increase because of its updates. And because it’s assembled in South Korea, the 2023 Niro EV won’t qualify for the revamped federal EV tax credit, Kia has confirmed.
Design and interior Like the previous generation, the Niro is part of a three-pronged lineup that also includes the Niro Hybrid and Niro PHEV (plug-in hybrid models). All three maintain the tall-wagon shape of the first-generation Niro, but with much bolder styling.
Where the previous Niro was a wishy-washy mix of car and SUV styling elements, the 2023 Niro is the result of the same fearless design department that produced the EV6 and the 2023 Kia Sportage. The traditional automotive “face” was rearranged with a visor-like element, protruding grille, and hexagonal lighting elements. Contrasting trim panels break up the profile view, and conceal “Air Blade” elements around the taillights that, Kia claims, reduce aerodynamic drag.
Kia used sustainable materials to further decrease the Niro EV’s environmental impact.
Cars Volkswagen's growing family of ID-badged electric cars has a new mascot: the ID. Buzz. Inspired by the vintage air-cooled Bus models and previewed by a close-to-production concept unveiled in 2017, the heritage-laced van offers an electric powertrain, an eye-catching design, plus an interior that's high-tech and almost lounge-like. I tested a Buzz prototype in England in February 2022 and walked away impressed, and time driving a regular-production model in and around Copenhagen, Denmark, confirmed these impressions. This was worth the wait.
Design and interior While you can tell that the Buzz is on the same branch of the Volkswagen family tree as the split- and bay-window Buses prized by hippies decades ago, designers decided not to go full-retro as they did with the New Beetle released in 1997. The headlights aren't round, for example, and they're much higher than the original van's. It's the same story out back: The lights are horizontal, located right below the big hatch's window, and connected by a light bar. This is intentional -- Volkswagen aimed to echo the original model without cloning it.
In terms of proportions, the Buzz is pretty spot on. The front end isn't entirely flat and the front doors are positioned behind the front wheels rather than over them, but the design is as close to the old van's as modern regulations allow. The Buzz variant that I drove in Denmark measures 185.5 inches long, 78.1 inches wide, and 76.8 inches tall, so it's about as long as a Tiguan but around 10 inches taller and five inches wider. This is what Volkswagen refers to as the short-wheelbase model, and it's not coming to the United States. We'll get a long-wheelbase model that hasn't been unveiled yet; it should look just like the European-spec model but with more space between the front and rear axles.
Cars Mercedes-Benz aims to go all-electric in at least some markets by 2030 but to do that it will need to launch electric equivalents of each of its many gasoline-powered models. The 2023 Mercedes-Benz EQB fits that description to the letter.
Where the EQS sedan aims to fill a similar role to the S-Class without directly copying it, the EQB is literally an electric version of an existing Mercedes crossover SUV — the GLB-Class. It uses the same body shell as the GLB, even retaining that model’s optional third-row seats.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
