Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Cars Reviews Cadillac Lyriq first drive review: Electric manifesto By Stephen Edelstein Close The 2023 Cadillac Lyriq feels like it’s taken forever to arrive, and not just because Cadillac first showed it almost two years ago. This electric SUV is also a big step toward fulfilling General Motors’ EV potential.
Design and interior Tech, infotainment, and driver assist Driving experience Range, charging, and safety How DT would configure this car Our take Should you get one? GM showed that it could be a leader in electrification with the Chevrolet Bolt EV , but never seemed confident enough in the little electric hatchback to aggressively promote it. The GMC Hummer EV debuted GM’s next-generation Ultium tech, but in the form of a four-wheeled vanity project targeting a small market niche.
Stephen Edelstein/Digital Trends The Lyriq (pronounced “lyric”) is still a luxury model, but it’s arguably the first GM EV that will really go head-to-head with internal-combustion vehicles. SUVs are now the bread-and-butter of Cadillac and other luxury brands, to the extent that the Lyriq already has a few all-electric competitors. Cadillac will not only have to convince would-be buyers of gasoline SUVs, but also shoppers eyeing the Audi E-Tron, BMW iX, Jaguar I-Pace, and Tesla Model X. It’s already done a pretty good job, as the entire 2023 model year production run has already sold out.
The Lucid Gravity has more range than any other electric SUV The fastest electric cars, ranked by 0-60 mph acceleration Acura’s resurrected ZDX SUV is an EV shortcut While some buyers may just want to be the first on their block with something new, Cadillac’s first all-electric model also looks strong at first glance. Base prices of $62,990 for single-motor rear-wheel drive versions and $64,990 for dual-motor all-wheel drive models are competitive. Cadillac also brings serious tech to the fight, including the aforementioned Ultium battery system and a 33-inch infotainment display. When it comes to selling EVs, GM is finally taking the gloves off.
Design and interior Cadillac has been making bold design statements for 20 years. From the angular first-generation CTS sedan to the brash current-generation Escalade, attention-grabbing styling is practically expected from GM’s luxury brand. But even compared to previous efforts, the Lyriq stands out.
The Lyriq looks like a concept car, not something you can actually buy. It’s a complete rethink of what Cadillacs — and SUVs in general — can look like. With no need for a traditional grille, designers rearranged the front fascia around an illuminated panel, flanked by pentagonal trim pieces and vertical lighting elements, while the rear gets an unusual basket-handle treatment. While still high-riding, the Lyriq also has a much sleeker profile than traditional SUVs, without looking like an amorphous blob. All of these design elements work together as a cohesive whole, and aren’t just different for the sake of being different.
The Lyriq looks like a concept car, not something you can actually buy.
That fashion-forward exterior doesn’t destroy interior packaging, either. Headroom isn’t very generous, but the Lyriq offers substantially more legroom than the Audi E-Tron, BMW iX, and Jaguar I-Pace (Tesla doesn’t publish complete interior measurements for its vehicles). The Cadillac’s 28.0 cubic feet of cargo space with the rear seats in place and 60.8 cubic feet with the second row folded are respectable as well, but less than you get in the BMW iX.
The interior is both stylish and practical. Unlike other Cadillac SUVs, the Lyriq doesn’t share materials or parts with lesser General Motors models. Cadillac also included cool details like pixelated cutouts in the wood trim, with exposed metal beneath. The obligatory leather upholstery is included, as is a massive glass roof that covers both rows (with a retractable shade for hot days). A floating center console houses cupholders and an infotainment control knob, leaving plenty of useful storage space below. The only issue we had was with the bright metal dashboard trim, which tended to generate glare in direct sunlight.
Tech, infotainment, and driver assist At first glance, the Lyriq’s 33-inch dashboard display looks similar to the 38-inch display in the Cadillac Escalade.
 But in addition to being smaller, the Lyriq’s version is just standard LED rather than OLED, and is actually one continuous screen rather than three smaller screens nested together.
The layout is pretty much the same as the Escalade’s, though. The screen is divided into thirds, including a central touchscreen, an instrument cluster for the driver, and a smaller section on the extreme left that controls the headlights, display settings for the instrument cluster, and a handful of other functions.
While we had a hard time getting used to tapping a screen to turn on the headlights, we generally liked this interface. The curved display keeps everything close to the driver’s line of sight while also keeping the touchscreen within easy view of the front passenger. The graphics were very sharp despite the non-OLED displays, but lacked the more imaginative designs of the BMW iX.
The curved display keeps everything close to the driver’s line of sight.
The infotainment system also includes wireless Apple CarPlay and Android Auto connectivity, along with Google Built-In functions, including Google Assistant, Google Maps, and Google Play. A 19-speaker AKG audio system is available as well, with headrest speakers and adaptive volume.
The Lyriq will also get GM’s Super Cruise hands-free driver-assist system, but not at launch. Cars will ship with all of the hardware for Super Cruise, which controls acceleration, braking, and steering on premapped sections of highway, but the software will be pushed later via an over-the-air update.
The delay is due to the fact that GM plans to offer an upgraded version of Super Cruise with more features on the Lyriq. The system and the vehicle were supposed to be ready at the same time, but GM pulled the launch of the Lyriq forward, leaving insufficient time to finish the new version of Super Cruise, Keith Badgley, lead development engineer for the Lyriq, explained to Digital Trends. In the meantime, cars still have more basic driver aids like adaptive cruise control and lane-keep assist.
Driving experience The single-motor rear-wheel drive launch version produces 340 horsepower and 325 pound-feet of torque. Cadillac expects the dual-motor all-wheel drive version to have at least 500 hp, along with a 3,500-pound towing capacity, but specifications haven’t been finalized. Both versions have a 100-kilowatt-hour battery pack.
The Lyriq drives like a remastered version of a classic Cadillac.
Instant torque makes every EV feel abnormally quick, and that’s still the case here. The Lyriq didn’t set new standards for accelerative force, but still felt like it had more than enough power. The upcoming 500-hp all-wheel drive version will likely be entertaining but, at least when it comes power, it won’t be necessary.
The Lyriq isn’t a performance SUV, anyway. It drives like a remastered version of a classic Cadillac, keeping the good aspects of the driving experience while addressing the bad. Riding on five-link front and rear suspension, the Lyriq was admirably smooth, but without the waterbed-like bouncing once associated with Cadillacs. And while handling was not the top engineering priority, we were impressed by the steering’s precision and lack of body roll, which made cornering serene and drama-free.
Cadillac also took a smart approach to regenerative braking, which allows EVs and hybrids to decelerate without using the friction brakes while recovering energy. Lyriq drivers can choose from low or high settings, or turn regeneration off completely. Additionally, a steering-wheel paddle provides regeneration on demand, a sensation that’s similar to the engine braking in internal-combustion cars. Overall, drivers get more control, which we prefer to, for example, the more opaque adaptive regeneration system used by BMW in the iX.
Range, charging, and safety Cadillac estimates 312 miles of range for the single-motor rear-wheel drive Lyriq. Range estimates for the dual-motor all-wheel drive version will be published closer to its launch.
Cadillac offers a few charging options, but only quotes miles of range added rather than full recharge times. A standard dual-level charge cord allows owners to plug into a 240-volt outlet without a dedicated charging station. This charges at a relatively low 7.7 kilowatts, adding 21 miles of range per hour for rear-wheel drive models, and 19 miles of range per hour for all-wheel drive models.
With a dedicated 11.5-kW Level 2 AC charging station, the Lyriq can add a claimed 37 miles of range per hour with either powertrain. The maximum power rate for DC fast charging is 190 kW, recovering 76 miles of range in 10 minutes of charging. That puts the Lyriq in a bit of a no man’s land, however, as most public stations are either 150 kW or 350 kW. Lyriq drivers won’t be able to take advantage of the most powerful stations, but might still find some that won’t let the car charge at its maximum rate.
The Lyriq gets a four-year, 50,000-mile, bumper-to-bumper limited warranty and an eight-year, 100,000-mile warranty covering the battery pack and powertrain components. Those are pretty typical warranty terms for an EV in the current market.
Crash-test ratings from the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety (IIHS) and National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) weren’t available at the time of publication. That’s often the case with new models.
How DT would configure this car For now, Cadillac is only offering a choice of single-motor rear-wheel drive and dual-motor all-wheel drive models. Expect a full array of trim levels and option packages further into the Lyriq’s production run.
While we didn’t get to sample the all-wheel drive version, the rear-wheel drive model didn’t leave us wanting. It had more than enough power, and the 312-mile range is reasonable for this kind of vehicle. The all-wheel drive version will have more power and better traction for inclement weather, but it’s also more expensive, and there’s no guarantee that it will offer more range.
However, the main issue isn’t choosing a configuration == it’s getting a Lyriq at all. With the 2023 model year run sold out, GM is currently taking pre-orders for 2024 models. But it doesn’t plan to start deliveries of 2023 Lyriqs until roughly a year from now, at the earliest. That’s a shame, because the Lyriq is definitely something luxury EV shoppers should consider.
Our take The Lyriq shows how an EV can transform an existing car brand. It’s light-years ahead of the Cadillac XT6 and the automaker’s other crossover SUVs, while offering a more sophisticated take on luxury than the brutish Escalade.
The Lyriq is also a strong rival to other electric luxury SUVs. The Tesla Model X may offer more range and quicker acceleration, but it’s also much more expensive and looks somewhat dated compared to the Cadillac.
Where the Audi E-Tron aims to replicate the experience of a gasoline SUV, and the BMW iX tries to be as weird as possible, the Lyriq achieves a satisfying middle ground. It’s different, but not gimmicky. And unlike the Jaguar I-Pace, the Cadillac offers genuine SUV utility. The one thing these competitors have that the Lyriq doesn’t is standard all-wheel drive. That feature is why many shoppers choose SUVs in the first place.
More potential rivals are also on the way. The Rivian R1S is scheduled to start deliveries later this year, boasting real off-road capability and third-row seating. Further out is the Mercedes-Benz EQE SUV. It hasn’t been shown yet, but expect the dazzling Hyperscreen display from the EQS sedan , among other tech features. For now, though, Cadillac has delivered an impressive first EV.
Should you get one? Yes. The Lyriq shows what General Motors can do when it tries.
Editors' Recommendations Cadillac aims to balance its lineup with a small electric SUV Cruise woes prompt production halt of fully driverless van Lanzador concept previews Lamborghini’s first EV Lamborghini teases its first all-electric supercar ahead of Friday’s big reveal Everything is bigger in Cadillac’s electric Escalade IQ Cars With EV production ramping up, automakers can now shift attention to something more fun: making EVs that are engaging to drive, the kind that encourage you to take the long way home. Mercedes-Benz is putting its best people on the job.
For more than 50 years, AMG has been turning Mercedes luxury cars into race cars and hot rods—and the performance division is now working its magic on EVs. We’ve already gotten AMG versions of the Mercedes-Benz EQS and EQE sedans, but AMG is now upping the difficulty level with an electric SUV.
Cars It's a time of transition at Mercedes-Benz. The venerable automaker is looking toward an electric future with EVs like the EQS, while introducing updated versions of its traditional internal-combustion models like the S-Class. The 2024 Mercedes-AMG S63 E Performance bridges the gap.
For those not fluent in Mercedes-speak, AMG is the automaker's performance version, and the S63 is a hot-rodded version of the S-Class. This 2024 model is the latest in a long line of big, powerful Mercedes sedans that combine limousine-like luxury with sports-car thrust. But this time, there's a twist.
Cars Kicking your gasoline addiction is easier than ever in 2023, because electric cars are becoming increasingly common. They're not cheap, dinky golf carts, either. Whether you're looking for a high-performance sedan, a luxury car, or a humble crossover, there's a good chance you can find an electric car that suits your lifestyle. The Tesla Model 3 is the best electric car available because its technology is outstanding, it's stylish, and it's somewhat affordable, but there are other great options.
At a glance Product Category Rating Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
