Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Cars Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? 2023 Genesis Electrified G80 Review: old-money luxury gets an electric edge By Stephen Edelstein Close $81,495.00 Old money style Excellent chassis High-power charging Surprisingly efficient Awkward touchscreen Unimpressive driver-assist tech Luxury automakers are quickly embracing electric cars , but Genesis is making the shift at whiplash pace. Hyundai’s luxury brand has only existed since 2015, but it’s now rolling out two EVs that represent very different approaches to electrification. The GV60 is a small crossover SUV designed from the ground up as an EV, while the 2023 Genesis Electrified G80 is based on an existing gasoline car.
Design and interior Tech, infotainment, and driver assist Driving experience Range, charging, and safety How DT would configure this car It’s the latter that we’re concerned with here. While “electrified” is often used in the auto industry to denote hybrids, the Electrified G80 is an all-electric version of the Genesis G80 luxury sedan with no tailpipe to speak of, It replaces the standard G80’s four-cylinder and six-cylinder engines with a pair of electric motors.
Mercedes-Benz’s brawny G-Wagen will get an electric makeover New for 2023, the Electrified G80 starts at $80,920 with destination. With so few electric sedans on the market, the Genesis occupies a space between the cheaper Tesla Model 3 and BMW i4 and the more expensive Tesla Model S, Lucid Air , and Mercedes-Benz EQS , with more focus on luxury and comfort than the sporty Audi e-tron GT and Porsche Taycan. And unlike most other EVs, the Electrified G80 gets nearly every feature as standard equipment. The only option on our test car was $575 Capri Blue paint, bringing the as-tested price to $81,495.
Design and interior The Electrified G80 is the automotive equivalent of strutting about wearing a top hat and monocle. While not wholly anachronistic, it doubles down on old-money styling cues, such as the chrome fender vents and leering disco ball grille. Combine that with Genesis’ signature quad LED headlight and taillight strips, plus a sleek fastback roofline, and you get a very distinctive design — distinctive from other brands, at least. Aside from the shiny grille and lack of exhaust tips, the Electrified G80 is virtually indistinguishable from the gasoline G80.
The luxury aesthetic continues on the inside. The Electrified G80 has standard Nappa leather upholstery, with heating and ventilation for the front seats. Rear-seat passengers get a fold-down armrest with cupholders. Genesis is also bolder with color and material choices than other luxury brands. Our test car’s white upholstery was paired with blue trim instead of the usual black or gray, along with matte wood trim. Granted, the latter looked a bit like the countertops at a Long Island diner.
The G80 is the automotive equivalent of strutting about wearing a top hat and monocle.
The Electrified G80 felt pretty spacious, but on paper it gives up some room compared to its gasoline sibling. It has less headroom in both rows, and while front-seat legroom is about the same as the gasoline version, the EV has significantly less rear-seat legroom. The BMW i4 comes fairly close to the Genesis on passenger space, although its seats are nowhere near as comfortable.
At 10.8 cubic feet, cargo space is also about three cubic feet less than the gasoline G80. While there is a small passthrough between the rear seats, they don’t fold down completely. The trunk floor also has a hump, so the space that’s available is not completely flat. The BMW i4 once again offers a comparable amount of space, but it’s also a hatchback, which makes loading and unloading items a bit easier. Neither car has the “frunk” popularized by Tesla.
Tech, infotainment, and driver assist The standard infotainment system includes a 14.5-inch touchscreen, 12.3-inch digital instrument cluster, a head-up display, and four USB ports (two front, two rear). A 21-speaker Lexicon audio system and wireless device charging are standard as well.
Apple CarPlay and Android Auto are also standard, but wireless versions aren’t available.
We liked the digital instrument cluster, which has a 3D effect like a 1990s baseball card that makes the virtual speedometer needle appear to stand out from the background. But the touchscreen was awkward to use because of its positioning. It’s set far back on the dashboard behind a hump that you have to reach over. Genesis’ voice control is also less sophisticated than that of German luxury brands like BMW and Mercedes. You do get a rotary controller with its own small trackpad, at least.
Like other Genesis models ( and those of parent Hyundai ), the Electrified G80 also gets Digital Key, which turns a smartphone into the key fob. Instead of carrying a separate fob, drivers can use a compatible phone (this feature is Android-only for now) to unlock or lock the car, start it up, and drive.
The touchscreen was awkward to use because of its positioning.
Another carryover feature from other Genesis and Hyundai models is Remote Smart Parking Assist. While other automakers offer parking-assist systems that can steer a car into spaces, you don’t have to be in the car to use this one. And the Electrified G80 gets the now-familiar Hyundai/Genesis/Kia Blind-Spot View Monitor camera system, which shows a camera view in the instrument cluster. While no longer novel, it’s still very helpful when merging or overtaking.
Blind-Spot View Monitor is also standard, along with a host of other driver aids including forward-collision warning, rear cross-traffic alert, a driver-attention monitor, adaptive cruise control, lane keep assist, safe exit assist, and a rear occupant alert feature that reminds you to check the back seats before leaving the car.
Also standard is Highway Driving Assist, which levels up the adaptive cruise control by adding automated lane centering. Tech like this is already common in cars of all price ranges, and Genesis’ version doesn’t exactly distinguish itself. While we appreciated the straightforward controls and the ability to automatically match posted speed limits, acceleration was frustratingly slow, and steering movements awkward. Instead of following curves, the system always seemed like it was trying to cut them, only pulling the car back in line when it approached the limits of a lane. And you’ll definitely get your hand-strength exercises in while gripping the steering wheel, which is the only way the car knows you’re still paying attention.
Driving experience The all-wheel drive Electrified G80 has one electric motor powering each axle, fed by an 87.2-kilowatt-hour battery pack. Combined output from the two motors is 365 horsepower and 516 pound-feet of torque. The electric model can’t match the 375 hp of the most powerful gasoline G80 , but outdoes that model’s 391 lb.-ft. of torque. That extra torque was definitely noticeable when accelerating away from stoplights; it was easy to chirp the tires despite the Electrified G80’s all-wheel drive.
The Electrified G80 has the character of a classic luxury car, combining speed and comfort while keeping the drama to a minimum. Standard adaptive dampers provide the pillowy ride expected in the luxury category, along with excellent body control that means passengers won’t be disturbed by jarring sideways motion in corners. Genesis’ choice of 19-inch wheels likely helps as well. The wheels are large enough to appear properly scaled with the rest of the car, but still leave room for thick tire sidewalls, which provide an additional cushioning effect.
The Electrified G80 has the character of a classic luxury car.
While not a performance car per se, the Electrified G80 was also surprisingly game for twisty roads. The same suspension elements that coddle the driver and passengers with a smooth ride helped the G80 glide through corners with the agility of a smaller car. The steering was nicely weighted — especially in Sport mode, which also quickens accelerator response — and the rear end provided just the right amount rotation to help expedite cornering. Like a real performance car, the G80 communicated the sensation of the road, but in a more subtle way that preserved the luxury atmosphere.
The Electrified G80 is a great car to drive, but it also works well as an EV. It has strong enough regenerative braking to enable one-pedal driving, and can even (gradually) slow to a stop without any application of the brake pedal. And while converting a gasoline car to electric power can often uncover unpleasant sounds normally masked by the engine, the Electrified G80’s cabin was as quiet as an abandoned shopping mall.
Range, charging, and safety Official range and efficiency ratings haven’t been published yet, but Genesis estimates a respectable 282 miles of range. A standard heat pump and battery heater should help maintain maximum range even in cold weather. We also saw average energy use of between 3.7 kilowatt and 3.9 kW per mile during a week of driving — greater efficiency than we expected.
One of the most impressive aspects of the Electrified G80 is its 800-volt electrical architecture, which enables DC fast charging at up to 350 kW, and can charge the battery pack from 10% to 80% capacity in 22 minutes, according to Genesis. That’s some of the quickest charging currently available, although actually finding a 350-kW fast-charging station can still be challenging. Genesis is also including three years of free 30-minute charging sessions at Electrify America locations.
Connect to a 240-volt Level 2 AC charging station — the kind normally installed as home chargers — and the Electrified G80 can charge at up to 10.9 kW, taking the battery pack to 10% to 100% in seven hours and 22 minutes, Genesis claims. The Electrified G80 also has vehicle-to-load (V2L) capability that can discharge power at 3.6 kW to run devices or appliances.
The Insurance Institute for Highway Safety (IIHS) and National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) haven’t published crash-test ratings for the Electrified G80, although both organizations did give the gasoline G80 high marks. While that’s encouraging, those ratings may not translate to the Electrified version as the addition of the battery pack and subtraction of the engine may change the way it performs in a crash.
The Electrified G80 does get the same warranty coverage as other Genesis models, including a five year, 60,000-mile new-vehicle warranty and a 10-year, 100,000-mile powertrain warranty. Genesis also provides a separate 10-year, 100,000-mile warranty for the battery pack and other EV components.
How DT would configure this car There isn’t much configuration to be done, as the Electrified G80 is only sold in one all-inclusive trim level encompassing everything from Nappa leather and premium audio to a dual-motor all-wheel drive powertrain and a full suite of driver aids. That doesn’t make the Electrified G80 a great value, though, as this is simply the level of feature content one should expect in a roughly $80,000 car.
The price point does position the Genesis well against other EVs, undercutting the Audi e-tron GT, Lucid Air , Mercedes EQS sedan, Tesla Model S, and Porsche Taycan. With its 800-volt electrical architecture, respectable estimated range, and one-pedal driving capability, the Electrified G80 is also a good EV that nicely replicates the experience of traditional luxury cars.
It may be harder to find an Electrified G80 than other EVs, however, as it’s only available in eight states: Arizona, California, Connecticut, Nevada, New Jersey, New York, Utah, and Washington. Its base price and the fact that it’s assembled in Ulsan, South Korea, also disqualifies the Electrified G80 from eligibility for the federal EV tax credit under the latest rules.
More competition is also on the way. The Lucid Air Pure is scheduled to arrive in the fourth quarter of 2022 with an $87,400 base price (before destination), but 406 miles of range. The Mercedes EQE sedan should also reach dealerships soon at a significant discount from the EQS. So while the Electrified G80 is an impressive first effort, when it comes to EVs, change is constant.
Editors' Recommendations Mercedes-Maybach EQS SUV is old-school luxury — electrified Car Reviews Product Reviews Cars Lucid Motors has become the latest automaker to announce that it will adopt the North American Charging Standard (NACS) – also known as "the Tesla plug" – for its electric vehicles.
The move follows in the footsteps of more than a dozen other automakers that have also adopted Tesla’s charging connector, among them General Motors, Ford, Toyota, BMW, Jaguar Land Rover, Volvo, and Honda.
Cars General Motors-owned Cruise has halted production of its fully driverless vehicle -- the Origin -- just over a week after it suspended robotaxi operations nationwide following a number of troubling incidents involving its cars.
The news was announced by Cruise CEO Kyle Vogt during a meeting with staff on Monday, according to Forbes, which obtained audio of the gathering.
Cars The Ram brand is finally taking an electrified approach, and by resurrecting the Ramcharger name, no less. Alongside the new 2025 Ram 1500, the company has unveiled the new 2025 Ram 1500 Ramcharger, a new plug-in hybrid that Ram touts as offering "unlimited battery electric range." The new truck is one of a number of electrified trucks, the most well-known of which include the fully-electric Ford F-150 Lightning and the new Chevrolet Silverado EV. But instead of being fully electric, the 1500 Ramcharger is a plug-in hybrid, meaning that it has an electric motor and battery, and a gas tank and engine.
The plug-in approach It's perhaps a smart move. Electric trucks show a lot of promise -- but they start to falter a little when it comes to things like towing and hauling heavy loads. Keeping the 1500 Ramcharger a hybrid means that with no load or light ones, the truck can zip around town on electric power -- and when necessary, it can switch the engine on to tow or haul. It could well be the perfect combo for many truck owners who at least occasionally need that extra oomph, but who still could stand to save some cash -- and go a little easier on the environment - when simply driving around town.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
