Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Cars Reviews 2023 Kia Niro EV first drive review: Practical doesn’t have to bore you to tears By Stephen Edelstein Close If you want to see just how quickly the electric car landscape has changed over the past few years, take a look at the redesigned 2023 Kia Niro EV.
Design and interior Tech, infotainment, and driver-assist Driving experience Range, charging, and safety How DT would configure this car When the first-generation Niro EV launched for the 2019 model year (following hybrid and plug-in hybrid Niro variants), it was a pretty big deal. The Niro was Kia’s first EV not based on a conventional gasoline model, and the first intended for high sales volumes.
The second-generation 2023 Niro EV boasts more tech, more space, and more extroverted styling than its predecessor, but it’s still very much in the shadow of the Kia EV6.
 Once Kia’s main EV attraction, the Niro is being refocused as a more affordable option to take on the likes of the Chevrolet Bolt EV /Bolt EUV, Volkswagen ID.4 , and Nissan Leaf.
Mercedes-Benz EQE SUV first drive review: ’90s look, cutting-edge tech Kia EV6 GT first-drive review: putting a little more fun into EVs 2022 Mercedes-Benz EQB first drive review: An EV better than its gas sibling Kia plans to offer the Niro EV in trim levels named Wind and Wave, but hasn’t released pricing for either. Note that the previous-generation 2022 Niro EV started at $41,245; the new model could see a price increase because of its updates. And because it’s assembled in South Korea, the 2023 Niro EV won’t qualify for the revamped federal EV tax credit, Kia has confirmed.
Design and interior Like the previous generation, the Niro is part of a three-pronged lineup that also includes the Niro Hybrid and Niro PHEV (plug-in hybrid models). All three maintain the tall-wagon shape of the first-generation Niro, but with much bolder styling.
Where the previous Niro was a wishy-washy mix of car and SUV styling elements, the 2023 Niro is the result of the same fearless design department that produced the EV6 and the 2023 Kia Sportage.
 The traditional automotive “face” was rearranged with a visor-like element, protruding grille, and hexagonal lighting elements. Contrasting trim panels break up the profile view, and conceal “Air Blade” elements around the taillights that, Kia claims, reduce aerodynamic drag.
Kia used sustainable materials to further decrease the Niro EV’s environmental impact.
Kia also got creative with the interior design, opting for lots of curved surfaces that blend together to create a nice visual flow between the dashboard and door panels. The dashboard screens are also well integrated, so it doesn’t look like designers simply nailed some iPads to the dash, as in some other cars. Kia also claims the interior is 100% vegan, and uses sustainable materials like recycled wallpaper (in the headliner) and eucalyptus leaves (in the seats) to further decrease the Niro EV’s environmental impact.
The redesigned Niro EV is 2.5 inches longer than the previous-generation model, and its wheelbase grew 0.8 inches to 107.1 inches total. That translates to a fairly compact vehicle with generous interior space for its size. The Kia has more headroom and legroom in both rows than a Chevy Bolt EUV or Nissan Leaf, albeit less than the VW ID.4. Similarly, the Niro EV’s 22.8 cubic feet of cargo space with the rear seats up and 63.7 cubic feet with the back seats folded beat the Chevy and Nissan, but are behind the VW.
Tech, infotainment, and driver-assist The standard infotainment system includes a 10.25-inch touchscreen and 10.25-inch digital instrument cluster in the same housing to create the appearance of one continuous screen. Wired Apple CarPlay and Android Auto are also standard (Kia doesn’t offer wireless versions with this touchscreen), along with wireless phone charging. The complement of USB ports includes one USB-C and two USB-A ports for the front seats, and a pair of seatback-mounted USB-A ports for rear-seat passengers.
The lack of wireless Apple CarPlay and Android Auto is inconvenient, but the front USB ports and phone tray are at least well-placed for plugging in. The infotainment system itself was also easy to use, with a quick-responding touchscreen and sensible menu layouts.
Safety features include forward collision warning (with pedestrian detection), automatic emergency braking, lane keep assist, a driver attention monitor, rear cross traffic alert, safe exit warning, and rear occupant alert standard equipment, as well as blind spot collision avoidance for pulling out of parallel parking spaces.
The infotainment system was easy to use, with a responsive touchscreen and sensible layout.
Adaptive cruise control is standard as well, with stop-and-go functionality and navigation-based curve prediction, which standard systems from the likes of Honda and Toyota don’t have. Kia’s Highway Driving Assist II system, which adds automated lane centering for highway driving, is also available and boasts a machine-learning function that adapts the system’s responses to your driving style, Kia claims.
With its ability to control acceleration, braking, and steering while still requiring drivers to keep their hands on the wheel, Highway Driving Assist II roughly matches the capability of the ProPilot Assist system available on the Nissan Leaf and the VW ID.4’s available Travel Assist system. But the Chevy Bolt EUV can be equipped with Super Cruise , which allows for hands-free driving on designated stretches of highway (that system isn’t available on the Bolt EV, however).
The Niro EV is also available with the Digital Key system previously seen on other Kia models and those of related brands Hyundai and Genesis.
 Digital Key lets drivers use a smartphone or other device in place of the key fob, although, in the Niro EV, it only works with iPhones, the Apple Watch, and Samsung Galaxy phones for now.
Driving experience The Niro EV has more power than other Niro variants. Its single electric motor sends 201 horsepower and 188 pound-feet of torque to the front wheels, compared to 139 hp and 195 lb.-ft. of torque for the Niro Hybrid and 180 hp and 195 lb.-ft. for the Niro PHEV (those versions are front-wheel drive as well). A 64.8-kilowatt-hour battery pack provides the juice.
Kia says the Niro EV will do zero to 62 mph in 7.8 seconds — quicker than the hybrid and plug-in hybrid models, but not exactly noteworthy. Unlike the EV6 , the Niro EV doesn’t make any pretenses of sportiness. And it felt plenty quick for an ordinary car in real-world traffic, anyway.
The Niro EV doesn’t make any pretensions of sportiness.
The Niro EV’s chassis felt ordinary as well. The Kia didn’t go beyond its station in ride quality, and it wasn’t much fun on twisty roads, but it didn’t have any real issues either. We think it would make a perfectly satisfying daily driver — but don’t expect anything more than that.
Like other electric cars, the Niro EV uses regenerative braking to harvest energy under deceleration. Kia provides multiple levels of regeneration, which can be adjusted with steering wheel paddles, along with an automatic mode called i-Pedal. This is supposed to choose the most efficient setting and will dial back regeneration at times when coasting is deemed better. While that sounds good in theory, this can also leave the driver guessing about how much regeneration they will get, and whether or not they will need to use the brake pedal to slow the car.
Range, charging, and safety Official range and efficiency ratings for the Niro EV haven’t been released yet, but Kia is aiming for 253 miles. That would put the Niro in the same ballpark as the 259-mile Chevy Bolt EV and 247-mile Bolt EUV without outshining the Niro’s Kia EV6 sibling, which surpasses 300 miles in some configurations. An optional heat pump and battery warmer should help preserve range in cold temperatures.
The Niro EV can DC fast charge, but only at 85 kilowatts. That means it takes an estimated 45 minutes to go from a 10% to an 80% charge, which isn’t great considering that many EVs can do the same in around 20 minutes. The Niro EV charges at 11 kW from a Level 2 AC source, requiring seven hours for a full recharge. That’s closer to average, at least, and the Niro EV can also power your devices thanks to built-in vehicle-to-load (V2L) capability, which draws power from the battery pack.
The Insurance Institute for Highway Safety (IIHS) and National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) haven’t released crash-test ratings for the 2023 Niro EV or its hybrid and plug-in hybrid siblings.
Like other Kias, the Niro EV gets an impressive 10-year, 100,000-mile powertrain warranty and five-year, 60,000-mile limited warranty.
How DT would configure this car There isn’t too much difference between the Niro EV Wind and Wave trim levels, but the high-end Wave model does have Remote Smart Parking Assist and the inverter that allows for V2L power output, as well as some added convenience features like a power front passenger’s seat, ventilated front seats (heated front seats are standard on both models), and a memory system for seat settings. Highway Driving Assist II is also available on the Wave model, but as an extra-cost option. So if you want the most tech content, that’s the one to go for.
While styling is subjective, we feel the Niro EV stands out visually, and Kia’s effort to use sustainable interior materials is noteworthy. The Niro EV also offers a decent amount of interior space for its size, and a respectable amount of range. That should make for a good companion to the EV6 in Kia’s lineup, but not a world-beater.
The EV competition has grown since the Kia Niro EV first appeared. The Chevy Bolt EUV is more fun to drive and is available with the more sophisticated Super Cruise hands-free driver-assist system, while the VW ID.4 offers up to 275 miles of range in certain configurations and is available with all-wheel drive.
 The Hyundai Kona Electric offers many of the same tech features as the Niro, with a 258-mile range, although it’s unclear how long it will stick around. While still pretty far out, the 2024 Chevy Equinox EV’s $30,000 base price and more traditional SUV packaging could undercut the Niro EV’s value argument going forward.
So while the Niro EV is an appealing electric car, it’s not the only one. That’s great for EV buyers, but perhaps not for Kia.
Editors' Recommendations Mercedes-AMG EQE SUV first drive review: a better electric SUV Hyundai Ioniq 6 first drive review: welcome to the future 2022 Volkswagen ID. Buzz first drive review: The iconic hippie hauler goes electric 2022 Rivian R1S first drive review: An EV SUV fit for an expedition or a drag race Cadillac Lyriq first drive review: Electric manifesto Cars Looking at its current lineup, it’s hard to believe Kia was once a byword for cheapness. In fact, the only nameplate remaining from those bad old days is the Kia Sportage. Since its launch in 1993, the Sportage has evolved from a curiosity to a true mainstream crossover SUV. But it was still missing something.
Cars Volvo wants to go all-electric by 2030, but so far it’s taking small steps toward that goal.
The C40 Recharge is technically Volvo’s first dedicated electric model, as there won’t be a gasoline version. But the C40 Recharge is closely related to the Volvo XC40, which is available with both gasoline and electric powertrains. It has the same basic platform and powertrain, as well as the same Android-based infotainment system. It even looks mostly the same as the XC40, with the main difference being a sleeker silhouette.
Cars The 2022 Hyundai Ioniq 5, the automaker’s newest electric car, proves that EVs are about more than a powertrain.
Hyundai has launched electric cars before, but they were derived from gasoline or hybrid models. The Ioniq 5 is a clean-sheet design, debuting Hyundai’s EV-specific Electric-Global Modular Platform (E-GMP) and taking advantage of the design freedom that entails. That makes the Ioniq 5 a stronger competitor to the Volkswagen ID.4, Ford Mustang Mach-E, and Tesla Model Y.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
