Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Cars Reviews Lux and refreshingly livable, Mercedes’ EQE moves EVs mainstream By Stephen Edelstein Close Mercedes-Benz wants its EQ sub-brand to be an all-electric counterpart to its current lineup of gasoline luxury cars, and it’s working toward that goal by starting at opposite ends of the price spectrum and working toward the middle.
Design and interior Tech, infotainment, and driver assist Driving experience Range, charging, and safety How DT would configure this car Where the EQS sedan and SUV are the flagships of the lineup, and the EQB serves as an entry-level offering, the 2023 Mercedes-Benz EQE sedan aims for the middle of the market. It’s pitched as an electric equivalent of the Mercedes E-Class, one of the automaker’s bread-and-butter models. And like the E-Class, the EQE will compete against sedans from Mercedes’ German rivals, such as the Audi e-tron GT, BMW i4, and Porsche Taycan. It will likely be cross-shopped against the Genesis Electrified G80, Lucid Air, and Tesla Model S as well.
The EQE sedan arrives at U.S. dealerships in late 2022 in four guises: base rear-wheel drive EQE 350+, all-wheel drive EQE 350 4Matic and EQE 500 4Matic, and an AMG EQE performance version. Mercedes hasn’t disclosed pricing for any of these models, but the EQE 350 4Matic we tested for this first drive will likely be a mid-tier trim level. Like its EQS sibling, the EQE will also get an SUV variant, which will launch sometime after the sedan version.
Everything is bigger in Cadillac’s electric Escalade IQ Mercedes-AMG EQE SUV first drive review: a better electric SUV Mercedes-Benz Vision One-Eleven concept looks to the past for inspiration Design and interior The EQE has the same lozenge-like shape as the EQS sedan, which is dictated by aerodynamics. The appeal of the design is up for debate, but the smooth shape reduces aerodynamic drag, which helps improve efficiency and range. Under the skin, the EQE is also based on the same EVA2 architecture as the EQS sedan.
But while the two EQ sedans look similar at first glance, the EQE is a bit smaller than its sibling. It’s 10.6 inches shorter than the EQS sedan, with a 3.5-inch shorter wheelbase. Rear-seat passengers might notice the difference, but like its gasoline E-Class counterpart, the EQE is aimed more at drivers than passengers. Its tidier proportions were also a bit more pleasing to our eyes, making the EQE look sleeker than its sibling.
The interior design is minimalist while still maintaining functionality.
Mercedes hasn’t published interior measurements, but subjectively the front seats felt quite roomy. Rear-seat legroom was decent as well, but like the EQS sedan, the EQE’s low roofline can make the back seats feel a bit cramped. The steeply-raked windshield also created a visibility problem. It seemed like the windshield pillars were always in the way when turning.
The interior follows the same design as the EQS sedan as well, which we don’t think is a problem. The design is minimalist while still maintaining functionality, with cool details like turbine-like air vents and screens, and control panels that stand proud of the dashboard and door panels. The EQE also gets the same 64-color ambient lighting as other Mercedes models, which gives the interior a Tron -like atmosphere. The only downside is lots of shiny black plastic that creates glare in sunlight.
Tech, infotainment, and driver assist The EQE gets a version of the MBUX (short for Mercedes-Benz User Experience) from other recent Mercedes models, with an OLED 12.8-inch portrait-oriented touchscreen and 12.3-inch digital instrument cluster. Wireless Apple CarPlay / Android Auto connectivity and wireless smartphone charging are standard as well.
Mercedes also offers the Hyperscreen display from the EQS as an option. This adds a front-passenger touchscreen and puts all three screens under one piece of glass for a combined 56 inches of surface. It’s the most elaborate display currently available in a production car, and it has its merits, but as we found out from our EQE 350 4Matic test car, it isn’t necessary.
Equipped with the standard two-screen infotainment system, the EQE 350 4Matic had the same sharp-looking graphics that impressed us in a Hyperscreen-equipped EQS sedan. The two-screen version also keeps the Hyperscreen’s “Zero Layer” concept, which lays out all functions as individual tiles on the central touchscreen instead of dividing them among multiple menus. That means you can, for example, see the name of a song playing on the radio while keeping the navigation system’s map in view.
Mercedes’ excellent voice recognition almost makes other controls redundant.
Speaking of navigation, the EQE can also be equipped with the same augmented-reality feature as other Mercedes models. When you pull up to a junction, the view from a front-mounted camera appears on the central touchscreen with overlaid arrows, so you know exactly where to turn.
Mercedes’ excellent voice recognition almost makes the touchscreen and other controls redundant. Its ability to comprehend normal speech and a breadth of functions that covers everything from selecting radio stations to turning on seat massagers makes it more reliable than most competitor systems. Together, the EQE’s various infotainment features don’t add anything new to the conversation, but they work so well that it doesn’t really matter.
Standard driver-assist tech includes blind-spot monitoring, lane-keep assist, forward-collision warning, and automatic emergency braking. Mercedes’ Distronic adaptive cruise control (which includes route-based speed adaptation and stop-and-go functionality) is only available as part of an optional Driver Assistance Package, however, along with active lane keeping, Pre-Safe Plus, Pre-Safe Sound, and Pre-Safe Impulse Side. The Pre-Safe features adjust settings in anticipation of a crash to minimize injuries.
Driving experience The base EQE 350+ gets a single electric motor sending 288 horsepower and 391 pound-feet of torque to the rear wheels, which will get it from 0-60 mph in 6.2 seconds, according to Mercedes. Regardless of powertrain, all EQE sedan models use the same 90.6-kilowatt-hour battery pack.
The all-wheel drive EQE 350 4Matic adds a second motor for the front axle, but horsepower remains the same. Torque increases to 564 lb-ft, however, and the 0-60 mph time drops to 6.0 seconds flats. The EQE 500 4Matic boasts 402 hp and 633 lb-ft of torque, which will get it from 0-60 mph in a claimed 4.5 seconds.
These figures are respectable but not earth-shaking. The BMW i4 M50 can do 0-60 mph in a claimed 3.7 seconds, for example. The AMG performance version of the EQE is slated to get up to 677 hp and 738 lb-ft of torque (with the optional AMG Dynamic Plus Package), dropping the 0-60 mph time to 3.2 seconds and enabling a 149-mph top speed (non-AMG models are limited to 130 mph). But even that doesn’t match the quickest versions of the Tesla Model S and Lucid Air.
The EQE felt impressively planted and stable when cornering.
While it might not be able to win a drag race against a Tesla, the acceleration of our EQE 350 4Matic test car seemed more than adequate for regular driving. And as in the EQS, Mercedes mixed some sci-fi sound effects that make pulling away from a stop light seem like you’re engaging warp drive.
The EQE can be equipped with air suspension and rear-axle steering, the latter able to turn the rear wheels 4.5 degrees or 10 degrees depending on the model and tire size. These features carry over from the larger EQS sedan, and like that car, the EQE felt impressively planted and stable when cornering. The EQE’s shorter wheelbase also made it feel nimbler and more lively than its bigger sibling, but the overall driving experience was more chill than overtly-sporty EVs like the BMW i4.
Like all EVs, the EQE uses regenerative braking to harvest energy while slowing the car. But while some manufacturers use aggressive regeneration to enable one-pedal driving, meaning the driver can largely avoid using the brake pedal, Mercedes dials things back. In our experience, even the strongest regeneration setting didn’t allow for one-pedal driving. Owners coming from Mercedes’ gasoline cars might find this reassuringly familiar, but it probably won’t win over EV fans.
Range, charging, and safety Official range ratings for the U.S. market haven’t been released yet, but based on the other EQ models a maximum range of at least 300 miles doesn’t seem out of the question. We do know that the base single-motor EQE 350+ will be the longest-range version, as that’s what the “+” signifies in Mercedes nomenclature.
The EQE can DC fast charge at up to 170 kilowatts. That’s much lower than the 350-kW maximum of the Audi e-tron GT and Porsche Taycan, not to mention the Genesis Electrified G80 , but still allows for a 10% to 80% charge in 32 minutes, according to Mercedes. Using a 240-volt Level 2 AC charger, the EQE takes 9.5 hours to go from 10% to 100% charge.
The Insurance Institute for Highway Safety (IIHS) and National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) haven’t released crash-test ratings for this new model.
The EQE gets the same four-year, 50,000-mile, new-vehicle warranty as other Mercedes models, plus a 10-year, 155,000-mile, battery warranty that’s now the automaker’s standard offering for EVs.
How DT would configure this car Mercedes will likely offer the key tech features across the EQE lineup, so if tech is the main concern, it should be possible to take a base EQE 350+ and add the Hyperscreen and Driver Assistance Package while still getting the most range. However, if you want the added traction of all-wheel drive, or quicker acceleration, it would be worth upgrading to the EQE 350 4Matic, EQE 500 4Matic, or AMG EQE models.
In the as-tested EQE 350 4Matic configuration, Mercedes’ latest electric sedan carves out a niche for itself. It leans more toward luxury than the Audi e-tron GT, BMW i4 , and Porsche Taycan, but with a more modern aesthetic than the more traditional feeling Genesis Electrified G80.
While pricing is yet to be confirmed, the EQE will likely fall within the same range as those rivals, if for no other reason than that Mercedes needs to keep it below the EQS sedan, which sits above the EQE in the automaker’s hierarchy and starts at around $100,000. That also means the EQE will undercut the Tesla Model S, which also has a six-figure base price, but the forthcoming Lucid Air Pure could give the Mercedes a run for its money if Lucid hits its targets of 406 miles of range and an $87,400 base price.
Depending on how pricing comes in below the EQS sedan , though, the similarities between the two mean the EQE could turn out to be a bargain version of that very impressive EV.
Editors' Recommendations Acura’s resurrected ZDX SUV is an EV shortcut These new NASA EVs will drive astronauts part way to the moon (sort of) 2024 Mercedes-AMG S63 E Performance first drive review: high-performance plug-in Mercedes-Maybach EQS SUV is old-school luxury — electrified Mercedes-Benz EQE SUV first drive review: ’90s look, cutting-edge tech Cars Mercedes-Benz might be known for luxury cars, but it also makes vans, and it's finally bringing an electric van to the United States.
Scheduled to start production this summer, the 2024 Mercedes-Benz eSprinter is an all-electric version of the Sprinter full-size cargo van that's already a favorite of delivery services like FedEx and Amazon, as well as camper van converters. While the automaker has been selling electric vans in Europe since 2010, the new eSprinter is the first one aimed at the U.S. market.
Cars You can't have more electric cars without more charging stations, so Mercedes-Benz is building a global charging network covering North America, China, Europe, and other major markets to support its goal of going all-electric by the end of the decade where market conditions allow.
Announced at CES 2023, the network should be in place by the end of the decade in line with Mercedes' electrification goal. It's a bold move by the automaker, which has mostly relied on third-party charging networks until now.
Cars Mercedes-Benz is continuing to expand its EV lineup, this time with a model aimed at (wealthy) families.
As the name states, the 2023 Mercedes-Benz EQS SUV is an SUV derivative of the EQS sedan. With the EQS sedan positioned as the electric analog to the Mercedes S-Class, the EQS SUV is the electric version of the GLS-Class. And like that vehicle, the EQS SUV is available with up to seven seats across three rows.
That makes the EQS SUV an important vehicle not just for Mercedes, but for the cause of EV adoption in general. While the Tesla Model X and Rivian R1S also offer three rows for family-hauling duty, there’s a lot more room in the market for another entry. Given the popularity of equivalent gasoline luxury SUVs like the GLS, Land Rover Range Rover, and Cadillac Escalade, the EQS SUV arrives not a moment too soon.
The EQS SUV is scheduled to reach U.S. dealerships this fall in three guises. The base rear-wheel-drive EQS 450+ starts at $105,550 with destination, while the all-wheel drive EQS 450 4Matic and EQS 580 4Matic start at $108,550 and $127,100, respectively. Although it will be built in Alabama, the EQS SUV won’t qualify for the revised federal EV tax credit because it exceeds the $80,000 price cap for SUVs.
Design and interior A defining feature of Mercedes’ EQ lineup is aerodynamic bodywork aimed at maximizing range. The typical SUV is not aerodynamically ideal, but Mercedes managed to achieve an impressively low drag coefficient for an SUV — at 0.26, it’s close to the Toyota Prius. But function clearly took precedence over form. Mercedes deserves credit for not going in the polarizing direction BMW did with its two-row iX SUV, but the EQS SUV looks like a melting scoop of ice cream.
More disappointing is the third row, which should be the EQS SUV’s defining feature, but seems more like a useless afterthought. Adults will find it difficult to insert themselves into the third-row seats, let alone tolerate riding in them. As in most three-row vehicles, the rear seats also pretty much eliminate cargo space. And if you want to fold them down to create more cargo room, you’ll have to do it manually as Mercedes didn’t include a power-folding system — a bit disappointing for a six-figure car. The EQS SUV also lacks a frunk; like the EQS sedan, the hood is sealed.
The EQS SUV looks like a melting scoop of ice cream.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
