Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Cars Reviews We need more 7-passenger EVs, but the 2023 Mercedes EQS SUV has room to improve By Stephen Edelstein Close Mercedes-Benz is continuing to expand its EV lineup, this time with a model aimed at (wealthy) families.
Design and interior Tech, infotainment, and driver assist Driving experience Range, charging, and safety How DT would configure this car As the name states, the 2023 Mercedes-Benz EQS SUV is an SUV derivative of the EQS sedan.
 With the EQS sedan positioned as the electric analog to the Mercedes S-Class , the EQS SUV is the electric version of the GLS-Class. And like that vehicle, the EQS SUV is available with up to seven seats across three rows.
That makes the EQS SUV an important vehicle not just for Mercedes, but for the cause of EV adoption in general. While the Tesla Model X and Rivian R1S also offer three rows for family-hauling duty, there’s a lot more room in the market for another entry. Given the popularity of equivalent gasoline luxury SUVs like the GLS, Land Rover Range Rover, and Cadillac Escalade, the EQS SUV arrives not a moment too soon.
Big EVs are almost here: 7 upcoming electric SUVs we’re excited for Mercedes-AMG EQE SUV first drive review: a better electric SUV Mercedes-Maybach EQS SUV is old-school luxury — electrified The EQS SUV is scheduled to reach U.S. dealerships this fall in three guises. The base rear-wheel-drive EQS 450+ starts at $105,550 with destination, while the all-wheel drive EQS 450 4Matic and EQS 580 4Matic start at $108,550 and $127,100, respectively. Although it will be built in Alabama, the EQS SUV won’t qualify for the revised federal EV tax credit because it exceeds the $80,000 price cap for SUVs.
Design and interior A defining feature of Mercedes’ EQ lineup is aerodynamic bodywork aimed at maximizing range. The typical SUV is not aerodynamically ideal, but Mercedes managed to achieve an impressively low drag coefficient for an SUV — at 0.26, it’s close to the Toyota Prius. But function clearly took precedence over form. Mercedes deserves credit for not going in the polarizing direction BMW did with its two-row iX SUV, but the EQS SUV looks like a melting scoop of ice cream.
More disappointing is the third row, which should be the EQS SUV’s defining feature, but seems more like a useless afterthought. Adults will find it difficult to insert themselves into the third-row seats, let alone tolerate riding in them. As in most three-row vehicles, the rear seats also pretty much eliminate cargo space. And if you want to fold them down to create more cargo room, you’ll have to do it manually as Mercedes didn’t include a power-folding system — a bit disappointing for a six-figure car. The EQS SUV also lacks a frunk; like the EQS sedan, the hood is sealed.
The EQS SUV looks like a melting scoop of ice cream.
Installing a third row in an EV doesn’t have to be a problem. The Rivian R1S is close in overall size to the EQS SUV, but adults will actually be able to fit in its third row. And keep in mind the R1S has a shorter wheelbase than the EQS. Take the third row out of the equation, and the EQS SUV doesn’t feel more spacious than the two-row iX or Cadillac Lyriq.
 While the second row can be classed up with entertainment screens and pillows for the headrests, it also didn’t feel as comfortable as we’ve come to expect in high-end gasoline luxury SUVs.
The interior does look nice, though, largely repeating the design of the EQS sedan. The dashboard is a flat expanse sprouting screens and air vents, a look echoed in seat controls that stand proud of the door panels. Mercedes also chose some interesting color options, pairing blue trim on the upper door panels with white leather upholstery, for example.
Tech, infotainment, and driver assist The EQS SUV gets a version of the Mercedes-Benz User Experience (MBUX) infotainment system used in the automaker’s other models. A 12.8-inch portrait-oriented touchscreen and 12.3-inch digital instrument cluster are standard on the EQS 450+ and 450 4Matic models, while the more elaborate Hyperscreen display from the EQS sedan is optional on those models and standard on the range-topping EQS 580 4Matic. It consists of a 12.3-inch digital instrument cluster, 17.7-inch central touchscreen, and 12.3-inch front-passenger touchscreen all under one curved glass surface, combining to form 56 inches of screen space.
The Hyperscreen is more than just an obscenely large display. It also addresses infotainment fundamentals with eye-catching graphics and responsive touchpoints, as well as offering the same excellent voice recognition as other Mercedes models. Mercedes’ “Zero Layer” concept also lays out most functions as individual tiles across one screen, so you don’t have to navigate to different menus to find them. These features also impressed us in the EQE and EQS sedans, but the Hyperscreen might make more sense in the family-oriented EQS SUV, where a parent can make use of the front-passenger screen while serving as co-pilot on road trips.
The Hyperscreen is more than just an obscenely large display.
Other standard tech features include wireless Apple CarPlay and Android Auto connectivity, navigation with an augmented-reality feature that projects arrows to show turns, a fingerprint sensor for activating individual driver profiles, and a 15-speaker Burmester surround-sound system with Dolby Atmos tech. Wireless smartphone charging and six USB ports are included as well, while a head-up display and automatic toll transponder are optional.
Because it’s positioned as the flagship of the EQ SUV lineup, the EQS SUV gets the normally optional Driver Assistance Package as standard equipment. This includes Distronic adaptive cruise control (with route-based speed adaptation and stop-and-go functionality), automatic emergency braking, forward collision warning, lane-keep assist, and Pre-Safe Plus with Pre-Safe Sound and Pre-Safe Impulse Side. The Pre-Safe features are designed to minimize the chance of injury when a crash is deemed imminent. Pre-Safe Impulse Side inflates seat bolsters to move occupants away from the doors, while Pre-Safe Sound projects a noise designed to trigger a protective reflex in the human ear to prevent hearing loss.
Driving experience The base EQS 450 version has a single motor sending 355 horsepower and 419 pound-feet of torque to its rear wheels, enabling zero to 60 mph in a Mercedes-estimated 6.5 seconds. The EQS 450 4Matic model adds a second motor powering the front wheels, upping torque output to 590 lb-ft and lowering the zero to 60 mph time to 5.8 seconds.
The top EQS 580 4Matic also gets dual-motor all-wheel drive, but with a significant boost in power to 536 hp and 633 lb-ft of torque. This version does zero to 60 mph in a claimed 4.5 seconds, while all three versions have an electronically limited top speed of 130 mph. They also share the same 108.4-kilowatt-hour battery pack.
We drove all three versions on a loop of highways and backroads around Denver, Colorado, and didn’t find much subjective difference in real-world performance. The EQS 580 4Matic definitely felt as quick as the Mercedes-quoted zero to 60 mph time would suggest, but the two 450 versions weren’t exactly sluggish.
The EQS SUV had the excellent ride quality one should expect of a Mercedes.
The EQS SUV had the excellent ride quality one should expect of a Mercedes on the highway, and its standard rear-axle steering made maneuvering in tight spaces easier, but the EQS SUV wasn’t exactly a joy to drive on twisty roads. We weren’t expecting this luxurious Mercedes to be a sports car, but it leaned so much in corners that we needed to engage Sport mode just to provide a minimal level of composure. Other electric luxury SUVs like the BMW iX, Cadillac Lyriq, and Rivian R1S have a better balance between ride quality and handling.
While it uses the same regenerative braking system as the EQS sedan, we notice more issues in this application. Mercedes generally doesn’t support one-pedal driving, where an EV relies primarily on regenerative braking and lets the driver avoid using the brake pedal most of the time. But we found ourselves mashing the pedal even more in the EQS SUV than in other Mercedes EQ models. And the pedal itself felt hard and had little travel, making it difficult to gauge how much pressure was needed to get adequate deceleration. It wasn’t exactly a confidence-inspiring experience.
Mercedes was also keen to show off the EQS SUV’s off-road capability, taking us on a short rock-strewn course that briefly had us driving with a wheel off the ground. The EQS SUV didn’t get stuck, but we wouldn’t advise trying this at home. Because while Mercedes provides an off-road drive mode, air suspension that can be raised to improve ground clearance, and a camera system that shows a virtual view of the front wheels, it didn’t provide skid plates to protect the battery pack or an all-terrain tire option.
Range, charging, and safety Official range ratings haven’t been published yet, but Mercedes estimates a maximum 305 miles of range for the single-motor rear-wheel drive EQS 450+ and 285 miles for the dual-motor all-wheel drive EQS 450 4Matic and EQS 580 4Matic models. Those are impressive figures for such a large vehicle, but still fall short of the 332-mile range of the base Tesla Model X.
DC fast charging at 200 kilowatts enables a 10% to 80% charge in 31 minutes, while a Level 2 AC charger can take the battery from zero to 100% in 12.5 hours, according to Mercedes. As with other EQ models, Mercedes is offering unlimited free 30-minute DC fast-charging sessions at Electrify America locations for two years after activating a Mercedes Me account.
The Insurance Institute for Highway Safety (IIHS) and National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) haven’t released crash-test ratings for this new model.
Like other Mercedes models, the EQS SUV comes with a four-year, 50,000-mile, new-vehicle warranty. It also gets the same 10-year, 155,000-mile, battery warranty as other Mercedes EVs.
How DT would configure this car In addition to the EQS 450+, EQS 450 4Matic, and EQS 580 4Matic models, buyers will have three trim levels — Premium, Exclusive, and Pinnacle — to choose from. Our ideal configuration would be an EQS 450 4Matic in the Exclusive trim level.
The base Premium trim level comes well equipped with features like leather upholstery, heated and ventilated front seats, Burmester audio system with Dolby Atmos, Driver Assistance Package, and Parking Package with surround-view camera system. That takes care of most of the notable tech features, but we would consider upgrading to the Exclusive trim level, which adds a head-up display, as well as some useful convenience features like four-zone climate control and massaging front seats. The Hyperscreen is also a standalone option that adds a serious wow factor.
We would stick with the 450 4Matic rather than upgrading to the 580 4Matic because the latter’s extra power didn’t make enough of a subjective difference in the real world to justify its price premium. The base price for the EQS SUV 450 4Matic Exclusive is $112,800 with destination, plus the cost of the Hyperscreen, which Mercedes hadn’t priced out at the time of publication.
Stephen Edelstein / Digital Trends At that price, the EQS SUV really makes sense only within Mercedes’ internal hierarchy, where it slots above the upcoming EQE SUV and the EQB in size and level of standard equipment. Loyal Mercedes fans might also appreciate the option of the SUV body style for the EQS.
Beyond that, it doesn’t make sense to pay tens of thousands more over a BMW iX or Cadillac Lyriq , just for a cramped third row, or to pay a similar premium over the three-row Rivian R1S.
 Availability might be a factor, as supplies of the Cadillac and Rivian are fairly tight right now, but it’s still hard to think of anything that justifies the Mercedes’ price premium over other luxury electric SUVs.
Editors' Recommendations The Lucid Gravity has more range than any other electric SUV Acura’s resurrected ZDX SUV is an EV shortcut Volkswagen ID.7 shows not every EV needs to be an SUV Mercedes-Benz EQE SUV first drive review: ’90s look, cutting-edge tech Mercedes EV charging hubs are coming to North America by the end of the decade Cars Mercedes-Benz wants its EQ sub-brand to be an all-electric counterpart to its current lineup of gasoline luxury cars, and it’s working toward that goal by starting at opposite ends of the price spectrum and working toward the middle.
Where the EQS sedan and SUV are the flagships of the lineup, and the EQB serves as an entry-level offering, the 2023 Mercedes-Benz EQE sedan aims for the middle of the market. It’s pitched as an electric equivalent of the Mercedes E-Class, one of the automaker’s bread-and-butter models. And like the E-Class, the EQE will compete against sedans from Mercedes’ German rivals, such as the Audi e-tron GT, BMW i4, and Porsche Taycan. It will likely be cross-shopped against the Genesis Electrified G80, Lucid Air, and Tesla Model S as well.
The EQE sedan arrives at U.S. dealerships in late 2022 in four guises: base rear-wheel drive EQE 350+, all-wheel drive EQE 350 4Matic and EQE 500 4Matic, and an AMG EQE performance version. Mercedes hasn’t disclosed pricing for any of these models, but the EQE 350 4Matic we tested for this first drive will likely be a mid-tier trim level. Like its EQS sibling, the EQE will also get an SUV variant, which will launch sometime after the sedan version.
Design and interior The EQE has the same lozenge-like shape as the EQS sedan, which is dictated by aerodynamics. The appeal of the design is up for debate, but the smooth shape reduces aerodynamic drag, which helps improve efficiency and range. Under the skin, the EQE is also based on the same EVA2 architecture as the EQS sedan.
But while the two EQ sedans look similar at first glance, the EQE is a bit smaller than its sibling. It’s 10.6 inches shorter than the EQS sedan, with a 3.5-inch shorter wheelbase. Rear-seat passengers might notice the difference, but like its gasoline E-Class counterpart, the EQE is aimed more at drivers than passengers. Its tidier proportions were also a bit more pleasing to our eyes, making the EQE look sleeker than its sibling.
The interior design is minimalist while still maintaining functionality.
Cars Mercedes-Benz aims to go all-electric in at least some markets by 2030 but to do that it will need to launch electric equivalents of each of its many gasoline-powered models. The 2023 Mercedes-Benz EQB fits that description to the letter.
Where the EQS sedan aims to fill a similar role to the S-Class without directly copying it, the EQB is literally an electric version of an existing Mercedes crossover SUV — the GLB-Class. It uses the same body shell as the GLB, even retaining that model’s optional third-row seats.
Cars Mercedes-Benz isn’t afraid of bold design, but not every luxury car shopper wants a vehicle that looks like a spaceship. Some Mercedes models are meant to be trendsetters, but the GLC-Class SUV is aimed at people who don’t need to be early adopters.
The GLC is a small SUV of the type that’s become the default for many buyers. So while the redesigned 2023 Mercedes-Benz GLC-Class gets notable features like a redesigned infotainment system, “transparent hood” camera system, and mild-hybrid powertrain, it’s all packaged in a way that looks familiar.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
