Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Cars Reviews 2022 Audi e-tron GT first drive review: This slot car needs no track By Miles Branman Close Image used with permission by copyright holder Audi’s e-tron nameplate started life as a shrunken, R8-bodied concept that broke cover at the 2009 Frankfurt Motor Show. The all-electric supercar touted impressive tech for the time, including four electric motors, a 42-kWh battery, 156-mile range, and regenerative braking. But it was a full decade from the e-tron’s conceptual debut to Audi’s 2019 e-tron , its first series-production all-electric. In that time, pure EVs moved from novelty to mainstream, and Audi was no longer an alternative energy trendsetter. Now the German automaker is moving quickly to recover lost ground.
Design and Interior Tech, infotainment, and driver assist Driving experience Range, charging, and safety How DT would configure this car Our take Should you get one? By the end of this year, Audi’s two-car EV lineup will swell to five — the most exciting being a four-door coupe dubbed e-Tron GT. With prices starting at $99,900 (before factoring in a $7,500 federal tax credit), the e-tron GT will vie for Tesla’s Model S market share alongside its platform-mate, the Porsche Taycan.
 We spent a couple of hours of quality time with Audi’s standard e-tron GT before sliding behind the wheel of the hotter, pricier RS model for a quick tour of the Malibu canyons.
Design and Interior On paper, it seems foolish for Volkswagen Auto Group to allow both Porsche and Audi to occupy the same, still-niche segment, but a visual comparison proves the two EVs are aiming for different buyers.
Audi’s electric 2022 Q4 E-Tron packs big tech, lots of space in compact package Audi E-Tron vs. Jaguar I-Pace 2020 Audi E-Tron Sportback is all about style, but still has substance In contrast to the Taycan’s rounded panels and slippery shape, the e-tron GT is an angular slap to the face (that you strangely enjoy). A choice of gloss black or body color-matching grille dramatically alters the GT’s countenance; a uniform black beak highlights the EV’s sinister LED headlights while color contrast accentuates sharp creases and a dimpled insert. RS models add carbon fiber pieces for the side air channels.
Miles Branman/Digital Trends Clever battery packaging, including cutouts in the rear passenger floor, permits the e-Tron GT’s ultra-low roofline (the second shallowest in Audi’s product line, after the R8 supercar). Flared wheel arches and optional 21-inch wheels emphasize the GT’s performance potential. Unlike the svelte Taycan, Audi retains traditional handles for each of the e-tron GT’s doors. Amidst a display of hard pleats and grooves, we hardly notice the door ornaments (but appreciate their convenience).
A narrow greenhouse and wide wheel arches give the e-tron GT immense hips. Complementing physical width are visual tricks like a connected LED taillight bar and an uninterrupted character line. “Bottom-heavy” sounds critical, but the e-tron GT’s chunky diffuser is favorably reminiscent of an electric slot car in search of a track.
The interior is a work of abstract art, mingling premium materials with dynamic surfaces. The RS car dolls it up with carbon fiber inlays and Nappa leather seats, but we prefer the standard GT’s wood trim and leather-free seats. Both vehicles feature Alcantara wrapping for the flat-bottom steering wheel and door inserts for a thoroughly sporty vibe. The drive selector is nearly flush with the center console and intuitively designed. An e-tron badge illuminates from the passenger dashboard and matches selectable ambient light colors.
Miles Branman/Digital Trends Despite the gently tapering roofline, full-size adults fit easily in the GT’s rear seats. Deep footwells allow a more relaxed knee angle and a lower seat cushion aids headroom. Though the RS model’s carbon-fiber roof looks sharp and its Alcantara headliner feels exquisite, we prefer the massive panoramic glass panel in the standard e-tron. Trunk space is a respectable 14.3 cubic feet, and a narrow yet deep front trunk adds room for a carry-on bag or two.
Tech, infotainment, and driver assist Like all modern Audis, the e-tron GT is equipped with a stellar 12.3-inch digital instrument cluster housing a vast spread of available information, crisp visuals, and a user-friendly interface. Important snippets like speed, navigation, road sign info, and driver-assist features are duplicated on the head-up display. Most of the steering wheel controls are dedicated to the Virtual Cockpit cluster, but a voice command icon summons a virtual assistant to change everything from seat comfort settings to navigation.
As we’ve come to expect, Audi’s infotainment is responsive, vivid, and logical.
The e-tron splits the difference between the mono-display R8 and the rest of the Audi lineup’s three-screen assortment with a single 10.1-inch touchscreen infotainment to complement its digital dash. Audi claims the layout underlines driver focus, but it also distinguishes the e-tron GT’s cabin from the screen-rich Taycan (available with four monitors ). As we’ve come to expect, Audi’s infotainment is responsive, vivid, and logical. Haptic feedback controls and a tiled orientation permit quick, distraction-free manipulation.
The e-tron GT comes standard with forward collision warning and automatic emergency braking. Available add-ons include blind-spot monitoring with rear cross-traffic alerts, lane departure warning, lane-keep assist, and adaptive cruise control. Though we were too busy carving corners to demo the driving aids, these systems are executed well in other Audi models.
Driving experience The e-tron GT uses two electric motors and a 93-kWh battery to propel all four wheels. A single-speed direct drive unit turns instant electric torque into wicked 0-60 mph sprints (3.9 seconds for the standard GT and 3.1 seconds for the RS model) while a two-speed automatic keeps the EV accelerating at highway speeds. Audi quotes 522 horsepower for the base car and 637 hp for the RS model.
Miles Branman/Digital Trends Generously sized brakes peel off forward momentum with the help of adjustable levels of regenerative braking (via steering wheel-mounted paddles). The RS e-tron GT is equipped with surface-coated discs, though full carbon ceramics can be substituted for additional coin.
Those who have experienced the flurry of EV acceleration know the rush eventually fades, but the e-tron GT completes the performance picture with a special soundtrack and G-heavy dynamics. Audi’s “e-tron sound” was developed in-house to enhance the driving experience. Unlike amplifiers and artificial audio in gas-powered cars, the e-tron’s tune doesn’t make any attempt to sound like an internal combustion engine. Instead, the futuristic concert puts you at the helm of a spaceship mid-warp. The sound also changes based on drive mode and throttle tip-in to keep interstellar pilots engaged.
Driving hard in the rain shouldn’t be easy, but the RS e-tron GT missed the memo.
In the performance arena, an EV turns its low center of gravity into incredible grip. As if to demonstrate, the sky unleashed buckets of rain during our short circuit of the Malibu canyons, yet the RS e-tron GT didn’t flinch. With its traction and stability control systems fully engaged, the EV never once flashed a loss of traction as we pushed it through each bend. Greedy pulls of the accelerator and late stabs of the brake were met with effortless poise. Agreeable resistance through the steering and modular regen braking kept us tied to the experience, but it nonetheless felt a bit like cheating. Driving hard in the rain shouldn’t be easy, but the RS e-tron GT missed the memo.
Range, charging, and safety Though the EPA has yet to weigh in, Audi estimates the e-Tron GT will travel 238 miles and the RS e-tron GT 232 miles before needing juice. These figures are solid relative to the larger EV landscape, but far off the 402-mile range Tesla quotes for its long-range Model S.
When it is time to plug-in, drivers can do so via a charge port on the left or right side of the vehicle (handy for those with limited parking options). The charging news gets better, too. Thanks to standard 270 kWh charging, an 80% refill can take less than 23 mins. If access to DC fast charging is an issue, a Level 2 medium should fill the battery overnight.
Miles Branman/Digital Trends Crash-test ratings from the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety (IIHS) and National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) aren’t available at this time.
The e-tron GT gets a four-year, 50,000-mile limited warranty, plus an eight-year, 100,000-mile warranty for all electrical components, including the battery. Complimentary maintenance is also bundled for the first year or 10,000 miles.
How DT would configure this car The $139,900 RS e-tron’s potency isn’t to be understated, but we prefer the few extra miles of total range, all-glass roof, and $99,900 starting figure of the standard model. Furthermore, choosing the 522-horsepower e-tron GT doesn’t relinquish the platform’s killer handling.
Audi has yet to release full packaging, option, and pricing information, so we can only piece together our ideal e-tron GT from a handful of details. Amidst an exciting color palette, we’d opt for the golden-brown Tactical paint. Inside, we’d embrace a leather-free lifestyle courtesy of textile seats matched with real wood inlays.
Our take After a bit of a false start, Audi is on pace to convert 30% of its U.S. lineup to some form of electrification by 2025. Vehicles like the e-tron GT channel the excitement of the 2009 e-tron concept beautifully, making Audi’s e-transformation feel more like an exciting new era than a mandatory whip crack.
Miles Branman/Digital Trends The e-tron GT isn’t the only way to get a buzz, though. Porsche’s aforementioned Taycan can now be had in base form for $79,900, and while its 402 horsepower is a big step down from the standard e-tron’s 522, some may prefer the Taycan’s fluid curves to Audi’s hard creases. Then there’s the Tesla factor. Three years after Audi showed a futuristic R8, Tesla was selling its Model S with a range that would be competitive today. Of course, the EV upstart didn’t stop there. The current Model S Long Range tops 400 miles on a charge and a Plaid variant sizzles to 60 mph in under 2.0 seconds. More four-door competitors are coming soon, as well.
Between the e-tron and Taycan, aesthetic preference will persuade buyers, but Tesla can only be trumped in the ownership experience. Fit, finish, and familiarity will let conventional luxury consumers breathe easier in the new EV age. After all, you don’t need an advanced degree to operate the e-tron GT’s infotainment (or open its doors).
Should you get one? Yes. It won’t win a range war with Tesla’s Model S, but Audi’s e-tron GT brings genuine luxury and a dynamic form to the EV arena.
Editors' Recommendations Kia EV6 GT first-drive review: putting a little more fun into EVs 2021 Ford Mustang Mach-E first drive review: Electric muscle Here’s how Audi increased the electric E-Tron’s driving range 2020 Audi E-Tron Sportback, RS Q8 confirmed for 2019 LA Auto Show 2019 Audi E-Tron is the first electric car to earn top IIHS safety rating Audi Cars Previous Next Cars Audi e-tron extreme: Audi e-tron technology demonstrator climbs the Streif Audi is eager to show that its first mass-market electric car, the e-tron, is the real deal. The German automaker rolled the e-tron down Colorado's Pikes Peak to demonstrate its regenerative braking system, then sent it to Namibia to thrash in the desert. Now, an Audi e-tron has driven up a ski slope in the Austrian Alps.
Cars Porsche introduced the all-new 2020 911 at the 2018 Los Angeles Auto Show, but it's not done updating the current model. It will release a sexy Speedster in early 2019, and it unveiled a Clubsport version of the 911 GT2 RS -- the most powerful production 911 ever made -- alongside the new model in Los Angeles.
Sheathed in frenetic bodywork and wielding a bludgeon of an engine, the regular 911 GT2 RS is the kind of car that puts a shakedown on every other track day whip. Of all the 911 versions Porsche has made in the last two decades, the GT2 is by far the least forgiving. That being said, Porsche claims the latest model has been tamed. Tell us, does 700 horsepower and rear wheel drive sound tame to you? Borrowing the 3.8-liter, flat-six engine from the 911 Turbo S, the GT2 RS turns up the heat to 700 horses and 553 pound-feet of torque. The only transmission available is Porsche’s seven-speed dual-clutch unit, which might irritate purists but undeniably leads to faster acceleration figures and lap times.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
