Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Cars Reviews Lucid Air Grand Touring review: Let go of your range anxiety By Christian de Looper Close $154,000.00 Unbeatable 512-mile range Premium materials inside and out Fast and manueverable Smart blend of analog and digital controls Expensive Polarizing style Electric cars are still in their infancy. The fact is that they’re still working up to a range, charging speed, and charging locations, that can eliminate the worries associated with range anxiety. Even the best EVs have 300 miles or so — and when you consider the fact that the average gas-powered car has a range of over 400 miles, EVs clearly still have a way to go. But there’s one EV that feels a little more mature than the rest. And that’s despite the fact that the car is the first car of a completely new car company.
A sleek exterior and comfortable interior Screens everywhere The longest-range EV Driving in style Conclusions The Lucid Air is a perfect example of what an electric car in 2023 should be. It has a 500-mile-plus range, offers a thoughtful balance of digital-versus-physical controls, and looks relatively futuristic and premium. And all that for only … $80,000 for the base model.
Lucid joins other automakers by adopting Tesla charging plug The Lucid Air EV becomes the first car with Dolby Atmos sound Grounded for years, the Lucid Air electric car is finally ready to fly Sarcasm aside, the Lucid Air definitely feels like the first step towards longer-range, higher-quality electric cars. It isn’t perfect, but it’s getting close. I spent a week driving the car. Here are my thoughts.
A sleek exterior and comfortable interior The overall design of the Lucid Air is something that had to grow on me. After seeing pictures, and a few on the streets of the San Francisco Bay Area, I admittedly wasn’t convinced that I loved the exterior of the car. Frankly, I still don’t love it. But I don’t dislike it either, and it’s hard to deny the smooth lines and low-to-the-ground look. And, the company has managed to build a nose that doesn’t look completely out of place, like the EQS.
 The rear of the car looks pretty good too, with a light bar that runs along the entire back.
Christian de Looper / BGR Maybe my favorite part of the car’s design is the huge, expansive glass roof that stretches along the length of the car. On the inside, that means you have sunshades that are mounted directly to the glass but still look quite nice. The glass is interrupted in a few different areas, like along the center, but it still truly looks great both inside and out. Of course, this is not unique to the Lucid Air, but it’s still a trend that I hope to see catch on more.
The interior of the car is something that I immediately liked. The Air is spacious and comfortable, with premium materials and high-end features. Those include the likes of massagers, seat heating and cooling, and more. Really everything felt very nice, which was surprising for the first car from a new car company.
Christian de Looper / BGR Perhaps the main event for the interior of the car, however, is the tech.
Screens everywhere Stretched along the front of the car is a series of screens that you’ll interact with to control different aspects of the car. This, of course, isn’t uncommon — but Lucid definitely seems to have paid attention to ensuring that the displays are useful and easy to navigate.
Let’s go from left to right. All the way at the left is a small display that controls things like headlights and windshield wipers, along with the door for the charging port. The buttons are large enough to tap with a glance, and the headlights, for example, can be automatic — so you may not need to use these controls much anyway.
Christian de Looper / BGR To the right of that screen is the digital instrument display, which again, is stylish and well-designed. By default, it’s relatively stripped-back and basic, which I see as a good thing. It’ll show information like your speed and how much power you’re using or gaining, without cluttering the interface with unneeded information.
Next up is the infotainment screen, which is where you’ll control audio playback and mapping. Lucid’s interface here is fine, but I didn’t like it quite as much as the other interfaces in the car. Thankfully, Lucid finally added CarPlay support to the Air just a few months ago, and while it’s small and doesn’t fit the display super well, I relied on it for mapping and audio in the car.
So far, all of the screens are joined on one big panel along the front of the car, but the final screen is detached and placed where you would commonly find the gear selector. This screen, I actually really liked. From here, you’ll find controls for the driving mode, along with mirrors, seats, and some climate controls. A good indicator of an easy-to-use interface for me is how my wife handles it — and she was whizzing around the seat massager menu in seconds.
Christian de Looper / BGR Now, I will admit that accessing the climate controls from the screen isn’t as easy as using physical controls — but Lucid has also included physical climate controls, with a fan speed and temperature selector for the driver and passenger. You can get granular settings from the display, but 90% of the time, you won’t need to navigate to that menu — which is really nice.
The longest-range EV One of the headline-making features of the Lucid Air is its range, and for good reason. Even the base model of the Lucid Air has a range of up to 410 miles, which is more than any other EV on the market. If you’re willing to shell out for higher-end models like our Lucid Air Grand Touring review model, you can get up to 516 miles. No wonder the Air tops our list of electric cars with the longest range.
Christian de Looper / BGR That essentially eliminated range anxiety for me. Between normal day-to-day driving and a four-hour road trip (two hours each way), I only charged the car once at the end of my week with the car, and it still had almost 100 miles left on it. I didn’t necessarily go easy on the car either — I spent much of the time in Swift mode and pushed the car as often as possible. With the weather warming up, I often had the A/C on, too.
Even when you ultimately do need to charge the car, it charges pretty quickly. The charging station near me tops out at 150kW, but the car can charge at speeds of around 300kW — which should get that huge battery from 10% to 90% in around 45 minutes. That’s pretty stellar for such a large battery. It’s also worth noting that doesn’t mean you have to wait 45 minutes — we’re all used to filling up the gas tank, but you could charge for 20 minutes and still get back to around 50% or so, which would equate to over 200 miles of range.
Driving in style With a great range, solid interior design, and a good feature set, all that’s really left is driving the car — and driving it is a whole lot of fun. The Lucid Air Grand Touring in particular is very fast, and its steering is responsive enough, handling corners relatively well. Like any electric car, the acceleration is immediate and engaging, and Sprint mode lives up to the name.
Christian de Looper / BGR The car has some handy driver-assist features too. You’ll get all the usual features, like adaptive cruise control, forward collision warnings, and blind spot cameras that activate when you use a turn signal. It also has an auto park feature that works quite well. It’s a good suite of assistance features, but also about what you would expect from an EV in 2023.
Conclusions The Lucid Air proves the concept: Electric cars can have a range that matches their gas-powered counterparts, coupled with modern features and a stylish design.
But the fact that the Air has such a long range means that Lucid has a license to charge a little extra. The Air is in the luxury class of EVs, putting it in the same price category as the likes of the EQS and Model S.
 If you want the ultimate in interior comfort, then the EQS is probably the way to go. But if you’re looking for tech-forward features and a super long range, then the Lucid Air is the way to go.
Editors' Recommendations The Lucid Gravity has more range than any other electric SUV Lucid doubles down on horsepower with the Air Grand Touring Performance Tesla Model S vs. Lucid Air Apple Maps’ new EV feature aims to eliminate range anxiety Lucid Air electric car completes 400-mile loop between San Francisco and L.A.
Car Reviews Product Reviews Cars Lucid Motors is finally ready to unveil the production-ready version of its 1,000-horsepower electric car that boasts an impressive 400 miles of range. The Lucid Air was first seen in 2016 in preproduction guise, but the company has dragged its feet on getting the car ready for sale. The version customers will actually get to buy is scheduled to be unveiled in New York this April, Lucid said in a blog post.
The post did not give a specific date for the unveiling, but press days for the 2020 New York Auto Show are April 8-9, so Lucid may stage the unveiling around that time to take advantage of the convergence of automotive media on the Big Apple for the show.
Cars In 2016, Lucid Motors burst onto the scene with the Air, an electric luxury car boasting a claimed range of up to 400 miles, and a top speed of over 200 mph. Then the company went dark. Despite initially claiming that the Air was nearly ready for production, little has been heard from Lucid since. But the project is apparently still alive, as Lucid just unveiled what it calls a "beta prototype." The prototype is 95% representative of what the production model will be, according to a Lucid blog post. The company plans to build a fleet of 80 of these prototypes, which will be used to fine tune specifications ahead of the start of production. While production models will be built at a new factory in Casa Grande, Arizona, beta prototypes are built at the company's headquarters in Silicon Valley.
Cars Electrify America was created to spend $2 billion of Volkswagen "Dieselgate" penalty money on zero-emission vehicle infrastructure. So far, most of the money spent has gone to public charging stations along major highways, and in high-traffic urban areas. Now Electrify America also has something for drivers who like to charge their electric cars at home -- its first home charging station.
The charging station is a 240-volt Level 2 unit that can charge at up to 7.6 kilowatts. That allows for a charge up to six times faster than a standard 120-volt household outlet (also known as Level 1), according to Electrify America. Many drivers do more than 80% of their charging at home, Nina Huesgen, senior manager of Level 2 operations and program management at Electrify America, said in a statement. But the battery packs in many electric cars have gotten so big that charging from a household outlet isn't a practical option anymore -- hence the need for upgraded home charging equipment.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
