Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Cars Reviews Volkswagen ID. Buzz prototype first drive: Here comes your van By Ronan Glon Close This is it — this is the EV that we’ve been waiting for. It’s the production version of the Volkswagen ID.Buzz concept, which is called ID. Buzz (mind the gap, as the Brits say), and it’s a modern spin on the emblematic, rear-engined Bus that zig-zagged across America for decades. This 21st-century hippie van hasn’t been fully unveiled yet, we won’t see it without the psychedelic camouflage until March 9 , but I traveled to England to spend time behind the wheel of a pre-production model and get a better idea of whether the wait and the hype were worth it.
Years in the making Van life meets city life Here comes your van Haven’t we been here before? Years in the making Volkswagen presented the ID.Buzz as a concept at the 2017 edition of the Detroit auto show. Futuristic-looking and decked out with LEDs, the retro-inspired van was part of an ongoing series of design studies created to preview the different directions that the Wolfsburg-based firm can take its modular MEB platform in. Among others, we saw the 2016 ID. concept , which became the ID.3 hatchback , the ID.Buggy that I drove in California , and, more recently, the ID.Life built to preview an electric, city-friendly crossover tentatively due out in 2025.
On a secondary level, the ID.Buzz also stood out as the latest in a long line of concept cars that explored what a modern-day version of the Bus (which was officially called Type 2) could look like. Stroll through Volkswagen’s archives department and you’ll encounter concepts like the Microbus (2001), the Bulli (2011), and the BUDD-e (2016). None of these vans reached production; the Buzz is the exception to the rule.
Previous Next 1 5 Image used with permission by copyright holder Image used with permission by copyright holder Image used with permission by copyright holder Image used with permission by copyright holder Image used with permission by copyright holder What took so long? Volkswagen told me that its engineers had to clear several hurdles before they could make a modern-day Bus a reality. The term “iconic” gets thrown a lot in the automotive industry but the old Bus truly deserves it; it is, along with the original Beetle and the original Mini , one of the most recognizable cars ever built. Funneling this DNA into a van that can be mass-produced and sold globally in 2022 was easier said than done, and Volkswagen took its time because it couldn’t afford to screw up. That meant making the front end as flat as possible, like the original model’s, without ending up with a configuration in which the folks sitting in the front are the crumple zone.
Volkswagen ID.GTI concept is another icon reimagined as an EV 2022 Volkswagen ID. Buzz first drive review: The iconic hippie hauler goes electric VW will finally unveil its electric ID.Buzz production model in March Peeking through the camouflage reveals some of the changes that designers have made to the Buzz since 2017. Most of the LEDs have been erased from the front end, predictably, and the bottom part of the front bumper has a new, more production-friendly look to it. Walk around to the side and you’ll see door handles, which the design study didn’t have, while the back end gets bigger lights connected by a light bar. The overall proportions haven’t changed, however. The Buzz remains big, boxy, and a tribute to the Type 2 without being full-on retro. It’s not as heritage-laced as, say, the New Beetle that entered production in 1997, but it’s also a lot more interesting to look at than your average van.
Inside, well … that’s off-limits for the time being. You wouldn’t be wide of the mark if you assumed that the Buzz packs at least the same amount of technology as Volkswagen’s other ID-badged electric cars, like the ID.4 crossover , and that its interior is at least as spacious as its box-like proportions suggest. Driving aids are part of the package as well, and the Buzz will be used to test autonomous technology in Hamburg, Germany, starting in 2025. And, there’s no frunk: The only thing of interest behind the nose is the windshield washer fluid filler tube. Volkswagen told me that it could have easily added one, but it chose not to in order to keep the front overhang as short as possible.
Van life meets city life Here’s where we reach a fork in the road. I drove two versions of the ID. Buzz, a passenger-carrying five-seater van and a cargo-hauling panel van, and neither are coming to the United States. We’ll get a long-wheelbase model that will look just like the European model save for the bigger footprint and that hasn’t been unveiled yet. It should offer three rows of seats, though official details remain few and far between.
With that said, the standard-sized Buzz measures 185.5 inches long, 76.3 inches tall, and 78.1 inches wide. For context, it’s about as long as a Tiguan but 10 inches taller and approximately five inches wider. Its weight hasn’t been published yet. Power comes from a rear-mounted motor that draws electricity from an 82-kilowatt-hour lithium-ion battery pack to zap the rear wheels via 201 horsepower and 229 pound-feet of torque. Range? Volkswagen says that it should be “similar to the ID. models with the same battery pack,” or around 250 miles. Bi-directional charging will be available, so the van will be able to store juice from solar panels during the day and feed it back to your house.
Previous Next 1 7 Ronan Glon Ronan Glon Ronan Glon Ronan Glon Ronan Glon Ronan Glon Ronan Glon From behind the wheel, the Buzz feels unlike any van I’ve ever driven — including the original Bus, which I owned (and loved!) as a student 15 years ago. It’s interesting because, on one hand, you know you’re in a van. It’s spacious, almost cavernous, in a way that even the biggest SUVs on the market could only dream of. And yet, it’s stunningly easy to drive. It’s quick off the line thanks to the motor’s instant torque, it’s silent and linear like nearly all electric cars, and one of the most unexpected features is that it turns like a small hatchback. There’s no engine between the front wheels, so Volkswagen managed to dial in a 35-foot turning radius; that’s on par with an eighth-generation Golf’s. Turn the steering wheel and it keeps going, and going … and going. This is a feature that takes the hassle out of driving a van in tight urban areas.
It’s also not as top-heavy as a lot of vans on the market. That’s due to the battery pack: It’s the heaviest part of the car (it weighs over 1,000 pounds in the ID.4) and it’s mounted directly below the passenger compartment so it keeps the center of gravity low. These characteristics make the Buzz fun. Not in a Miata-on-a-twisty-road sort of way, but in the sense that it’s enjoyable because it feels more nimble than it is. The brake energy recuperation system makes one-pedal driving possible, though it can be turned off using a switch near the steering wheel if you’d rather use the brake pedal. It’s either on or off; there’s no intermediate setting for drivers who want just a little bit of regeneration.
Towing and payload check in at around 2,200 pounds and 1,289 pounds, respectively, which admittedly isn’t much. Outfitting one as a camper or pulling a small trailer shouldn’t be a problem, but don’t expect to tow your old Beetle to the next swap meet with a Buzz.
Here comes your van Volkswagen will begin building the people- and cargo-carrying variants of the ID. Buzz in Hanover, Germany, during the first half of 2022, and the first units are scheduled to reach dealers across Europe before the end of the year. Pricing has not been released yet. The long-wheelbase model that will be sold in the United States will be unveiled soon, and expect to see it in showrooms in 2024 at the latest. Will it be a volume model? Not by any stretch of the imagination. But, if there’s one car that can make America fall in love with vans again, this is it.
Guessing that different battery sizes and dual-motor all-wheel-drive will be made available at some point in the production run wouldn’t be taking us too far in the hopscotch game of speculation. This is a modular platform, after all, and taking advantage of it makes sense from an economics standpoint. More space between the wheels means more space for battery cells, but nothing has been announced as of writing.
Haven’t we been here before? In our market, the original Bus was exclusively available with an air-cooled flat-four engine. And yet, electrification was already on Volkswagen’s mind in the 1970s, due largely to the rising cost of oil. Several battery-powered prototypes were built, and 10 of them were purchased by the Electric Power Research Institute and assigned to the Tennessee Valley Authority for testing in various conditions. Shown below, these experimental vans looked just like the regular-production model with the exception of powertrain-specific graphics, cooling vents added to the sliding doors to keep the battery’s temperature in check, and a charging port installed next to the driver-side rear light.
Looking at the specifications sheet reveals how far electric technology has come in the past decades. Power for the electric Bus came from 72 lead-acid batteries stuffed under a raised floor and a motor bolted to a stock four-speed manual transmission locked in second gear. Drivers had 23 horsepower under their right foot, which was enough for a top speed of 43 mph. Driving range checked in at about 25 miles in ideal conditions, though the prototypes were fitted with a primitive brake energy recuperation system and the battery pack could be swapped out.
Previous Next 1 9 Ronan Glon Ronan Glon Ronan Glon Ronan Glon Ronan Glon Ronan Glon Ronan Glon Ronan Glon Ronan Glon Editors' Recommendations Volkswagen ID.4 vs Tesla Model Y Volkswagen ID.7 shows not every EV needs to be an SUV The Volkswagen Bus is back, and this time it’s electric 2022 BMW i4 first drive review: The real deal 2022 BMW iX first drive: Shifting paradigms Cars Volkswagen launched the 2021 ID.4 electric car earlier this year with an ambitious mission: To take on popular gasoline crossover SUVs like the Honda CR-V and Toyota RAV4 in a bid to capture the heart of the new-car market. However, the ID.4 was missing one thing.
One of the main reasons buyers choose crossovers over sedans and hatchbacks is the availability of all-wheel drive. At launch, the ID.4 didn’t have that. VW said an all-wheel-drive ID.4 was on the way, though, and now the wait is over.
Cars One major issue continues to stand in the way of electric cars: Cost. They tend to be more expensive than comparable gasoline-powered vehicles. Volkswagen plans to make EVs relatively affordable in the not-too-distant future, and it unveiled a small, city-friendly concept called ID.Life at this week's 2021 Munich auto show to illustrate what it has in store.
Volkswagen is thinking small: The ID.Life measures 161.6 inches from bumper to bumper, 72.6 inches wide, and 63 inches tall. Put another way, it's a couple of inches longer and narrower than a Hyundai Venue. It's characterized by a pure, simple exterior design and a silhouette that blurs the line between a hatchback and a crossover. Users can remove the roof panel — the design of which can be personalized — to transform the ID.Life into a quasi-convertible.
Cars Volkswagen is leveraging its partnership with Pittsburgh-based Argo AI to build an autonomous version of the ID.Buzz, an electric van with a heritage-laced design that will make its debut in the coming years. Unveiled at this week's 2021 Munich auto show, the prototype is fitted with an armada of cameras, as well as lidar and radar sensors.
It doesn't take a well-trained eye to tell that the ID.Buzz AD is autonomous. Its hardware suite is clearly visible: Argo AI's proprietary lidar is notably mounted on the van's roof, where it's perfectly positioned to scope out the road ahead. Bryan Salesky, Argo AI's founder and CEO, said the lidar can detect objects up to 1,300 feet away.
Building a van capable of driving itself in a controlled environment is relatively easy. Deploying it in real-life conditions, where it will encounter construction, dogs, and pedestrians, is far more difficult. Salesky warned that improvements in autonomous technology will be gradual -- there's not going to be a big boom -- but he pointed out that modernizing the infrastructure will play a significant role in helping driverless cars reduce traffic in big cities.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
