Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Cars News The all-electric BMW i7 is a home theater on wheels By Stephen Edelstein Close BMW is no stranger to electric vehicles. It launched the quirky i3 hatchback in 2014, and followed it up more recently with the i4 and iX.
 But now BMW is making its flagship vehicle electric.
Design Tech Specifications Pricing and rivals The BMW 7 Series is the automaker’s biggest, most opulent sedan, and for the 2023 model year, it gets a redesign that includes a first-ever electric variant. The 2023 BMW i7 xDrive60 (to use its full name) will start shipping to U.S. dealerships in November alongside gasoline 7 Series models (a hybrid version will arrive later as well).
While all 7 Series models get dramatic new styling , an elaborate infotainment system, and optional rear-seat entertainment system, BMW’s decision to launch an electric version of a gasoline model puts it out of step with other makers of high-end sedans. Mercedes-Benz chose to design its EQS sedan from the ground up rather than make an electric S-Class. The i7 will be priced close to the Lucid Air and Tesla Model S, Both sporty and posh, the i5 may be the electric BMW you’ve been waiting for Business upfront, 31-inch TV in the back. BMW’s electric i7 is a screening room on wheels BMW shows off an electric car with color-changing paint at CES 2022 BMW has its own family of purpose-built EVs on the way. Dubbed Neue Klasse (German for “New Class”) in reference to a family of models that saved the company in the 1960s , they won’t arrive until 2025. So is the i7 just a placeholder, or a worthy EV in its own right? Design The i7 shares exterior styling with the gasoline 7 Series, marking a dramatic departure from previous 7 Series models. In keeping with recent BMW design practices, the i7 gets a massive grille that looks like a butterflied steak, with available illumination.
BMW is also switching things up with stacked lighting elements that place the daytime running lights above the headlights, not unlike the arrangement you get on a Hyundai Kona.
 European models get matrix LED tech that can automatically redirect high beams away from oncoming cars, but this won’t be available in the U.S. pending implementation of new regulations.
Walking around the i7 during a media preview, the thing that stood out was the car’s gargantuan size. It’s still a sedan with a fairly low seating position, but it has considerable visual girth nonetheless. The hood is so tall that it actually sits above the grille, and the trunk lid has what looks like a double chin to hide its height. The car we saw had 20-inch wheels, but they looked tiny positioned within the massive expanse of sheet metal.
Like the exterior, the interior is a major change from previous iterations of the 7 Series. In place of the outgoing model’s conservative design is a shelf-like dashboard shaped to house the new freestanding BMW Curved Display screen, elaborate speaker grilles, and ambient lighting to match the rival Mercedes S-Class.
 Dashboard trim, seat controls, infotainment system controller, and the shifter are also rendered in a crystal material that wouldn’t look out of place on the set of the original Star Trek series.
Tech The i7’s signature piece of tech isn’t for the driver. It’s the optional Theater Screen, a 31.3-inch 8K display that folds down from the headliner, letting rear-seat passengers stream movies and television shows or play video games at speed. Videos are displayed in 16:9, 21:9, or 32:9 cinemascope aspect ratios.
Amazon Fire TV and a Bowers & Wilkins Diamond surround sound system are included as well, along with smartphone-like controllers in the rear doors. Netflix integration will allow users to start a movie at home and finish it in the car, Pieter Nota, BMW North America board member for customer affairs, said at the i7 media preview. However, the Theater Screen will likely limit rear visibility and, with an expected $4,750 price tag, it won’t be cheap.
Up front, the aforementioned BMW Curved Display consists of a 12.3-inch instrument cluster and 14.9-inch touchscreen under one piece of glass. BMW’s iDrive infotainment system returns with its familiar rotary controller, but also gains a new Interaction Bar with touchpads for climate control and other functions. The i7 also gets 5G connectivity and over-the-air (OTA) update capability.
BMW also collaborated with Academy Award-winning composer Hans Zimmer on distinctive sounds activated when the driver starts the car, or when switching between different drive modes.
The i7 gets a long list of available driver aids. The headline feature is Highway Assistant, which provides what BMW calls hands-free driving at speeds up to 80 mph, although it still requires drivers to pay attention and be ready to grab the steering wheel is needed. Other features include forward-collision warning, lane-departure warning, speed-limit assist, and an automated parking feature.
Specifications The i7 launches with a dual-motor all-wheel drive powertrain producing 536 horsepower and 549 pound-feet of torque. BMW says it will do zero to 60 mph in 4.5 seconds, and the top speed is electronically limited to 149 mph.
Those specs are pretty close to the 760i xDrive, the more powerful of the two gasoline 7 Series models that will be available at launch. This model’s 4.4-liter twin-turbocharged V8 produces identical horsepower to the i7, but with 553 lb-ft of torque. BMW also quotes a slightly quicker 4.2-second zero-to-60 mph time.
BMW isn’t stopping there, though. At a media roundtable, chairman Oliver Zipse confirmed that the automaker will also launch an M Performance version of the i7, adding that it will be the most powerful 7 Series model.
BMW is also targeting 300 miles of range for the i7. The big sedan will be able to charge at up to 11 kilowatts using an AC charger and 195 kilowatts using DC fast charging, with the latter adding 80 miles of range in 10 minutes. Owners will also get three years of free DC fast charging from Electrify America.
Pricing and rivals “We don’t want customers to make any compromises going from one vehicle to another,” Zipse told Digital Trends regarding the rationale for making an electric version of a gasoline car rather than a clean-sheet EV. “They get a 7 Series either way.” The 2023 7 Series may be well positioned against traditional rivals like the Mercedes S-Class , Audi A8, and Lexus LS , but the i7 might not stack up as well against the electric competition.
A 300-mile range is adequate, but that puts the i7 far behind the 516-mile Lucid Air , 405-mile Tesla Model S, and 350-mile Mercedes EQS.
 It’s also unclear if EV buyers will want a car that looks like an old-fashioned gas guzzler, complete with an elongated hood designed to accommodate a V8 engine.
By making the i7 so similar to the gasoline 7 Series, BMW may have also stacked the deck against it. Until that M Performance version arrives, the i7 can only match its sibling in performance while demanding a price premium. Pricing for the i7 xDrive60 model starts at $120,295, compared to $114,595 for the gasoline 760i xDrive. BMW is also building a less-powerful six-cylinder 740i model starting at $94,295.
So it’s possible that many customers will choose the cheaper gasoline models, which also don’t come with the headaches of charging. The 7 Series is an impressive car, but the i7 doesn’t seem ready to attract new EV buyers.
Editors' Recommendations The BMW i7 M70 is an electric limousine that does supercar speeds 2024 BMW i5 unveiled as the first electric 5 Series A mysterious new Intel i7 chip just showed up in tests 2023 BMW iX M60 is electric, spacious, and surprisingly quick Intel Core i7-12800H CPU outperforms Apple M1 Max in new benchmark News Tech News Cars We've heard a lot about BMW M's long-awaited electric sedan in recent years. We analyzed the hurdles that engineers had to clear to make the model a reality, notably weight, and we outlined the benefits that come with a performance-tuned electric powertrain, like instant torque. Years in the making, the end result is finally here. It's called i4, and it's a hugely significant car that electrifies the very essence of BMW.
Was it worth waiting for? I headed to its home turf to check it out.
Cars When BMW paraded an orange, electric 1602 at the 1972 Munich Olympic Games, no one dared imagine the project would lead to this: The iX. Pronounced "eye-ex," rather than "ix" or the Roman numeral nine, the iX is more than another electric SUV. It's a segment-bending family-hauler that breaks new ground for BMW while showcasing the technology that will spread across the range in the coming years.
Previous Mobile Rumors of delays to production of the Apple Watch Series 7 are greatly exaggerated, according to reliable Apple analyst Ming-Chi Kuo. We're now expecting to see the new iPhone 13, the AirPods 3, and the Apple Watch Series 7 launch simultaneously at tomorrow's "California Streaming" event. While there were some concerns about issues with mass production, Kuo says that production will continue as scheduled. In other words, there will be no delays in getting the latest Apple gear.
The latest word from Kuo goes against a Nikkei story at the beginning of this month that stated Apple was facing serious production delays due to the complexity of assembling the Series 7. "The current disappointing production quality could be attributed to the complexity of the design, which is significantly different from that of previous generations of the watch, and assemblers found issues putting together electronics modules, components, and displays." Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
