Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Cars News 2024 BMW i5 unveiled as the first electric 5 Series By Ronan Glon Close 2024 BMW i5 BMW The new 2024 BMW 5 Series is two cars in one. On one hand, there’s the eighth-generation gasoline-powered sedan that will represent the bulk of sales in most markets. On the other hand, for the first time in the nameplate’s long history, there’s an electric version called i5.
BMW developed the i5 and the 5 Series concurrently, and the two cars look pretty much alike with the exception of small, powertrain-specific details such as emblems. Both sedans remain instantly recognizable as members of the Munich-based company’s family, but they’re far less extroverted than, say, the XM.
 BMW told me that’s intentional: they’re aimed at an audience that prefers a more subtle-looking design.
Going electric forced BMW’s designers to make the i5 slightly taller than the outgoing 5 Series to clear space for the battery pack, and the sedan grew in length and in width as well to retain elegant proportions. It stretches 199.2 inches long, 74.8 inches wide, and 59.6 inches tall.
Previous Next 1 22 2024 BMW i5 Image used with permission by copyright holder 2024 BMW i5 Image used with permission by copyright holder 2024 BMW i5 Image used with permission by copyright holder 2024 BMW i5 Image used with permission by copyright holder 2024 BMW i5 Image used with permission by copyright holder 2024 BMW i5 Image used with permission by copyright holder 2024 BMW i5 Image used with permission by copyright holder 2024 BMW i5 Image used with permission by copyright holder 2024 BMW i5 Image used with permission by copyright holder 2024 BMW i5 Image used with permission by copyright holder 2024 BMW i5 Image used with permission by copyright holder Image used with permission by copyright holder 2024 BMW i5 Image used with permission by copyright holder 2024 BMW i5 Image used with permission by copyright holder 2024 BMW i5 Image used with permission by copyright holder 2024 BMW i5 Image used with permission by copyright holder 2024 BMW i5 Image used with permission by copyright holder 2024 BMW i5 Image used with permission by copyright holder Image used with permission by copyright holder 2024 BMW i5 Image used with permission by copyright holder 2024 BMW i5 Image used with permission by copyright holder 2024 BMW i5 Image used with permission by copyright holder In turn, the bigger dimensions create a more spacious cabin: BMW notes that the rear-seat passengers enjoy more legroom than in the last-generation 5 Series. The outgoing car doesn’t feel cramped, however, and the technology packed in the i5 is likely to attract more eyeballs than the interior dimensions. The driver faces a big screen called Curved Display that’s already found in the i4 , among other recent additions to the BMW range. It’s a frameless, freestanding screen that neatly groups a 12.3-inch digital instrument cluster and a 14.9-inch touchscreen for the Operating System 8.5 infotainment system into a single unit.
Apple CarPlay and Android Auto compatibility come standard.
Both sporty and posh, the i5 may be the electric BMW you’ve been waiting for Business upfront, 31-inch TV in the back. BMW’s electric i7 is a screening room on wheels Jeep is launching its first two electric SUVs in the U.S. in 2024 One of the coolest features in the i5 is an in-car gaming system called AirConsole that lets the passengers play a variety of games using their smartphone as a controller. This function only works when the car is stopped, you won’t see an i5 driver racing go-karts while driving down I-15, and BMW notes it should be particularly useful to kill time during charging stops. Approximately 20 games will initially be offered.
BMW has historically offered the 5 Series with different levels of power, and the i5 continues this trend. The entry-level eDrive40 model uses a single, rear-mounted electric motor rated at 335 horsepower and 295 pound-feet of instant torque. Next up is the M60 xDrive, which gains a second electric motor up front for through-the-road all-wheel-drive and a total output of 590 horsepower and 586 pound-feet of torque. Both versions use an 84.3-kilowatt-hour lithium-ion battery pack compatible with 205-kilowatt charging. While the EPA hasn’t tested the i5 yet, BMW estimates a 295-mile driving range rating for the rear-wheel-drive model and a 256-mile rating for the all-wheel-drive car.
Highway Assistant technology included in the optional Driving Assistance Professional package enables what the firm refers to as “attentive hands-free driving” at up to 85 mph. This system doesn’t make the i5 autonomous, it’s not BMW-speak for “nap time,” but it keeps the car moving at a pre-set speed and centered in its lane. BMW is serious about the “hands-free” label: thanks to eye-tracking technology, the Active Lane Change technology also included in the package lets the driver confirm a lane change by simply looking at the right or left door mirror.
Production of the 2024 BMW i5 is scheduled to start later in 2023. Pricing for the eDrive40 starts at $67,795 including a mandatory $995 destination charge, while the M60 xDrive carries a base price of $85,095; it will be the most expensive member of the range at launch.
What about the 5 Series? BMW isn’t leaving behind the buyers who aren’t interested in going electric. The new 5 Series range will initially include two models called 530i and 540i xDrive. Offered with rear- or all-wheel-drive, the entry-level model ($58,895) uses a turbocharged, 2.0-liter four-cylinder engine rated at 255 horsepower and 295 pound-feet of torque. The all-wheel-drive-only 540i ($65,895) benefits from a 3.0-liter straight-six that’s turbocharged to 375 horsepower and up to 398 pound-feet of torque when an overboost function kicks in.
Both engines are linked to a 48-volt mild-hybrid system, and BMW confirmed that a plug-in hybrid model will arrive in American showrooms in 2024.
Editors' Recommendations The BMW i7 M70 is an electric limousine that does supercar speeds Lamborghini teases its first all-electric supercar ahead of Friday’s big reveal Check out Spectre, Rolls-Royce’s first all-electric car 2022 Volkswagen ID. Buzz first drive review: The iconic hippie hauler goes electric The all-electric BMW i7 is a home theater on wheels Tech News Cars Volkswagen is finally ready to take the wraps off one of its most anticipated EVs. The Volkswagen ID.Buzz electric van will make its public debut March 9, VW CEO Herbert Diess tweeted Thursday, ending five years of buildup.
The original ID.Buzz concept was unveiled at the 2017 Detroit Auto Show, and drew positive attention for retro styling referencing the classic Volkswagen Type 2, also known the Microbus. VW confirmed plans for a production version shortly after the concept's unveiling, and gave a peek at a cargo version in 2018. Argo AI is also using ID.Buzz prototypes for autonomous-driving development work, in anticipation of an autonomous mobility service launch in Hamburg, Germany, that's tentatively scheduled for 2025.
Cars From engine sounds to seat massagers, modern cars let drivers personalize almost everything. At CES 2022, BMW is taking that idea a step further with a concept version of its iX electric SUV that sports color-changing paint.
The effect relies on E Ink, the same electronic paper technology used in e-readers. Millions of microcapsules approximately the diameter of a human hair are embedded in an exterior wrap made from laser-cut electronic paper segments, according to BMW. They contain negatively charged white pigments and positively charged black pigments. Activating an electric field causes different amounts of each pigment to collect on the surface, shifting the color between black, white, and gray with the press of a button.
Cars BMW's performance-obsessed M division is celebrating its 50th anniversary in 2022. It kicked off its birthday celebration by unveiling the 2023 iX M60, an evolution of the electric iX that stands out with stunningly quick acceleration, a usable driving range, and a subtle design.
It takes a well-trained eye to tell the M60 model apart from the standard iX, which was introduced in 2020. Look closely and you'll notice blue brake calipers hidden behind version-specific aerodynamic wheels and a handful of M logos scattered across the exterior. The wings, vents, and generally muscular-looking design cues we're used to seeing on BMW's M models are nowhere to be found, and that's intentional.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
