Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Cars Reviews 2020 Hyundai Sonata Hybrid first drive review: Chase the sun By Stephen Edelstein Close Sleek design Spacious interior Comfortable ride Impressive tech Disappointing real-world gas mileage Hates corners The 2020 Hyundai Sonata is a near-perfect midsize sedan.
 It has excellent road manners and tech features you won’t find in any other car in this price range. However, while the stuff on the dashboard is impressive, the stuff under the hood isn’t. The engines available at launch are merely adequate.
Design and interior Tech, infotainment, and driver assist Driving experience Gas mileage and safety How DT would configure this car Our take Should you get one? Timed to go on sale in June, the 2020 Hyundai Sonata Hybrid will be offered in Blue, SEL, and Limited trims. Our test car was the top Limited model, which gets all of the headline tech features, including a digital instrument cluster, Digital Key smartphone control, and a solar roof that can help recharge the battery pack. Hyundai hasn’t released pricing yet, but expect the hybrid model to carry a premium over the standard Sonata, which is priced between roughly $24,000 and $34,000.
2024 Mercedes-AMG S63 E Performance first drive review: high-performance plug-in Hyundai Ioniq 6 first drive review: welcome to the future 2022 Volkswagen ID. Buzz first drive review: The iconic hippie hauler goes electric During our time with the Sonata, we found that Hyundai has a few more tricks up its sleeve. Is better gas mileage the missing piece of the Sonata puzzle? Design and interior It takes a sharp eye to spot the differences between the Sonata Hybrid and the standard Sonata. The differences are limited to a new grille, wheels, and rear spoiler. Even those changes were made for aerodynamic efficiency, not aesthetics. Hyundai was already happy with the existing Sonata exterior design.
“It’s not about making a green vehicle statement. It’s about making a great design statement overall,” Scott Margason, director of product planning for Hyundai Motor America, told Digital Trends.
The Sonata already had a fairly extroverted look, after all. Designers gave it a sleeker profile than the average sedan, as well as trick “Hidden Lighting Lamps” that turn the hood into a laser light show. These extra lighting elements extend back from the headlights, and blend in with the car’s chrome trim when switched off.
Despite the addition of a battery pack, Hyundai said the Sonata Hybrid has the same amount of trunk space as the standard Sonata. That also works out to more trunk space than the Toyota Camry Hybrid , but less than the Honda Accord Hybrid. The Sonata Hybrid also has more front and rear legroom than the Camry and Accord, but the Japanese hybrids offer substantially more rear legroom.
“It’s not about making a green vehicle statement. It’s about making a great design statement overall.” The driver’s seat of the Sonata Hybrid is a great place to be. The dashboard touchscreen and center console storage trays are perfectly placed, the steering wheel is just the right size, and the car offers excellent outward visibility.
Tech, infotainment, and driver assist The standard infotainment setup includes an 8.0-inch touchscreen with Apple CarPlay and Android Auto. Limited models get a 10.25-inch touchscreen, along with a 12.3-inch digital instrument cluster and a head-up display. Screen graphics are crisp and clear, and the main touchscreen has a nice swiping action for switching menus. Hyundai didn’t go overboard with screens, though. Designers also included analog controls for functions like audio volume, where a knob works better than a swipe.
The digital instrument cluster allows for an upgraded blind spot monitoring system, which automatically shows the view from exterior cameras when you tap the turn signals. It’s a simple but helpful feature, and a step above what competitors offer. However, it’s also an optional extra. Standard driver aids include adaptive cruise control, lane keep assist, autonomous emergency braking, and automatic high beams. These features are also standard on the rival Honda Accord Hybrid and Toyota Camry Hybrid. But Hyundai also made rear cross traffic alert standard. That feature is optional on the Toyota and not available on the Honda.
Stephen Edelstein/Digital Trends The Sonata Hybrid can also be upgraded with Lane Follow Assist. As the name suggests, it follows the road rather than waiting for the car to start veering out of its lane before intervening. This feature worked well during a previous drive in the non-hybrid Sonata in Arizona, but didn’t seem as composed on the New York roads where we drove the hybrid. The steering wheel twitched constantly as the system made small steering inputs, as if someone had given the computers a double shot of espresso.
Hyundai didn’t go overboard with screens.
Another tech feature that carries over from the non-hybrid Sonata is Hyundai’s Digital Key.
 Standard on the SEL and Limited trim levels, this lets the driver use a smartphone in place of a conventional key fob. While some automakers offer remote unlocking or engine start through an app, only Hyundai, Lincoln , and Tesla currently allow drivers to get in and drive away using only a smartphone.
 The Digital Key can also be remotely transferred to other people, in case you want to let someone borrow your car. The feature is only compatible with certain Android phones right now.
One tech feature the Sonata Hybrid misses out on is Remote Smart Parking Assist, which you may have seen in Hyundai’s Boston-accented Super Bowl ad.
 The feature, which allows the car to pull in and out of tight parking spaces by itself, is available on the standard Sonata but not the hybrid. It needs to be recalibrated for the hybrid powertrain, and will be added at a later date, according to Hyundai.
Driving experience The hybrid powertrain is a good fit for the Sonata’s laid-back character, but don’t expect impressive numbers.
The Sonata Hybrid uses a 2.0-liter four-cylinder engine assisted by a single electric motor. Total system output is 192 horsepower. That’s just 1 hp more than the base engine for the non-hybrid Sonata, and substantially less than the Honda Accord and Toyota Camry hybrids.
Unlike Honda and Toyota, Hyundai has kept a conventional transmission as part of its hybrid system. The Sonata Hybrid’s six-speed automatic has a software feature called Active Shift Control, which uses the electric motor to add or subtract torque on the transmission’s input shaft. That provides quicker shifts (meaning less interruption in power while accelerating) and better gas mileage, according to Hyundai.
Using a conventional transmission is significant because it makes the Sonata Hybrid feel more like a normal car. Power is applied in a much more linear fashion than in the Honda or Toyota hybrid systems, and the transfer between electricity and gasoline is smooth.
The hybrid powertrain is a good fit for the Sonata’s laid-back character, but don’t expect impressive numbers.
Hyundai also did a good job calibrating the driving modes. Sport provides the right amount of extra urgency, and Eco isn’t the penalty box it is in most other cars. Hyundai also included a Smart mode, which automatically toggles between the other modes depending on conditions. But not everything was so finely tuned.
Hyundai brought in Albert Biermann, former boss of BMW’s M performance division, to make its cars more exciting. But Biermann must have been on vacation when the Sonata Hybrid’s suspension tuning was done. This car’s handling is more Buick than BMW. The steering wheel feels like it isn’t connected to anything, and body roll in sharp corners is so severe that the car feels like it’s going to tip over.
We noticed similar tendencies in the non-hybrid Sonata, but the twistier roads at this testing location made those tendencies even more apparent. The Sonata Hybrid had a better showing on highways, where its floppy suspension yielded one of the smoothest rides of any midsize sedan. This is clearly a car designed for road trips and commuting, not curvy roads. If you want a sporty Sonata, check back when the N-Line model goes on sale.
Gas mileage and safety Hyundai advertised impressive gas mileage figures for the 2020 Sonata Hybrid, but they weren’t achievable in real-world driving. The base Blue model is rated at 52 mpg combined (50 mpg city, 54 mpg highway), while the SEL and Limited are rated at 47 mpg combined (45 mpg city, 51 mpg highway). A 50-mpg rating was once Prius territory, so it’s impressive to see a more conventional midsize sedan reach that mark.
But the Sonata Hybrid does not have much of an advantage over its rivals. The Camry Hybrid is rated at 52 mpg combined (51 mpg city, 53 mpg highway) in LE trim. The Accord Hybrid is rated at 48 mpg combined (48 mpg city, 47 mpg highway). Over a week of driving, the Hyundai’s real-world fuel efficiency was also much lower, at an average 38.1 mpg, according to the car’s trip computer.
Perhaps the number would have been higher if we were able to make better use of the Sonata’s solar roof. Solar cells are used to charge the 12-volt battery (to keep it from draining while the car is parked) and the hybrid system’s battery pack, allowing for greater use of electric power. The roof can add 2 miles of driving range per day, according to Hyundai, but persistent clouds meant it didn’t get much use. Drivers in sunnier climes may get better results.
The non-hybrid 2020 Sonata received a Top Safety Pick rating for the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety (IIHS), but the organization did not provide a specific rating for the hybrid model. The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration ( NHTSA ) hasn’t rated any 2020 Sonata models.
Hyundai’s 10-year, 100,000-mile powertrain warranty and five-year, 60,000-mile limited warranty are unmatched by Honda and Toyota. The 2020 Sonata Hybrid is a new model, but Hyundai has a good overall reputation for reliability.
How DT would configure this car If you want the most tech in your Sonata Hybrid, you need to go with the top Limited trim level. It’s the only trim level available with the solar roof, as well as the triple threat of a 12.3-inch instrument cluster, 10.25-inch touchscreen, and head-up display.
The Limited’s extra features add weight, which is why it isn’t as fuel efficient as the entry-level Blue model. Hyundai forces buyers to choose between gas mileage and tech, unfortunately.
Our take The hybrid powertrain improves the 2020 Sonata, but doesn’t transform it. Driving dynamics are roughly the same as before and, while you do get better gas mileage, it’s important to keep expectations in check. The Sonata also drives more like a regular car than its Honda and Toyota rivals, which some buyers might prefer.
The best things about the 2020 Sonata Hybrid carry over from the non-hybrid version. The highlights include a comfortable ride, advanced driver aids, and a well-designed infotainment system. The hybrid’s solar roof is a neat piece of tech that could improve real-world efficiency, but it’s dependent on weather conditions.
Should you get one? Yes. The 2020 Hyundai Sonata Hybrid is a good car that just happens to be a hybrid.
Editors' Recommendations Mercedes-AMG EQE SUV first drive review: a better electric SUV Mercedes-Benz EQE SUV first drive review: ’90s look, cutting-edge tech 2023 Kia Niro EV first drive review: Practical doesn’t have to bore you to tears 2022 Mercedes-Benz EQB first drive review: An EV better than its gas sibling 2022 Rivian R1S first drive review: An EV SUV fit for an expedition or a drag race Car Reviews Hyundai Product Reviews Cars The 2023 Cadillac Lyriq feels like it’s taken forever to arrive, and not just because Cadillac first showed it almost two years ago. This electric SUV is also a big step toward fulfilling General Motors’ EV potential.
GM showed that it could be a leader in electrification with the Chevrolet Bolt EV, but never seemed confident enough in the little electric hatchback to aggressively promote it. The GMC Hummer EV debuted GM’s next-generation Ultium tech, but in the form of a four-wheeled vanity project targeting a small market niche.
Cars Looking at its current lineup, it’s hard to believe Kia was once a byword for cheapness. In fact, the only nameplate remaining from those bad old days is the Kia Sportage. Since its launch in 1993, the Sportage has evolved from a curiosity to a true mainstream crossover SUV. But it was still missing something.
Cars Jeep is embracing electrification but, like a 4x4 crawling over a pile of rocks, it’s doing so slowly and methodically.
The first all-electric Jeep is scheduled to launch in 2023, but in the meantime, we’re getting plug-in hybrids. With gasoline engines to curb range anxiety and traditional mechanical four-wheel drive systems to preserve off-road capability, Jeep’s 4xe (pronounced “four-by-e”) plug-in hybrids bridge the gap between two eras.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
