Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Cars Reviews 2021 Polestar 2 first drive review: More than a Swedish Tesla By Stephen Edelstein Close $61,200.00 Well-designed interior Android operating system Well-tuned brakes Good ride/handling balance A car that can replace an SUV Second-place range Lifeless steering If you want to launch a new type of car, it helps to launch a new brand with it. That’s what Volvo believes, at least.
Design and interior Tech, infotainment, and driver assist Driving experience Electric range, charging, and safety How DT would configure this car Our take Should you get one? The Swedish automaker is going all-in on electric cars and hybrids , but didn’t think its own brand name would convey that change. So in 2015, Volvo recycled the name of a tuning company to create Polestar as a showcase for green tech. The brand launched with the Polestar 1 plug-in hybrid coupe, and is following that up with the Polestar 2 electric car. As a high-end electric vehicle (EV), the Polestar 2 seems like a Tesla Model 3 rival, but Polestar claims that’s not the case.
Tesla launches more affordable Model S and Model X, but there’s a catch Mercedes-AMG EQE SUV first drive review: a better electric SUV 2024 Mercedes-AMG S63 E Performance first drive review: high-performance plug-in “We’re not out to chase Tesla,” Polestar USA. boss Gregor Hembrough told Digital Trends. “We’re building an EV that’s an alternative in the marketplace.” Polestar may have trouble convincing customers of that. In size and purpose, the Polestar 2 closely resembles the Model 3. Polestar will initially sell its car only in a fully loaded, dual-motor all-wheel drive Launch Edition configuration with a $61,200 base price — about $5,000 more than the top Model 3 Performance. However, unlike new Tesla purchases, Polestar vehicles still qualify for the full $7,500 EV tax credit (as well as some state and local incentives). Less-expensive variants are also on the way, Polestar has said.
Design and interior The Polestar 2 inherits design cues from parent Volvo, and it rides on the Compact Modular Architecture (CMA) platform used by the Volvo XC40.
 The exterior is a carbon copy of the Volvo Concept 40.2 concept car of 2016. That means the Polestar 2 looks like a sedan, but has a rear hatch instead of a trunk. It also has a more SUV-like ride height, although it doesn’t feel that way from the inside.
From behind the wheel, the Polestar 2 feels more like a car than an SUV, largely because of the way Polestar designed its battery pack. While many electric cars have a long, flat battery pack mounted under the floor, Polestar opted to stack the individual modules, putting some under the floor, others under the rear seat, and still more modules down the centerline of the car. This gives the Polestar 2 a lower floor than the Model 3, making it feel more like you’re sitting in the car rather than on it. The car also has a pronounced central tunnel dividing the cabin, similar to the transmission tunnels in gasoline cars.
Like Tesla, Polestar went for a minimalist interior design, but with some more traditional elements. Instead of just dropping a touchscreen in the middle of the dashboard and calling it a day, Polestar kept the gauge cluster and shifter, giving the interior a more conventional layout.
The Polestar 2 also comes standard with a vegan interior, including carpets made from recycled plastic, recycled wood trim, and upholstery made from a fabric called WeaveTex. A Nappa leather interior is optional, but the vegan version was nicely executed, and fits better with this electric car’s mission of sustainability. It’s just too bad that Polestar threw in cheap-looking gloss black plastic on surfaces that will likely be touched frequently — leading to smudges and scratches.
Like Tesla, Polestar went for a minimalist interior design, but with some more traditional elements.
The Polestar 2 is about 5 inches wider and 2 inches taller than a Model 3, but the Tesla is 3.5 inches longer. The Model 3 also has a longer wheelbase than the Polestar 2, which translates into more legroom. However, the Polestar’s taller roof creates more headroom, and its hatchback configuration gives it an advantage in cargo space. With the rear seats in place, the Polestar 2 has a manufacturer-estimated 15.5 cubic feet of cargo room, compared to 15.0 for the Model 3. With the rear seats folded, the Polestar 2 can hold 38.7 cubic feet of stuff.
Tech, infotainment, and driver assist The Polestar 2 is the first production car to get Google’s Android Automotive OS , which bakes Google apps into the infotainment system. Instead of generic voice controls and navigation, you get Google Assistant and Google Maps. The infotainment system can also sync with your personal Google account for added customization.
The Polestar 2 also gets Apple CarPlay and Android Auto , along with basic Bluetooth connectivity, as standard equipment. Non-Android users can still get the same functionality they would with projection apps on other infotainment systems, including the ability to make calls and send text messages. Polestar only anticipates connectivity for “select” Apple apps, however, and CarPlay won’t be available at launch. Polestar plans to add it via an over-the-air update in 2021.
If your personal preferences lean toward Android, this is a great setup. Graphics displayed on the 11.1-inch central touchscreen and 12.3-inch digital instrument cluster were excellent, particularly for maps. The touchscreen was also very responsive. If Google apps aren’t your favorite, however, there isn’t as much of a benefit to this system.
If your personal preferences lean toward Android, this is a great setup.
Polestar parent Volvo is synonymous with safety, so it’s no surprise that the Polestar 2 gets plenty of driver aids. Standard features include blind spot monitoring, forward collision warning, lane keep assist, traffic sign recognition, autonomous emergency braking, and Volvo’s Pilot Assist, which combines adaptive cruise control with limited steering inputs for lane centering. Polestar said its version of Pilot Assist will use cloud connectivity to detect road obstacles in real time, and will be able to improve through over-the-air updates. However, Pilot Assist can’t execute automated lane changes, like Tesla Autopilot.
The Polestar 2 will also get a Digital Key that lets drivers use smartphones to unlock and drive the car, as well as grant access to other users. Tesla is the only other automaker to offer this functionality on an electric car so far, although Hyundai and Lincoln have similar features for gasoline vehicles. Digital Key won’t be available at launch; it will be added later via an over-the-air update.
Driving experience At launch, the Polestar 2 will be sold exclusively with a dual-motor all-wheel drive system. Combined output from the two motors is 408 horsepower and 487 pound-feet of torque, which will get the car from zero to 60 mph in 4.4 seconds, according to Polestar. That’s the same as a Tesla Model 3 Long Range, but the Model 3 Performance does zero to 60 mph in just 3.2 seconds, according to Tesla.
Our test car also had the optional Performance Pack, which adds 20-inch forged alloy wheels, Brembo brakes (with calipers designed specifically for Polestar to reduce aerodynamic drag), and adjustable Öhlins dampers. These upgrades made a big difference on the road, providing the perfect complement to the electric powertrain’s punchy acceleration.
The adjustable dampers kept the driver’s spine intact while traversing broken New York City pavement.
Even on a fairly firm setting (one of 22 that need to be manually changed), the adjustable dampers kept the driver’s spine intact while traversing broken New York City pavement. Once free of city traffic, they gave the Polestar 2 a tight, confidence-inspiring feel in corners. Regenerative braking allows for one-pedal driving on its most aggressive setting, but the left pedal still has a predictable, linear response should you need to use it. The weak point was the steering, which didn’t feel as dialed in as the other components. The Polestar 2 might be a very nimble car, but it’s impossible to tell from the vague response of the wheel.
The U.S.-spec Polestar 2 is also rated to tow up to 2,000 pounds. That’s lower than the 3,300 pounds Polestar previously quoted in the European market, but still better than the Model 3. The Tesla doesn’t have an official tow rating in the U.S., although in Europe it’s rated to tow up to 2,000 pounds.
Electric range, charging, and safety The Polestar 2 gets a 78-kilowatt-hour battery pack, but only 75 kWh is usable. Official range figures aren’t available yet, but Polestar expects more than 200 miles based on Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) testing. In a third-party test commissioned by Polestar, the car achieved 205 miles of range on a closed course in hot weather. That means the EPA-rated range will likely be higher, but likely not enough to match the Tesla Model 3 Long Range’s 322-mile maximum.
Charging takes 11 hours from an 11-kilowatt home wall box charging station or, if you’re really desperate, 22 hours from a standard 120-volt household outlet. DC fast charging at up to 150 kilowatts can provide an 80% charge in 40 minutes.
Safety ratings from the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety ( IIHS ) and National Highway Traffic Safety Administration ( NHTSA ) aren’t available yet, but Polestar expects its first EV to perform well in crash tests. The car sports special crash structures designed to protect the battery pack in the event of a crash and to account for the lack of an engine in occupant crash protection.
Polestar offers a four-year, 50,000-mile vehicle warranty and eight-year, 100,000-mile battery warranty. Tesla offers the same vehicle warranty term, and the same battery warranty term on lower-level versions of the Model 3. The Model 3 Long Range and Performance models get an eight-year, 120,000-mile battery warranty.
How DT would configure this car Configuring a Polestar 2 is simple, because the only options are the Performance Pack ($5,000), Nappa leather upholstery ($4,000), 20-inch wheels ($1,200), and special paint colors ($1,200). The Performance Pack’s Brembo brakes and Öhlins dampers are worth the extra money, but the leather upholstery seems unnecessary. The standard interior is already pretty nice, and gives the car even more green credibility.
Our take Upon closer inspection, the Polestar 2 really isn’t like the Tesla Model 3.
 It can’t match the Tesla on range or performance and, despite its reputation for safety innovation, Polestar parent Volvo still doesn’t have an answer to Tesla Autopilot. The specs don’t tell the whole story, however.
From its frowning face to its touchscreen-centric interior, the Model 3 asks buyers to throw away everything they know about driving. It’s a futuristic car that never lets you forget that fact. Instead of anticipating the driver’s needs, the Model 3 expects the driver to follow its lead. The Polestar 2 does things differently.
Polestar’s first electric car feels like its t10th. From the interior layout to the suspension tuning, every detail feels well-thought-out, and born of the experience of an established automaker, rather than a newcomer. The market’s demand for something new may have led to the creation of Polestar, but it’s Volvo’s experience that makes this car so good.
The Polestar 2 takes everything that’s good about electric cars and presents it in a familiar package. It’s an approach that could probably win a lot of converts as electric cars go from being a curiosity to a commodity. It’s too bad Polestar doesn’t plan to chase Tesla’s sales volumes, at least not right away. For now, the brand is targeting annual numbers in the “tens of thousands,” rather than the hundreds of thousands of cars Tesla currently builds annually, U.S. boss Gregor Hembrough told Digital Trends.
Should you get one? Yes. Between the Polestar 1 and Polestar 2, Volvo’s new brand is off to a great start.
Editors' Recommendations The Lucid Gravity has more range than any other electric SUV Tesla shows off first Cybertruck after two years of delays Tesla Cybertruck: rumored price, release date, specs and more Mercedes-Benz EQE SUV first drive review: ’90s look, cutting-edge tech Hyundai Ioniq 6 first drive review: welcome to the future Car Reviews Product Reviews Volvo Cars Volvo off-shoot Polestar is looking forward to an eventful year. It will begin production of the 3, its first crossover, and it will release a comprehensively updated version of the 2 sedan that's sportier than the outgoing model, more road trip-friendly, and better equipped.
The biggest visual difference between the original 2 and the new-look car due out in 2023 as a 2024 model is found on the front end. The electric sedan swaps its grille for what Polestar designers call a SmartZone that frames the front-facing camera and covers the mid-range radar used to power some of the electronic driving aids. While the shift isn't significant, it's symbolic. The grille created a visual link between the 2 and the 1, Polestar's now-retired first model; the SmartZone brings the sedan in line with the sleek-looking 3 unveiled in late 2022.
Cars Kia is turning things up a notch. The EV6 is consistently lauded as one of the best EVs out there right now in its price range, sitting alongside its sister car, the Hyundai Ioniq 5, and cars like the Tesla Model 3. As an electric car, even the base model EV6 has some serious kick to it -- but last year, the Kia EV6 GT-Line brought things to the next level. Now, Kia is making the car even more impressive, once again, with the Kia EV6 GT.
The EV6 GT is designed to sit at the top of the EV6 lineup, with the best performance and the most impressive features. And it makes sense why Kia would be in this position. Plenty of carmakers are still unveiling their first-generation electric cars, but Kia has been working at them for years, through cars like the Soul and the Niro EV. That's not to mention the first few generations of EV6.
Cars If you want to see just how quickly the electric car landscape has changed over the past few years, take a look at the redesigned 2023 Kia Niro EV.
When the first-generation Niro EV launched for the 2019 model year (following hybrid and plug-in hybrid Niro variants), it was a pretty big deal. The Niro was Kia’s first EV not based on a conventional gasoline model, and the first intended for high sales volumes.
The second-generation 2023 Niro EV boasts more tech, more space, and more extroverted styling than its predecessor, but it’s still very much in the shadow of the Kia EV6. Once Kia’s main EV attraction, the Niro is being refocused as a more affordable option to take on the likes of the Chevrolet Bolt EV/Bolt EUV, Volkswagen ID.4, and Nissan Leaf.
Kia plans to offer the Niro EV in trim levels named Wind and Wave, but hasn’t released pricing for either. Note that the previous-generation 2022 Niro EV started at $41,245; the new model could see a price increase because of its updates. And because it’s assembled in South Korea, the 2023 Niro EV won’t qualify for the revamped federal EV tax credit, Kia has confirmed.
Design and interior Like the previous generation, the Niro is part of a three-pronged lineup that also includes the Niro Hybrid and Niro PHEV (plug-in hybrid models). All three maintain the tall-wagon shape of the first-generation Niro, but with much bolder styling.
Where the previous Niro was a wishy-washy mix of car and SUV styling elements, the 2023 Niro is the result of the same fearless design department that produced the EV6 and the 2023 Kia Sportage. The traditional automotive “face” was rearranged with a visor-like element, protruding grille, and hexagonal lighting elements. Contrasting trim panels break up the profile view, and conceal “Air Blade” elements around the taillights that, Kia claims, reduce aerodynamic drag.
Kia used sustainable materials to further decrease the Niro EV’s environmental impact.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
