Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Cars Hyundai Ioniq 5 first drive review: Retro modern By Stephen Edelstein Close Stephen Edelstein / Digital Trends The 2022 Hyundai Ioniq 5, the automaker’s newest electric car, proves that EVs are about more than a powertrain.
Design and interior Tech, infotainment, and driver assist Driving experience Range, charging, and safety How DT would configure this car Our take Should you get one? Hyundai has launched electric cars before, but they were derived from gasoline or hybrid models. The Ioniq 5 is a clean-sheet design, debuting Hyundai’s EV-specific Electric-Global Modular Platform (E-GMP) and taking advantage of the design freedom that entails. That makes the Ioniq 5 a stronger competitor to the Volkswagen ID.4, Ford Mustang Mach-E, and Tesla Model Y.
Hyundai isn’t stopping there. The Ioniq 5 is the first in a series of Ioniq models sharing the E-GMP platform and general design theme. An Ioniq 6 sedan and Ioniq 7 SUV are on the way as well. Note that the Ioniq sub-brand is separate from the current Hyundai Ioniq hatchback, an unrelated model sold with hybrid, plug-in hybrid, and all-electric powertrains.
Lanzador concept previews Lamborghini’s first EV Tesla shows off first Cybertruck after two years of delays Mercedes-AMG EQE SUV first drive review: a better electric SUV On sale in later December, the Ioniq 5 launches in SE, SEL, and Limited trim levels with standard rear-wheel drive or available all-wheel drive. Launch pricing starts at $44,875 for a rear-wheel-drive SE model, while our range-topping all-wheel-drive Limited test car had a $55,725 base price (all prices include a mandatory $1,225 destination charge). An SE Standard Range model with a smaller battery pack will arrive in spring 2022, starting at $40,925.
The Ioniq 5 qualifies for the $7,500 federal EV tax credit and may qualify for additional state or local incentives depending on where you live.
Stephen Edelstein / Digital Trends Design and interior The Ioniq 5 blends retro and modern styling elements for a design that’s much more distinctive than the generic futurism of many other EVs. Two-tone bodywork and sharp lines, particularly a beak-like convergence at the front bumper, give the Ioniq 5 a unique look. Headlights and taillights with pixel-like elements add a retro touch, while available aero-design 20-inch wheels and flush door handles help reduce aerodynamic drag, Hyundai says. Where many EVs rely on one or two design features to stand out, these many unique elements combine to make the Ioniq 5 look like nothing else on the road.
Like the exterior, the interior is refreshingly different. Instead of covering things up with extra trim, Hyundai kept things simple. The horizontal screen sits proud of the dashboard, and the door panels curve outward, creating more elbow room. The flat floor creates a greater feeling of space as well, and made room for a number of handy storage nooks. Hyundai even included a reclining driver’s seat that lifts your legs, so you can take a nap while you charge.
Hyundai calls the Ioniq 5 a crossover, but that’s just marketing spin. The crossover term implies the taller ride height and driving position of an SUV, but on both counts, the Ioniq 5 seemed about the same as an ordinary car. The Ioniq 5’s styling is also based on the Hyundai 45 concept , which in turn was inspired by the 1975 Hyundai Pony. The first car designed in-house by Hyundai, the Pony was a hatchback that predated the crossover trend by decades. Still, crossovers are the hottest vehicle segment in the United States right now, so Hyundai’s just doing what it needs to do to move more metal.
The Ioniq 5 looks like nothing else on the road.
An unusual result of the Ioniq 5’s E-GMP platform is a super-long wheelbase. The Ioniq 5 is about the size of a normal compact car, but Hyundai says the 118.1-inch wheelbase is longer than its Palisade three-row SUVs. We’d normally expect that to pay dividends in passenger space, but the Ioniq 5 doesn’t have a clear advantage over its rivals.
The Hyundai has more first-row and second-row legroom than the VW ID.4, but the Ford Mustang Mach-E offers more room in front, while the Tesla Model Y offers more room in both rows. Headroom is back of the pack in most cases, although second-row occupants get a little more than in the VW. The Hyundai’s main advantage is shoulder room, so occupants get a greater sense of space, at least.
At 27.2 cubic feet of cargo space with the rear seats in place, the Ioniq 5 trails the Mach-E and ID.4 (Tesla doesn’t publish a comparable figure for the Model Y).
Tech, infotainment, and driver assist The standard infotainment system includes a pair of 12.3-inch screens placed side by side. One serves as the instrument cluster, the other as the main touchscreen. Wired Apple CarPlay and Android Auto are standard, along with Amazon Alexa and Google Assistant compatibility. A revamped Hyundai Blue Link app also allows drivers to remotely schedule charging, check range, or preset the climate control. Those features are free through the first three years of ownership.
As with other recent Hyundai models, we found the infotainment system easy to use and were impressed by the touchscreen’s menu layout and graphics. An added bonus here is the Mercedes-like augmented reality head-up display that projects navigation arrows onto the windshield, ensuring you don’t miss any turns.
The Ioniq 5 also gets the Digital Key feature that debuted on the Hyundai Sonata sedan, which allows drivers to use a smartphone instead of a key fob. While some automakers’ remote apps can lock or unlock doors, Digital Key lets you start the car and drive away without a fob. Ford is offering a similar feature on the Mustang Mach-E, however.
As with other recent Hyundai models, we found the infotainment system easy to use.
The list of standard driver-assist features includes Forward Collision Avoidance Assist, which essentially combines forward-collision warning and front automatic emergency braking. The basic version can detect oncoming vehicles, pedestrians, and cyclists and apply the brakes if necessary, according to Hyundai. SEL and Limited models get a more advanced version that can detect vehicles approaching from the side at intersections and in adjacent lanes, along with evasive steering assist.
Also standard is a Blind-Spot Collision Avoidance Assist system that combines blind-spot monitoring with an automatic braking feature designed to pull the car back into its lane if another vehicle is detected. Limited models also get Hyundai’s nifty Blind-Spot View Monitor, which shows a camera view of the blind spot in the instrument cluster when turn signals are activated. Hyundai’s Remote Smart Parking Assist is available as well.
Highway Driving Assist, which combines adaptive cruise control with automated lane centering, is standard on the base SE trim level. The SEL and Limited get Highway Driving Assist 2, which adds a lane-change assist feature, a lane-placement feature that can move the car within its lane to avoid obstacles like a vehicle parked on the shoulder, and a machine-learning function that can tailor the system to the owner’s driving style, Hyundai said.
We didn’t spend enough time with the car to test that out, and we weren’t impressed with the system overall. The lane-centering feature brought us unnervingly close to other cars, and this isn’t a hands-off system like the Chevrolet Bolt EUV’s Super Cruise, or the BlueCruise system that’s being added to the Ford Mustang Mach-E via software update.
Driving experience At launch, the Ioniq 5 gets a 77.4-kilowatt-hour lithium-ion battery pack and single-motor rear-wheel drive or dual-motor all-wheel-drive powertrains. Rear-wheel-drive models have 225 horsepower and 258 pound-feet of torque while all-wheel-drive models produce 320 hp and 446 lb-ft of torque. The aforementioned SE Standard Range model will have a 58-kWh pack and 168 hp single-motor rear-wheel-drive powertrain when it joins the lineup in spring 2022.
Hyundai says our all-wheel-drive test car will do zero to 60 mph in 5.1 seconds. That looks pretty good on paper, and it’s 0.3 seconds quicker than an all-wheel-drive VW ID.4 , but it’s not enough to really stand out. Drivers coming from gasoline cars will be in for a treat, but those cross-shopping the Ioniq 5 with other EVs will be used to the punchy acceleration offered by electric powertrains’ instant torque delivery.
Nothing about the way the Ioniq 5 drove really stood out.
The rest of the driving experience followed that pattern. The Ioniq 5 was reasonably quiet and comfortable and didn’t embarrass itself in the corners, but nothing about the way it drove really stood out. This Hyundai lacked the VW ID.4’s feeling of solidity, the sportiness of the Ford Mustang Mach-E, and the refinement of the Volvo XC40 Recharge our Ioniq 5 Limited test car nearly matched in price.
A Hyundai Kona Electric we drove recently seemed incapable of one-pedal driving, but Hyundai has addressed that with the Ioniq 5’s i-Pedal system. The level of regeneration was high enough that we avoided using the brake pedal most of the time. It can even bring the car to a full stop, but not in a short enough distance for everyday use, in our experience.
Range, charging, and safety The Ioniq 5 gets an EPA-rated 303 miles of range with rear-wheel drive and the larger 77.4-kWh battery pack, with efficiency ratings of 114 MPGe combined (132 MPGe city, 98 MPGe highway). The all-wheel drive version is rated at 256 miles of range and 98 MPGe combined (110 MPGe city, 87 MPGe highway). With its smaller 58-kWh battery pack, the rear-wheel drive SE Standard Range is rated at 220 miles of range and 110 MPGe combined (127 MPGe city, 94 MPGe highway).
Hyundai claims the Ioniq 5’s main competitive advantage will be charging. The Ioniq 5 has an 800-volt charging architecture that allows for DC fast charging from 10% to 80% charge in 18 minutes, according to Hyundai. However, that’s only doable at stations that can charge at 250 kilowatts or more. Those are fairly rare, but at the more common 150-kW stations, Hyundai says the Ioniq 5 can charge from 10% to 80% in a still-respectable 25 minutes. Hyundai is also including two years of unlimited free 30-minute charging sessions on the Electrify America network.
With the 240-volt Level 2 AC charging stations typically used for home charging, Hyundai says a 10% to 100% charge will take six hours and 43 minutes. The Ioniq 5 also has what Hyundai calls vehicle-to-load, allowing the car to power electronics, or even charge other EVs.
Crash-test ratings from the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety (IIHS) and National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) weren’t available at the time of publication. That’s not unusual for new models.
The Ioniq 5 gets the same five-year, 60,000-mile, new vehicle warranty and 10-year, 100,000-mile, powertrain warranty as gasoline Hyundai models, which are among the best warranty terms in the business. Hyundai EVs also get a 10-year, 100,000-mile, battery warranty, which is competitive with other EV battery warranties.
How DT would configure this car Maximizing tech means going for the top Limited trim level. The Ioniq 5 Limited gets a head-up display, Bose audio system, surround-view and Blind-Spot View Monitor camera systems, and Remote Smart Parking Assist. It also gets tech features from the lower trim levels, including Highway Driving Assist 2 and the dual 12.3-inch screens.
The Limited model is available with both rear-wheel drive and all-wheel drive. While it sacrifices power, we’d be inclined to go with rear-wheel drive because it provides 303 miles of range and saves about $4,000 MSRP over a comparable all-wheel-drive model. However, drivers in snowier climates might still want to consider the dual-motor all-wheel-drive powertrain.
Our take The 2022 Hyundai Ioniq 5 is nice to drive and fields plenty of tech but the EV market is getting more competitive.
With a $41,190 base price and 260-mile range, the base rear-wheel-drive Volkswagen ID.4 Pro undercuts the Ioniq 5 SE long-range model in price and will offer more range than the Ioniq 5 SE Standard Range when that model launches in spring 2022. The VW also drives a bit nicer than the Hyundai, in our opinion, but its touch-based controls are more difficult to use, and Hyundai offers more sophisticated driver-assist tech.
The Ford Mustang Mach-E brings sporty driving dynamics and a massive 15.5-inch touchscreen to the table. Buyers can also spec BlueCruise which, unlike Hyundai’s Highway Driving Assist 2, allows for hands-off driving in certain situations. However, Hyundai offers more range for your money.
The high-end Ioniq 5 Limited trim level is also priced close to premium-brand EVs like the Polestar 2 and Volvo XC40 Recharge , but the Hyundai’s slate of driver aids and its 800-volt charging hardware give it an advantage on value. A recent price increase means the Tesla Model Y now starts at about $60,000 — substantially more than anything else discussed here.
So while the Ioniq 5 doesn’t knock its rivals to the mat on range and price, it’s still competitive. It’s also worth considering Hyundai’s generous warranty terms and the 800-volt charging capability, although the latter is dependent on the proliferation of more-powerful DC fast-charging stations.
Should you get one? Yes. The Ioniq 5 is an excellent blend of style and tech.
Editors' Recommendations The Hyundai Ioniq 5 N makes one of the coolest EVs ready for the track Lamborghini teases its first all-electric supercar ahead of Friday’s big reveal These new NASA EVs will drive astronauts part way to the moon (sort of) 2024 Mercedes-AMG S63 E Performance first drive review: high-performance plug-in 2024 BMW i5 unveiled as the first electric 5 Series Hyundai Cars Mercedes-Benz is one of the oldest automakers in existence, but it's been among the quickest to launch a lineup of electric cars. It may not have the freshness of a startup, but what it does have are actual cars to sell to customers.
The 2023 Mercedes-Benz EQE SUV is the middle child of Mercedes' electric SUV lineup, slotting between the entry-level EQB and the flagship EQS SUV, and targeting electric luxury SUVs like the Audi E-Tron, BMW iX, and Cadillac Lyriq. Like the EQS, the EQE SUV is based on an existing sedan, hence the "SUV" suffix. In a previous first drive, we found the EQE sedan to be a good balance between luxury and livability, giving the SUV version a lot to live up to.
Cars While some automakers are just beginning to get into electric cars, Hyundai's EVs have already taken several evolutionary steps. From the Ioniq Electric to the Kona Electric to the Ioniq 5, the South Korean brand's EVs have steadily become more sophisticated in tech and design. And Hyundai isn't stopping.
The 2023 Hyundai Ioniq 6 is a follow-up to the Ioniq 5, wrapping the earlier model's hardware in very different styling. With the Ioniq 5 and most other EVs from mainstream brands are marketed as crossover SUVs, this sedan doesn't have much direct competition. Hyundai set out to compete with the Tesla Model 3 and Polestar 2, which is reflected in its comparable pricing — between $42,715 for the base version and $57,425 for the most expensive model. But constantly fluctuating Tesla prices and build configurations mean that may not be the case for long.
Cars Hyundai is making exciting progress with its e-Corner technology that lets a driver “crab walk” out of a tight spot. Other maneuvers such as zero turns, pivot turns, and diagonal driving are also possible.
Hyundai has been working on the technology for at least five years, and previously showed it off in purpose-built vehicles that aren’t on the market.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
