Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Cars News 2024 Polestar 2 gets a major overhaul for the 2024 model year By Ronan Glon Close Volvo off-shoot Polestar is looking forward to an eventful year. It will begin production of the 3, its first crossover, and it will release a comprehensively updated version of the 2 sedan that’s sportier than the outgoing model, more road trip-friendly, and better equipped.
The biggest visual difference between the original 2 and the new-look car due out in 2023 as a 2024 model is found on the front end. The electric sedan swaps its grille for what Polestar designers call a SmartZone that frames the front-facing camera and covers the mid-range radar used to power some of the electronic driving aids. While the shift isn’t significant, it’s symbolic. The grille created a visual link between the 2 and the 1 , Polestar’s now-retired first model; the SmartZone brings the sedan in line with the sleek-looking 3 unveiled in late 2022.
Bigger changes are found beneath the sheet metal. The entry-level version of the 2 is now rear-wheel-drive (it was front-wheel-drive through the 2023 model year) and powered by a new electric motor rated at 299 horsepower and 361 pound-feet of torque. For context, the outgoing 2 posted figures of 231 and 243, respectively. The EPA-estimated driving range increases from 265 to about 300 miles thanks to a new, 82-kilowatt-hour lithium-ion battery pack, and the system is compatible with 205-kilowatt fast charging. These changes increase the 2’s appeal.
Tesla launches more affordable Model S and Model X, but there’s a catch Ford EV drivers can use 12,000 Tesla Superchargers starting in 2024 Sporty Polestar 3 SUV is an EV guiding star Previous Next 1 7 2024 Polestar 2 Polestar 2024 Polestar 2 Polestar 2024 Polestar 2 Image used with permission by copyright holder 2024 Polestar 2 Image used with permission by copyright holder 2024 Polestar 2 Image used with permission by copyright holder 2024 Polestar 2 Image used with permission by copyright holder 2024 Polestar 2 Image used with permission by copyright holder The dual-motor, all-wheel-drive model remains available and positioned at the top of the range. Its output checks in at 421 horsepower and 546 pound-feet of torque (up from 408 and 467, respectively, before the update), though the optional Performance Package unlocks a 455-horsepower punch. Although the battery pack used is the same 78-kilowatt-hour unit fitted to the outgoing model, the driving range increases to approximately 270 miles because the powertrain automatically disconnects the front-mounted motor when it’s not needed to save energy.
All versions of the 2 regardless of driven wheels gain a standard wireless device charger for 2024. Additionally, the all-wheel-drive model receives a suite of electronic driving aids called Pilot Pack that includes a blind spot information system with steering support, cross-traffic alert with brake support, a rear collision warning mitigation system, a 360-degree camera, and Pilot Assist, among other features.
Motorists can reserve a 2024 Polestar 2 by visiting the company’s website. Pricing information hasn’t been announced yet.
Editors' Recommendations Volkswagen ID.4 vs Tesla Model Y Tesla shows off first Cybertruck after two years of delays 2024 BMW i5 unveiled as the first electric 5 Series 2024 Chevrolet Equinox EV aims for affordability with $30,000 base price Tesla’s electric cars get second price bump in a month Tech News Volvo Cars Tesla’s all-electric Cybertruck -- yes, the one with the unspeakably wacky design -- has suffered a production delay that means it won’t start shipping until 2022.
The original plan had been for large-scale production to begin by the end of this year, but a recent change to the Cybertruck’s listing on Tesla’s website, spotted by Electrek, reveals a new launch schedule.
Cars Volvo has joined the chorus of carmakers going all-in on electric cars. It announced plans to pivot towards an EV-only range by 2030, and it introduced a battery-powered crossover named C40 Recharge to drive the point home.
As its name implies, the C40 Recharge is related to the XC40 Recharge under the body. And, if you're familiar with the Swedish firm's naming system, you'll recognize right away that the C prefix has historically denoted coupes and convertibles, such as the C30 and the C40. The C40 is not a coupe in the traditional sense of the term because it has four doors, but it wears a fastback-like roofline that underlines the company's seldom-seen emotional side. While Volvo thrives on rationality, it developed the C40 as the kind of car you buy with your heart, not with your mind.
Cars Released in 2012, the Model S is the oldest member of the Tesla range. It's about to look a lot newer than its age suggests thanks to a much-needed update that brings a fully redesigned interior and a lot more power.
Not much has changed on the outside, and the sedan remains recognizable as a Model S. Look closely and you might notice stylists gave it a nip-and-tuck that brings a redesigned front bumper, small aerodynamic tweaks out back, and new wheels. Visually, it takes a well-trained eye to tell the latest evolution of the S apart from its predecessor.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
