Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Cars News Future Hyundai and Kia electric cars will be able to charge each other By Stephen Edelstein Close Hyundai and Kia have launched a handful of electric cars based on existing internal-combustion models, but now the two brands are taking things to the next level. The new Electric-Global Modular Platform (E-GMP) will be the basis for new vehicles that, unlike previous versions, will be designed from the ground up to be electric. Hyundai and Kia have hinted at E-GMP before, but have now provided concrete details ahead of the platform’s launch in 2021.
Like all modern vehicle platforms, E-GMP will be much more versatile than a basic chassis. It can be used for everything from sedans to SUVs, and from ordinary commuter cars to a high-performance model that can accelerate from zero to 62 mph in 3.5 seconds and reach a top speed of 160 mph, according to Hyundai.
Most of Hyundai and Kia’s current models are based on front-wheel drive platforms, but E-GMP is rear-wheel drive by default, with a single electric motor mounted on the rear axle. An all-wheel drive system, using a second motor for the front axle, will also be available. However, the system will be able to decouple the front motor when extra traction isn’t needed to boost efficiency, or to take advantage of the handling benefits of rear-wheel drive, according to Hyundai.
Amazon and Hyundai partner on online car sales, in-car services The Hyundai Ioniq 5 N makes one of the coolest EVs ready for the track What it means now that Kia and Hyundai have adopted Tesla’s charging standard Following in the tire tracks of Tesla, the battery pack is mounted under the floor, to maximize passenger space and lower the center of gravity. E-GMP uses a standardized battery module, making it easier to manufacture packs of different capacities depending on the vehicle. Hyundai quoted a maximum range of 310 miles, albeit based on the more lenient WLTP testing cycle used in Europe. An equivalent number from the Environmental Protection Agency testing procedure would likely be a bit lower.
E-GMP can also accommodate an 800-volt charging system, allowing for an 80% charge in 18 minutes, according to Hyundai. It’s also capable of bidirectional charging, allowing an electric car to supply emergency power during an outage, run electronics at a campsite or even, Hyundai said, charge another electric car. It’s the EV equivalent of letting someone siphon a bit of gas from your tank.
The first production vehicle based on E-GMP will be the Ioniq 5, from Hyundai’s new EV-specific brand.
 Scheduled to launch in 2021, the Ioniq 5 is a small hatchback with retro styling inspired by the Hyundai 45 concept car. Kia will also unveil an E-GMP-based electric car in 2021, the first of seven new electric models it plans to launch by 2027. By 2025, Kia expects EVs to make up 20% of its global sales.
E-GMP will also be used for future electric cars for the Genesis luxury brand, as well as for an autonomous “robotaxi” designed for fleet use, Albert Biermann, head of Hyundai’s R&D division, told Digital Trends and other media during an online press conference. The company will also continue to sell models like the Hyundai Kona EV and Kia Niro EV, which are all-electric versions of gasoline or hybrid cars, Biermann said.
The economies of scale afforded by a single, Lego-like platform have proven attractive as automakers look to transition to EVs.
Volkswagen has its MEB platform, the Renault-Nissan-Mitsubishi Alliance has CMF-EV, and General Motors has its BEV3 architecture and Ultium battery system.
 Using the same building blocks for multiple vehicles keeps costs down — and should make it easier to launch large numbers of new EVs.
Editors' Recommendations Cadillac aims to balance its lineup with a small electric SUV The Lucid Gravity has more range than any other electric SUV Lucid joins other automakers by adopting Tesla charging plug The fastest electric cars, ranked by 0-60 mph acceleration Tesla Model 3 vs. Hyundai Ioniq 6: Which electric sedan is best? News Hyundai Tech News Cars While electric crossovers have become extremely popular, SUV-sized vehicles haven't been quite as common. Sure, Tesla calls the Model X an SUV, but many customers think of a specific shape and size of car when they think of an SUV -- and the Tesla Model X doesn't really fit that. Now, however, actual electric SUVs are finally coming out -- like the Rivian R1S and the Kia EV9.
The Rivian R1S may come from a lesser-known and smaller brand, but that certainly doesn't make it worse. In fact, it could make the company more nimble, and more innovative. But, there's still something to be said for the reliability of a well-known brand.
Cars Lamborghini will unveil a concept of its first fully electric supercar at Monterey Car Week in California on Friday.
The Italian automaker earlier this week released a teaser in the form of a silhouette image of the sleek-looking vehicle. In a comment accompanying the image, it told auto fans to expect something “new and truly thrilling.” Cars The massive Cadillac Escalade isn't exactly the picture of environmental friendliness, but General Motors is committed to expanding electrification to all corners of its product lineup — and that includes Cadillac's big, three-row full-size SUV.
The all-electric 2025 Cadillac Escalade IQ begins production next summer, applying the same formula from the Chevrolet Silverado EV and GMC Sierra EV pickup trucks to a full-size luxury SUV. The Escalade IQ uses the name of a current GM internal-combustion model, but is based on the automaker's Ultium EV component set, with an EV-specific body structure designed around a modular battery pack.
Texas-sized EV Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
