Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Cars News Ram EV concept previews truck brand’s electric future By Stephen Edelstein Close Electric pickup trucks are a hot trend in the auto industry, and Ram is late to the game. So the truck brand of massive automaker Stellantis needed to work hard to stand out.
Unmistakably electric A three-row pickup Truckload of tech Smarter charging Rivals Unveiled at CES 2023 , the Ram 1500 Revolution BEV concept shows what Ram has in mind for its first production electric truck, which is scheduled to arrive in 2024. This concept version combines some features we’ve already seen on other electric trucks with a few clever new ideas. So while it may be revolutionary for the Ram brand, which is new to EVs, it’s more evolutionary when compared to other electric pickups.
Unmistakably electric The Ram 1500 Revolution has the bulky appearance of a traditional truck, but with proportions that clearly mark it as an EV. With no need to accommodate an engine, the hood is much shorter. This allowed designers to make the cabin four inches longer than today’s internal-combustion Ram 1500 without shortening the bed, Ram claims. The grille is also smaller, although Ram compensated for this with a giant light-up logo and headlights with the same “tuning fork” elements as its current gasoline and diesel truck grilles.
Lanzador concept previews Lamborghini’s first EV Mercedes EV charging hubs are coming to North America by the end of the decade VW previews its next electric car in trippy camouflaged form The roofline is a bit lower and sleeker, which probably helps with aerodynamics, but like a traditional truck, the Revolution rolls on massive wheels and tires. The 35-inch tires are wrapped around 24-inch wheels with smooth covers and light-up elements. The charge port, meanwhile, is located in the driver’s side front fender. It makes a noise when the truck has started charging and blinks to show that charging is ongoing.
Like rival truck makers, Ram incorporated a frunk where the engine would normally be, plus the RamBox storage bins from its current trucks. Nearly every opening, including the tailgate, frunk, and charge port, is also power-operated.
Underpinning all of this power-operated convenience is the STLA Frame dedicated EV platform, one of four such platforms Stellantis plans to use for future EVs across its many brands, such as Chrysler and Jeep.
A three-row pickup Many automakers have touted the packaging flexibility of dedicated EV platforms, but Ram has taken things a bit further. The Revolution BEV concept features third-row jump seats which, if they carry over, would make the future electric Ram 1500 the only three-row pickup in production.
The jump seats are part of a mid-gate system similar to what General Motors included on the Chevrolet Silverado EV and GMC Sierra EV , which dates back to GM’s gasoline-powered Chevy Avalanche and Cadillac Escalade EXT trucks from the early 2000s. It’s a pass-through that lets longer items extend from the bed into the cabin, but in this case, drivers can fold down those third-row seats when it’s not in use.
A second pass-through allows items to extend all the way into the frunk, meaning the Revolution can accommodate objects up to 18 feet long with its tailgate closed.
Bollinger Motors previously showed something similar for its electric trucks, but their interiors were more Spartan than the Ram’s, and Bollinger is now focused solely on commercial sales.
Truckload of tech The current internal-combustion Ram 1500 is already available with a fairly large 12.0-inch touchscreen, but the Revolution puts that to shame with two big screens, which combine for 28.0 inches of space. Mounted one on top of the other, the lower screen can be removed, while the upper screen can slide around on a rail system.
Shadow Mode allows the truck to follow behind a person on foot like a giant dog. The voice-activated feature, which sounds a bit like Tesla Summon to us, is intended for situations where a vehicle needs to be moved a short distance so that the driver doesn’t have to keep getting in and out.
The concept truck also includes expected tech features like a virtual assistant, smart home connectivity, a trip planner, an augmented reality head-up display, and a 360-degree camera system. It also has multiple Cabin Modes, which adjust interior lighting, seats, suspension, and the opacity of the glass roof with Productivity, Social, Party, Relax, and user-generated settings.
Ram also claims a high enough level of automation for hands-off driving. The steering wheel retracts to provide additional space, but the wheel, seats, head-up display, and interior lights also “work together to provide next-level situational awareness to the driver” in case they need to take back control, per Ram.
Smarter charging The Revolution BEV concept can recover up to 100 miles of range in approximately 10 minutes using 800-volt, 350-kilowatt DC fast charging, Ram claims. Alongside the truck, Ram also unveiled a robotic wireless charger at CES that can automatically position itself under a vehicle and start charging. Ram wasn’t specific on production plans, however, and even if this device is sold to customers, it won’t offer the same power as DC fast charger.
The concept truck is propelled by two electric motors, one powering each axle. It also features air suspension and four-wheel steering with up to 15 degrees of articulation. Ram didn’t mention any trick features like the GMC Hummer EV’s Crab Mode , though.
Other specs weren’t revealed, but Ram boasts that its first production electric truck “will be the leader” in the key metrics of range, towing, payload, and charging time. That’s no small task.
Rivals By the time the production Ram 1500 EV previewed by this concept reaches showrooms, it will have to compete with electric trucks from Ram’s traditional rivals — Ford and General Motors. The Ford F-150 Lightning is already on sale and winning praise from critics and customers alike. GM is selling the 1,000-horsepower GMC Hummer EV and will soon follow that up with the GMC Sierra EV and Chevy Silverado EV , bringing electrification to its bestselling trucks.
Established automakers don’t have a monopoly on electric trucks. The Rivian R1T is perfect for outdoor adventurers, and Lordstown Motors recently launched its Endurance pickup , aimed at commercial fleets.
Ram can’t claim to be a leader in launching an electric truck. If anything, the big takeaway from the Ram 1500 Revolution BEV concept is that, with one of the last major holdouts getting onboard, electric trucks are here to stay. The revolution is happening.
Editors' Recommendations Volkswagen ID.GTI concept is another icon reimagined as an EV Audi ActiveSphere concept is part luxury sedan, part pickup truck Amazon Alexa aims to streamline the EV charging experience CES 2023-bound Ram Revolution concept previews electric pickup GMC poured all of its truck-making expertise into the Sierra EV pickup News CES 2023 Tech News Cars It may have the familiar three-pointed star on its hood, but the Mercedes-Benz Vision EQXX is like no other car Mercedes — or any other automaker — has ever built.
The Vision EQXX is an electric concept car that debuted at CES 2022 earlier this year. But where many concept cars can’t even move under their own power, the Vision EQXX spent the months after its Las Vegas reveal setting range records with a pair of epic trans-European road trips. Because while most concepts focus solely on design, the Vision EQXX pushes the envelope in all areas, from the shape of its body to the code in its software.
Cars Buick is going all-electric, and to preview what that future might look like, the General Motors division unveiled a sleek concept car borrowing a name from the past.
The Buick Wildcat EV concept starkly contrasts the automaker's current lineup of staid-looking SUVs. It's a luxury coupe, the kind of car Buick used to be known for. The low-mounted trapezoidal grille and turbine-like 18-inch wheels give the concept a slightly retro touch without drowning it in nostalgia. The concept also wears Buick's updated logo, the first change to the logo since 1990.
Cars Following the lead of parent Ford, Lincoln is getting serious about electric vehicles. The Lincoln Star concept previews a line of EVs the luxury brand plans to launch over the next few years.
As expected, the Star concept is an SUV. Lincoln has been an all-SUV brand since the Continental was discontinued after the 2020 model year. The exterior vaguely follows the profile of the current Lincoln Aviator, with the passenger compartment pushed far to the back. But in place of the Aviator's blunt front end, the Star has a streamlined prow that's probably more aerodynamic.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
