Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Tesla Supercharger Reset Screen in Tesla Tesla Phone Tesla Roadster Tesla Model X vs Tesla Model Y Tesla Optimus Tesla Destination Chargers Home Cars News Tesla shows off first Cybertruck after two years of delays By Trevor Mogg Close The first Cybertruck built at Tesla’s Giga Texas facility.
Tesla Tesla has shown off the first Cybertruck to roll off the production line at its new Gigafactory plant in Austin, Texas.
The automaker tweeted a photo of the all-electric pickup surrounded by the personnel who helped to build it.
Production of the Cybertruck has been delayed by around two years, so the sight of the fully built vehicle will give some welcome relief to early buyers who’ve been waiting patiently for their new vehicle.
Tesla says Cybertruck resellers could face harsh penalties Watch how Tesla’s Cybertruck handles a compound bow’s arrow Tesla’s Cybertruck finally gets a delivery date Tesla CEO Elon Musk recently promised a delivery event for the Cybertruck in the third quarter of this year, meaning it should take place by September. But the company has yet to offer any specific timings for the event.
While the delivery rollout will see the first Cybertrucks handed to their new owners, Tesla has previously said that volume production of the pickup won’t begin until 2024.
Tesla took the wraps off the Cybertruck in 2019 and targeted volume production by the end of 2021, but the date slipped several times.
Reports suggest Tesla has received more than 1 million preorders for the futuristic-looking Cybertruck, with interested customers paying a refundable $100 deposit.
Pricing information for Tesla’s new Cybertruck was removed from the automaker’s website toward the end of 2021, but at the time showed three variants costing between $39,900 and $69,900, dependent upon features such as the number of electric motors, towing capacity, and range. It’s widely expected that the final prices will be more expensive.
In April, Musk revealed that he’d visited the Cybertruck production line in Austin, tweeting, “Gonna be awesome … feels like the future.” But in 2021 he also admitted that the Cybertruck’s offbeat design meant that there was “some chance that Cybertruck will flop.” With the amount of time and investment that’s gone into the Cybertruck, those folks in the photo will surely be hoping it’s the former.
Editors' Recommendations Tesla U-turns on controversial rule for Cybertruck resellers Lucid joins other automakers by adopting Tesla charging plug Toyota joins ‘the Tesla plug’ club Volkswagen ID.4 vs Tesla Model Y The fastest electric cars, ranked by 0-60 mph acceleration Tech News Tesla Cars Aside from building electric cars, batteries, and solar panels, Tesla is also looking to build a Supercharger station with a difference.
The automaker has reportedly received planning permission to construct an all-night diner and drive-in movie theater in Los Angeles, Teslarati reported recently.
Cars EV manufacturers have long claimed that while electric cars often cost more upfront, they’ll save you money in the long run thanks to the lower cost of maintenance and the fact that electricity is cheaper than gas. While it's true that EVs are cheaper over the life of a car, a number of factors can affect how long it will take to recoup the upfront investment. You've probably considered the cost of charging at home and at public charging stations, but here's one factor catching EV buyers off guard: state registration fees.
Depending on where you live, you could pay hundreds of dollars more to register your car than drivers of gasoline cars do. Here's why that's happening, how much it's costing EV drivers, and whether you should be concerned.
Why are states imposing EV taxes? There are some good reasons why electric car registration fees are higher than those for gas cars. In most states, there’s a gas tax that’s usually at least 20 cents per gallon, and sometimes much more. California, for instance, charges 58 cents per gallon. That tax usually goes to things like road upkeep.
Cars Tesla chief Elon Musk has posted a photo of a “production candidate” Cybertruck, with the man himself behind the wheel of the new electric pickup.
“Just drove the production candidate Cybertruck at Tesla Giga Texas!” Musk said in the post on X, the platform formerly known as Twitter.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
