Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Cars Guides What is Android Auto? By Ronan Glon Close Google’s presence in the auto industry isn’t limited to developing autonomous technology. Millions of drivers power up its Android Auto software each day, either because they find their car’s infotainment system confusing or because they want a more smartphone-like interface.
What does Android Auto do? Which phones are compatible with Android Auto? Which cars are compatible with Android Auto? Like CarPlay , Apple’s rival system, Android Auto promises to make driving safer by reducing distractions. Whether it achieves this goal depends on who you ask; AAA found it helps drivers keep both eyes on the road, but a British study concluded that using it is more distracting than driving drunk. The truth likely lies somewhere in the middle, and common sense goes a long way when using in-car tech. Here’s what you need to know about Android Auto.
What does Android Auto do? Image used with permission by copyright holder Android Auto takes the features you love about your Android-powered smartphone and puts them directly in your car’s dashboard by overriding the native infotainment system. It displays information on a familiar, easy-to-use interface with cards you can swipe out of the way, legible menus, and large icons. It recently received a darker theme, an updated app launcher layout, and a more intuitive interface, so Android users will find it more familiar than ever.
Is your check engine light on? Here are 10 possible reasons why CES 2023: BMW is going all-in on Android Auto Open Source – here’s why BMW shipping cars without advertised Apple and Google features One of the best parts of Android Auto is the Google Maps-powered navigation system, which provides step-by-step directions and automatically finds an alternate route if it detects heavy traffic. It’s a real boon if your car doesn’t have navigation built in. The software ports over saved destinations from your phone, so you don’t have to manually type in the address to your house, your office, or your school. Finally, Android Auto gives motorists on-demand access to millions of songs and podcasts via a growing list of third-party apps, lets them surf the web, and allows them to stay connected by making phone calls and sending messages using Hangouts, WhatsApp, and other messaging platforms.
All of the aforementioned features respond to basic voice commands, too. You can say “OK, Google, play The Offspring,” or “OK, Google, what’s the capital of Australia?” You can even ask, “OK, Google, what is Android Auto?” With voice commands, you can reply to messages using speech-to-text technology. Don’t worry if your car isn’t equipped with voice-recognition technology, though, as Android Auto’s features are accessible using the touchscreen in your car, or the rotary dial if your car’s screen isn’t touch-sensitive. Keep in mind that your smartphone’s screen will be locked when Android Auto is active, though you can swipe to unlock it when it’s safe to do so.
Google Assistant integration leverages intelligent voice controls to help drivers keep their hands on the steering wheel. Fluid, precise two-way conversations are possible with the Assistant’s artificial intelligence-powered technology, and all your favorite apps come along for the ride as well.
Speaking of, Android Auto works with a host of third-party apps, including Waze, Pandora, iHeart Radio, Skype, WhatsApp, and Spotify. However, vehicle settings aren’t part of Android Auto, so the driver has to exit the application to adjust climate controls, browse radio stations, or select a different driving mode. That said, Google is currently working with carmakers like Polestar to create new, Android-based infotainment systems where all of these features will be accessible from one place.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Which phones are compatible with Android Auto? Now that you know what Android Auto is, we’ll address which devices and vehicles are compatible with it. Users whose phone is running Android OS versions 9 or below will need to download the free Android Auto application from the Google Play Store, but phones with Android 10 come with the functionality built in. Any phone running Android 5.0 and up that has an active data plan can power Android Auto, so you don’t need the latest device to use it.
Your phone must have a working USB port to connect to the car, though the newest Android phones from Samsung and others can support wireless Android Auto connections in a small but growing list of vehicles.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Which cars are compatible with Android Auto? Dozens of new cars are compatible with Android Auto.
 Keep in mind, however, that some manufacturers charge buyers extra for the feature, and others choose not to offer it on cheaper trim levels.
Lexus and its parent company Toyota resisted Android Auto for years due to safety and privacy concerns, but both have changed their minds.
 Several 2020 models — including the Tacoma , the Sequoia, the Tundra, the 4Runner, and the RX — are Android Auto compatible. We expect the list will continue to grow in the coming months and years. For now, BMW and Porsche are still Android-free, but Porsche told Digital Trends that could soon change.
When the software first became available in 2015, Chevrolet, Kia, and Hyundai became among the first businesses to build Android Auto-compatible cars. Since it took carmakers a significant amount of time to include Google in the cabin, it’s difficult to find a used car compatible with Google.
If those cars don’t quite fit your preferences or your budget, consider replacing your stereo system instead. Stereo manufacturers like Kenwood, Panasonic, Pioneer , and Sony produce aftermarket Android Auto-compatible head units.
Replacing your head unit is significantly cheaper than buying a new car, and it’s likely time you think about upgrading your system, anyway.
If you’re concerned that Android Auto won’t be compatible with your new stereo or car, just use your smartphone. Download Android Auto to your device to use as a standalone application. You can mount your smartphone to your dashboard or windshield and interact with the display the same as if you were using Android Auto on a car’s touchscreen. With this app, any driver could access Android Auto— even if you’re driving a 2019 BMW 3 Series, a classic Mini , a 1908 Ford Model T, or anything in between. Its powerful features, like Google Assistant and Google Maps navigation, will be at your fingertips.
Fans of Android and Google have found their answer to competitors through Android Auto. The app features a user-friendly and familiar operating system, which helps blend the lines between your smartphone and your vehicle. Android Auto is becoming available in more makes and models of cars, even though manufacturers were not quick to implement the new tech. Soon, it should be widely available or compatible in many vehicles.
Editors' Recommendations You’ll soon be able to watch YouTube videos in your Android Automotive car The best iPhone car mounts in 2023: top 10 best ones you can buy The best Android Auto apps for 2022: Music, Messaging, Navigation, and more Android Auto will now tell you if your USB cable is faulty Every car compatible with Apple CarPlay Android Android Google Cars Apple CarPlay and Android Auto are game-changing smartphone interfaces, and now wireless versions of both systems are rolling out in new cars. If you've got an older car with wired Android Auto only, though, Motorola is unveiling a way to cut the cord at CES 2022.
The Motorola MA1 is an adapter that can add wireless Android Auto to existing cars. Motorola said in a press release that it licenses the technology from Google. Since the company hasn't made a similar arrangement with Apple, CarPlay users are out of luck for now.
Mobile When you need to go somewhere, you naturally seek out the best route with the lightest traffic possible and fewest obstructions. Today's mapping and navigation apps are there for you. The two most popular apps for iOS and Android -- Google Maps and Waze -- deliver on that brief, presenting up-to-the-minute information, real-time turn-by-turn directions, and much more.
Google Maps and Waze are amongst the most popular navigation apps -- even among iPhone users -- because both are easy to use and consistently deliver accurate directions. So which one of these two Google-owned apps should you choose as your day-to-day driving navigation aid? Let's figure it out by looking at the two side-by-side, so you can see why of the two apps you prefer.
What is Waze? Audio / Video The Amazon Music app for iOS and Android now comes with an optional car mode that offers up a simplified interface that can automatically launch as soon as you connect to your car's Bluetooth system.
It looks like the ideal solution for those who don't have an infotainment system that's compatible with Apple CarPlay or Android Auto but want to stream music from Amazon Music while driving. According to an email from Amazon's PR partner, the new feature was designed "to limit extensive browsing while driving." Curiously, however, on the webpage that promotes car mode, Amazon warns its customers that they should not "interact with this app while operating your vehicle." Which naturally raises the question: Why give the app a car mode at all? Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
