Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Cars Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? What is Apple CarPlay? By Ronan Glon Close Cars are no longer bought just for their engines and how many they seat. Now, infotainment demands some room on every car buyer’s agenda. Apple CarPlay supplies users with everything on their phone now at the tips of their fingers in the dash.
What can Apple CarPlay do? Which phones are compatible with Apple CarPlay? Which cars are compatible with Apple CarPlay? What’s new with Apple CarPlay? With the ability to do everything your phone can, Apple CarPlay allows the driver to safely use apps, call friends and family, and integrate your favorite music, shows, and podcasts into your car. This is just the start of what your car is capable of with Apple CarPlay.
Not an iPhone user? Curious about what Android Auto is ? We have you covered.
What can Apple CarPlay do? Apple CarPlay — Apple calls it the ultimate co-pilot — performs many of the same functions as an iPhone. Motorists can use the software to get turn-by-turn directions, make calls, send and receive text messages, and listen to music or podcasts. The features are displayed on an easy-to-use interface with large icons that iPhone users will instantly recognize.
Previous Next 1 4 Image used with permission by copyright holder Image used with permission by copyright holder Image used with permission by copyright holder Image used with permission by copyright holder The bulk of CarPlay’s features can be accessed using Siri, Apple’s digital assistant.
 For example, the driver can say “call Alex,” “get directions to Cafe Rio,” or “play Chumbawamba” and Siri will obey. Motorists whose car isn’t equipped with voice-recognition technology can navigate the software using the touchscreen embedded in the dashboard, or the various knobs and buttons typically found on the steering wheel and center console. The iPhone’s screen is locked when CarPlay is active. The whole point of the software is to reduce distractions, after all.
Some third-party apps are compatible with — and optimized for — CarPlay. The best CarPlay apps for the iPhone includes iHeartRadio, Spotify, Pandora, Waze, WhatsApp, Amazon Music, CBS Radio, Tidal, and NPR One. Surprisingly, Apple CarPlay also supports some apps developed by rival Google. Google Play Music and Google Maps are both accessible via the software.
However, vehicle settings aren’t part of CarPlay, so the driver has to exit the application to adjust the climate control temperature, browse radio stations, or select a different driving mode. While Google has helped automakers — notably Volvo — develop infotainment systems, no one has inked a similar partnership with Apple — at least not yet.
Which phones are compatible with Apple CarPlay? Motorists who want Apple’s operating system in their dashboard need a compatible iPhone. Every iPhone since the 5 is CarPlay-friendly, though the device needs to run iOS 7.1 or newer for the app to work. You won’t be able to run CarPlay if you’re still using an iPhone with a 30-pin connector, or if you have an iPad.
Some cars support wireless CarPlay , too. In the ones that don’t, the iPhone needs to be physically connected to the car via a certified lightning-to-USB cable.
Which cars are compatible with Apple CarPlay? A wide variety of models from all over the automotive spectrum are compatible with Apple CarPlay. They range from relatively basic cars such as the Chevrolet Spark to high-end supercars like the Lamborghini Huracan Evo.
 Volvo, Honda, Chevrolet, BMW, Ford, and Porsche are among the dozens of brands that offer CarPlay compatibility. Note that some companies make customers pay extra for the tech, while others include it as standard equipment.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Toyota spent years resisting CarPlay — and Google’s rival software, Android Auto — due to safety and privacy concerns. The Japanese firm recently changed its mind and started offering CarPlay on some of its models, including the 2019 RAV4 , the 2019 Corolla Hatch , and the 2019 Avalon.
 Toyota-owned Lexus also started rolling out the software in some of its cars like the ES and the RX.
 It’s safe to bet others will follow; the floodgates of consumer demand have now opened.
All told, if you’re in the market for a new car, it’s not difficult to find one equipped with Apple CarPlay — there are hundreds if you live in North America, so we built a guide outlining all the cars that can currently be equipped with CarPlay.
 The story is different in Europe, where automakers have been slower to adopt the technology.
The list of used cars compatible with CarPlay is getting longer every year. However, if you’re driving a 1980s BMW or something even older , keep in mind that Alpine , Kenwood, Pioneer, and Sony all sell CarPlay-compatible aftermarket systems that bring cutting-edge smartphone integration to the world of winter beaters and classic cars.
What’s new with Apple CarPlay? Apple offers regular updates to its CarPlay software, adding new features, improving compatibility, and generally making life better for car owners. Here’s a look at recent changes to the infotainment software.
iOS 13: Coinciding with the launch of iOS 13 , Apple announced a number of updates for CarPlay at its annual Worldwide Developers Conference in San Jose, California, on June 3, 2019. They change the overall look of CarPlay , which has become an integral part of countless commutes since launching in 2014. Apple claims CarPlay is now available in 90% of new cars sold in the United States.
The updated CarPlay gets a new “Dashboard” view that lets users see multiple apps at once. So drivers can now have navigation and music functions open at the same time, on the same screen. That functionality is available on some automakers’ built-in infotainment systems , but this is the first time it’s been applied to CarPlay. The music display has also been redesigned to better emphasize album artwork as well, according to Apple.
Finally, CarPlay will overlay Siri’s voice recognition on top of other apps. Using Siri may help drivers achieve a more streamlined user experience — the current interface is a bit clunky. Right now, you have to open a dedicated screen to activate Siri, which doesn’t make the tool easy to use. Apple also recently added a calendar app to CarPlay. Now, Siri can work with third-party navigation and audio apps. Read all about the changes here.
iOS 12: In 2018, Apple announced an important update to their iPhone. Popular American apps, such as Google Maps and Waze, will now be offered as support for third-party navigation apps.
For the Apple users who prefer to navigate from their phones instead of using software like CarPlay, you may find this update fits your preferences. We can completely relate; Driving while also trying to navigate is anxiety-inducing. This update could help make your trips a little less bumpy by connecting popular third-party navigation apps like Waze and Google Maps. In addition to the update, Apple vows that its Carplay function will still be useful.
Speakers at the WWDC keynote were the first to share the update on the new third-party app support. It came as a surprise to many people, even though the announcement was just a footnote in this press release.
 Some believe this could just be the tip of something more for the company.
The new tech indicates that the company understands that its CarPlay service doesn’t hold up to popular navigation apps. Apple even shared a program called TryRating , which asked people to try out Apple Maps and suggest areas of improvement. The company then planned to take the feedback and track down some solutions for the app’s accuracy problems. Apple is still working to incorporate that feedback; You can read about the most recent and upcoming changes here.
Editors' Recommendations GM plans to phase out Apple CarPlay for EVs, go all-in on Android integration Apple’s rumored car could cost the same as a Tesla Model S Apple Car project continues to veer, report claims The next generation of Apple CarPlay will power your entire car, riding the trend of all-screen autos BMW shipping cars without advertised Apple and Google features Apple Mobile Apple Cars Apple CarPlay has spread across the automotive industry since it was released in 2014. It has gone through several evolutions, it's more convenient and more user-friendly than ever before, and the list of companies that make it available has grown significantly in the past few years. Even holdouts like Toyota have warmed up to CarPlay, a move largely spurred by overwhelming demand from customers.
The carmaking world is excited about Apple CarPlay and the advancement it gives to the driving experience. But before you jump in, make sure your car is compatible with the software before you purchase. We’ve compiled a comprehensive list of every vehicle on the market compatible with Apple CarPlay’s technology. Some companies will charge additional fees for installation or require you to purchase a different model or trim level if you want to add it on. If you’re an Android person, we’ve made a complete guide for Android Auto.
Cars Apple's on-again, off-again entry into the automotive industry is the subject of a great many rumors. Nothing is official yet, Cupertino is famously secretive, but a recent report suggests that the tech giant's Project Titan division is now hoping to master autonomous driving.
Citing anonymous insiders, Bloomberg reported that Apple has shifted its car-building project into high gear. We mean that metaphorically: the vehicle will allegedly be entirely electric, meaning it likely won't have gears to shift, and the development team hopes to integrate a high degree of automated technology into the platform. While numerous companies from the car and tech industries are rushing to make autonomous driving a reality, nearly all agree that a long list of legal and technological hurdles stand in the way of a widespread release.
Cars Rumors of an Apple Car continue to circulate, such is the apparent appeal of Apple making the jump from smartphones, tablets, and computers to electric cars. While Apple doesn't appear to be anywhere near close to launching its own car, Vanarama, a car-lease broker based in the U.K., has created an Apple Car rendering to add to the pile of speculation.
It's common for U.K. companies like this to distribute vehicle renderings for publicity, which is why a leasing firm is offering up Apple Car speculation. Vanarama claims this rendering is based on real Apple patents, although that still doesn't provide a clear picture of what a real Apple electric car would be like.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
