Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Cars Reviews 2021 Volvo XC40 Recharge first drive review: Refined EV subtlety By Stephen Edelstein Close Volvo has said it plans to move away from internal combustion, but right now it only sells one car without a gasoline engine: The 2021 Volvo XC40 Recharge.
Design and interior Tech, infotainment, and driver assist Driving experience Range, charging, and safety How DT would configure this car Our take Should you get one? The Recharge is an all-electric version of the Volvo XC40 crossover, which launched for the 2019 model year. While the gasoline XC40 competes with pint-sized utility vehicles from Audi, BMW, Mercedes-Benz, and Lexus, the Recharge’s size and premium branding make it a Tesla Model Y competitor. The Volvo may also be pitted against high-end versions of the Ford Mustang Mach-E , although price is really the only similarity between the two.
If you thought electric cars were just about saving the planet, note that the electric XC40 is substantially more powerful and quicker than the gasoline model. The Recharge also gets the latest Android Automotive OS infotainment system and an updated sensor suite for driver-assistance features — things you won’t get on the gasoline XC40 for the 2021 model year.
Mercedes-Benz EQE SUV first drive review: ’90s look, cutting-edge tech 2022 Volkswagen ID. Buzz first drive review: The iconic hippie hauler goes electric 2022 Rivian R1S first drive review: An EV SUV fit for an expedition or a drag race That tech comes at a price, though. The Recharge starts at $54,985—about $12,000 more than the top gasoline XC40 trim level. It’s also a bit higher than the base price of a Model Y but, unlike Tesla, Volvo still qualifies for the full $7,500 federal EV tax credit, which could erase that difference.
Design and interior The XC40 Recharge looks virtually identical to the gasoline XC40. The main giveaways are a blanked-off grille and subtle “Recharge” badging. Recharge models are also sold exclusively with a black roof and mirror caps, as well as model-specific wheel designs. Other than that, the Recharge is an electric car that really flies under the radar. Even the charge port is hidden where a fuel filler would normally be.
That means you get a fairly traditional looking SUV, with a tall, upright profile. It’s quite a contrast to the sleeker-looking Model Y and Mach-E, which blur the line between SUV and station wagon.
The Ford and Tesla offer greater utility, however. While Volvo claims the Recharge has the same amount of passenger and cargo space as the gasoline XC40, the Mach-E and Model Y still have larger cargo areas, as well as more legroom in both rows. The Tesla also offers more headroom than the Volvo, as well as a third row of seats. The Volvo does sport a frunk, but it’s tiny.
The Recharge is an electric car that really flies under the radar.
Volvo tried to make up for this with some clever interior design features. Designers moved some of the speakers for the Harman Kardon audio system from the doors to the dashboard, making room for larger in-door storage bins. The center console also sports a removable trash bin, and a bag hook is built into the glovebox door.
The interior is also a nice place to be. Volvo achieved the minimalist look Ford and Tesla seemed to be going for, in part because designers resisted the temptation to slap a massive touchscreen in the middle of the dashboard. Materials feel suitably premium, although Volvo doesn’t offer full leather upholstery. Instead, you get a mix of nappa leather and Nubuck textile.
Electric and gasoline XC40 models are based on Volvo’s Compact Modular Architecture (CMA) platform, which is shared with the Polestar 2 electric car from Volvo’s new spinoff brand. The Recharge shares a lot more than just a basic platform with Polestar 2, as you shall see.
Tech, infotainment, and driver assist The Recharge gets the Android Automotive OS infotainment system that debuted in the Polestar 2. Because it’s Android-based, the system has embedded Google apps. For example, Google Assistant and Google Maps are the default voice control and navigation apps, respectively. Android users can also sync their Google accounts to the car.
In the Recharge, the Android OS runs on a 9.0-inch central touchscreen and 12.3-inch digital instrument cluster.
Apple CarPlay , Android Auto , and Bluetooth are included as well, but the default interface is still all Google. While the infotainment system worked well, if you’re not a fan of Android smartphones, it probably won’t be your cup of tea.
The small cubby ahead of the shifter includes a USB-C port with wire guide, and can be equipped with a wireless charging pad. However, Volvo didn’t include USB ports for the second row.
The infotainment system worked well, if you’re not a fan of Android smartphones, it probably won’t be your cup of tea.
As is typical for Volvo, the Recharge gets a laundry list of standard driver-assist tech, including forward-collision warning, lane-departure warning , lane-keep assist, blind-spot monitoring with rear cross-traffic alert, forward and reverse automatic emergency braking, a driver-alertness monitor, traffic sign recognition, run-off-road mitigation, and oncoming lane mitigation. Pilot Assist, which combines adaptive cruise control and automated lane centering for highway driving, is a paid extra.
Like the related Polestar 2, the XC40 Recharge can also use cloud-based data to improve the performance of its driver-assist tech, according to Volvo. It gets the automaker’s latest sensor suite, which is scalable for more advanced future driver aids, according to Volvo. The Recharge also boasts over-the-air (OTA) update capability for all vehicle software, which should make adding those new features easier.
Instead of pressing a button to start the XC40 Recharge, you just shift out of park. If the key fob is in the car, it will start. Volvo hasn’t said whether the XC40 Recharge will get the Digital Key feature launched in the Polestar 2, which allows a smartphone to be used in place of a key fob.
Driving experience Also like the Polestar 2, the XC40 Recharge gets one electric motor per axle, enabling all-wheel drive. Output is about the same as the Polestar, at 402 horsepower and 486 pound-feet of torque.
While not intended as a performance car, the Recharge is one of the quickest cars Volvo makes. It will do zero to 60 mph in 4.7 seconds, 1.4 seconds quicker than the most powerful gasoline version of the XC40, according to the company. That’s also 0.1 second quicker than a Tesla Model Y Long Range or Ford Mustang Mach-E Premium, but Tesla and Ford also offer sportier versions that can reach 60 mph in just 3.5 seconds.
Aside from the robust acceleration, the rest of the XC40 Recharge driving experience is fairly relaxed. Like Volvo’s other recent models, the Recharge emphasizes smoothness and comfort over performance. We couldn’t take corners as aggressively in the XC40 as we could in the Mustang Mach-E , but the Volvo also lacked the Ford’s stiff ride. It’s a compromise many drivers will likely appreciate.
Unlike many electric cars, the XC40 Recharge is rated for towing. Its 2,000-pound towing capacity isn’t a lot, however. Tesla quotes a 3,500-pound towing capacity for the Model Y with the optional towing package.
Range, charging, and safety The XC40 Recharge is only offered with one battery-pack size: 78 kilowatt-hours, with 75 kilowatt-hours of usable capacity. That affords a 208-mile range, which is unimpressive when the Tesla Model Y offers a 326-mile range for similar money.
The electric Volvo is equipped for DC fast charging at up to 150 kilowatts, allowing for an 80% charge in 40 minutes. Charging from a 240-volt AC Level 2 source takes eight hours. Helpfully, Volvo includes a cable that can plug directly into the 240-volt outlets used by large appliances, so if you’ve got one of those in your garage, you won’t need to install a dedicated charging station.
Like Volvo’s other recent models, the Recharge emphasizes smoothness and comfort over performance.
Crash-test ratings from the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety ( IIHS ) and National Highway Traffic Safety Administration ( NHTSA ) aren’t available yet, and ratings from the gasoline XC40 don’t apply to the electric model. Volvo made some changes to ensure good crash performance, including a battery safety cage and a new front crash structure designed to account for the lack of an engine.
Volvo offers a four-year, 50,000-mile basic warranty, a four-year, 50,000-mile powertrain warranty, and an eight-year, 100,000-mile battery warranty. Ford offers a shorter basic warranty term, but a longer powertrain warranty term, with the same battery warranty. Tesla matches Volvo in all three categories, although some Tesla vehicles get a 120,000-mile battery warranty term.
How DT would configure this car Volvo makes things pretty simple, offering the XC40 Recharge in just a single trim level, with one powertrain and battery pack. On top of the standard features, we would add the $1,300 Advanced Package, which includes the Pilot Assist driver aid, a 360-degree camera system, wireless phone charging, and a 12-volt power outlet for the cargo area.
We would also add the electric heat pump ($350), which helps heat up the cabin more quickly on cold days, while also saving energy. We’d finish off with the Harman Kardon audio system ($800) and our test car’s Sage Green Metallic paint ($645), which is exclusive to the Recharge model. That brings the total price of our ideal XC40 Recharge to $58,080, before tax credits and other incentives.
Our take The XC40 Recharge may be the first mass-market electric car to wear the Volvo badge, but it’s really the Swedish automaker’s second all-electric model. The Polestar 2 may be sold under a different brand, but it shares a platform, powertrain, and infotainment system with the Recharge.
The Polestar 2 impressed us, and many of its good attributes carry over to the Recharge. The Volvo has the same overall feeling of quality refinement, but with a more laid-back character. It’s a good counterpoint to the sporty Polestar, and a solid “first” effort at an electric car, but it should have been more.
The Recharge falls short of the Tesla Model Y and Ford Mustang Mach-E on range and utility, but has a much nicer interior, and can keep up with comparably priced versions of the Tesla and Ford in a zero-to 60-mph sprint race. The Volvo also feels more like a normal car.
If all you want is basic zero-emission transportation, the Chevrolet Bolt EV, Hyundai Kona Electric, and Nissan Leaf offer more range at a much lower price. None of those are available with all-wheel drive, however. That’s also the case for the recently-launched Volkswagen ID.4 , although the VW will be available with all-wheel drive eventually.
The XC40 Recharge is still a good car, and worth considering for those willing to spend a little extra for more tech and better performance. That we consider the Volvo merely a solid contender, rather than an outright champion, shows how fast the EV competition is moving.
Should you get one? Yes. Volvo’s electric future looks bright.
Editors' Recommendations Mercedes-AMG EQE SUV first drive review: a better electric SUV 2023 Kia Niro EV first drive review: Practical doesn’t have to bore you to tears 2022 Mercedes-Benz EQB first drive review: An EV better than its gas sibling 2022 Volvo C40 Recharge first drive review: EV fashion statement 2022 Volvo V90 Cross Country first drive review: Android on board Volvo Cars A Mercedes-Benz electric sedan was inevitable. The meteoric success of the Tesla Model S, plus stricter European emissions standards gave Mercedes no choice but to meet Tesla on the EV battlefield. But a company that’s been building cars for over 100 years doesn’t rush into anything.
The 2022 Mercedes-Benz EQS sedan is our first glimpse at the automaker’s electric future. It heralds a range of electric cars for North America (including an EQS SUV) and showcases new technology, including the largest infotainment touchscreen ever fitted to a production car. Mercedes didn’t choose the name EQS by accident. “EQ” is the automaker’s electric sub-brand, while “S” signifies that this car is the electric equivalent to Mercedes’ traditional flagship, the S-Class sedan.
Cars When BMW paraded an orange, electric 1602 at the 1972 Munich Olympic Games, no one dared imagine the project would lead to this: The iX. Pronounced "eye-ex," rather than "ix" or the Roman numeral nine, the iX is more than another electric SUV. It's a segment-bending family-hauler that breaks new ground for BMW while showcasing the technology that will spread across the range in the coming years.
Previous Cars Many startup automakers have tried to repeat the success of Tesla, but the 2022 Rivian R1T is something different. This burly pickup truck aims to take EVs into the wilderness.
When it unveiled the R1T at the 2018 Los Angeles Auto Show, Rivian made some bold claims, boasting of Jeep-like off-road capability, sports car-like acceleration, and enough range to get you to the trail and back.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
