Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Cars Features Stripped down and tuned up, the race-ready RC F GT3 is a wolf in Lexus clothing By Stephen Edelstein Close The hills are alive with the sound of speed. It’s race day at Lime Rock Park, deep in rural Connecticut. The beastly roar of Corvette V8s mixes with the alien buzz of Ford’s twin-turbocharged V6 GTs , the whine of Porsche flat-sixes and high-revving Ferrari V8s thrown in for good measure. And in the middle of it all are two cars wearing Lexus badges.
Lexus has raced before, but most people still associate the Toyota luxury brand’s products more with country clubs and shopping malls than racetracks. So for 2017, Lexus enlisted Michigan-based 3GT Racing to put its cars up against the best the sports-car world has to offer.
Their weapon of choice is the RC F GT3 , a racing version of its RC F coupe.
 The “GT3” refers to FIA GT3, a class of race cars based on showroom models designed to run in race series across the globe. GT3 is supposed to emphasize commonality with production cars, but the demands of today’s racing environment mean they end up becoming something else entirely. It may have started out as a regular luxury car, but the RC F GT3 is a completely different animal.
From road car to race car Inside the 3GT Racing garage, mechanics are making final adjustments on the teams’ pair of RC F GT3s before that afternoon’s race. Wearing a mostly blue livery, the cars look like automotive versions of Sonic the Hedgehog. The bodywork bristles with appendages, from spoilers and ductwork, to massive fender flares that enclose upsized wheels and tires.
Each RC F GT3 starts out with a stock RC F bodyshell, but from there things get a little more interesting. Every visible panel is made from carbon fiber to keep weight down. Lexus also added a massive rear spoiler and rear diffuser, which produce aerodynamic downforce that helps stick the car to the track.
Despite looking like a boy racer’s dream, the aerodynamic aids on the RC F and other GT3 cars are actually pretty tame by racing standards. Engineers at the factory could have gone further, and teams aren’t allowed to make any changes of their own. The powers that be wanted to keep costs down, and to make the race cars look as much like their showroom-ready counterparts as possible.
Lacking luxury for ludicrous laps It may have started out as a regular luxury car, but the RC F GT3 is a completely different animal.
Affordability and road-car relevance are the whole reason for GT3-type cars. In the U.S., the RC F GT3 races in the IMSA WeatherTech SportsCar Championship , in the series’ GTD (GT Daytona) class. In a series in which up to three classes of cars run at once, the GTD cars are the slowest by design. Teams engage in a race within a race, aiming to beat the other GTD entrants rather than take the overall win. But while the cars are slower, they’re also much cheaper to run. On tires alone, GTD teams spend half as much per set as teams running the faster GTLM (GT Le Mans) cars, said 3GT Racing owner Paul Gentilozzi.
Peering into the cockpit, you won’t find any of the usual Lexus luxuries. Instead of leather and wood, the interior is almost entirely bare metal. The single seat (no passengers allowed) isn’t exactly the last word in comfort either. It’s meant to hold the driver in place during hard cornering, not to be an armchair.
The carbon fiber bodywork and crash diet produce results. The RC F GT3 weighs 2,866 pounds, or about 1,000 pounds less than a stock RC F. In the automotive world, lightness is next to godliness. Shedding weight improves every aspect of a car’s performance, from fuel consumption to handling to acceleration.
Helping the RC F GT3 in the latter area is a V8 engine punched out from the stock 5.0 liters of displacement to 5.4 liters. It produces over 500 horsepower, compared to 467 hp for the stock RC F. The stock eight-speed automatic transmission is also ditched in favor of a six-speed sequential racing gearbox. However, the driver changes gears using paddles taken from a production RC F.
Stephen Edelstein/Digital Trends Besides the paddle shifters, one thing the race car and the road car have in common is extensive use of electronics. Just like the driver of a stock RC F, the GT3 race car’s driver is confronted with an array of steering-wheel mounted controls. But instead of setting the cruise control or activating Bluetooth, they do things like select different software maps for the engine and transmission, and engage a limiter that keeps the driver from going too fast in the pits.
Computer brains to match engineering braun Each car has four CAN bus computer controllers, which send out data over two Ethernet connections, as well as an LTE telemetry system, said John Gentilozzi, 3GT Racing technical director and son of team owner Paul. The team can monitor virtually every aspect of the car from the pits meaning, among other things, that drivers have no excuse when they screw up.
In the automotive world, lightness is next to godliness.
“You can’t get away with anything,” said Scott Pruett , co-driver of the No. 14 Lexus. “In days gone by, if a driver missed a shift, you’d go ‘I didn’t miss a shift, I didn’t over-rev it.’” Silver-haired and square-jawed, Pruett, 57, looks like a race driver sent from central casting. He’s raced in a number of different series over a career spanning decades, and his resume includes five Rolex 24 at Daytona victories, and numerous other race wins and championships.
Pruett misses the “purity” of the days before electronic driver aids and data acquisition, when racing really was just about driver and machine. But he believes the encroachment of technology has been worthwhile because of how it benefits road cars. Technologies like computerized engine management were refined through racing, Pruett said, and that process has helped make modern road cars better.
“You drive down the road probably 70, 80 mph [in a modern car], and the car’s nice and quiet, you’re sitting there having a nice conversation, and you don’t even realize, because it’s so tight and refined,” Pruett said “A lot of that has been driven through racing.” But that technology transfer is very gradual, even when you’re an automaker racing the same car you sell. Mark Egger, Lexus motor sports manager, said there is a dialogue between the race program and engineers working on production cars. However, he noted that the pace of automotive development cycles—in which a given model is completely redesigned every four years or so—mean any changes take awhile to show up on cars people can actually buy.
For Lexus, just being seen on track is a big part of the appeal of racing. Lexus chose the GT3 category because it wanted to build a race car based on a production model, and the popularity of GT3 allows it enter cars in a number of different series around the world, should it choose to do so.
“IMSA has the most premiere tracks in the country,” Egger said of the WeatherTech SportsCar Championship. While racing has experienced a decline in popularity, and thus in value to advertisers, it’s still an important platform for automakers trying to emphasize performance, as Lexus is. IMSA’s races—which includes iconic events like the Rolex 24 at Daytona and 12 Hours of Sebring—is something car enthusiasts pay attention to, even if the general public doesn’t.
The more automakers are involved in racing, the better it generally is for the fans. Along with Lexus, the IMSA GTD lineup currently includes the Acura NSX , Audi R8, BMW M6, Ferrari 488, Lamborghini Huracán, Mercedes-AMG GT , and Porsche 911. Different versions of the Bimmer, Ferrari, and Porsche also race in the GTLM class, along with the Chevrolet Corvette and Ford GT.
That’s quite a lineup. At best, the average person might typically see one of these high-end cars parked outside the local Starbucks. But racing lets people see them doing what they were built to do—drive fast. All of that sound and fury might even help improve tomorrow’s production cars.
Features Cellular Carriers Features Cars Lucid Motors has become the latest automaker to announce that it will adopt the North American Charging Standard (NACS) – also known as "the Tesla plug" – for its electric vehicles.
The move follows in the footsteps of more than a dozen other automakers that have also adopted Tesla’s charging connector, among them General Motors, Ford, Toyota, BMW, Jaguar Land Rover, Volvo, and Honda.
Cars General Motors-owned Cruise has halted production of its fully driverless vehicle -- the Origin -- just over a week after it suspended robotaxi operations nationwide following a number of troubling incidents involving its cars.
The news was announced by Cruise CEO Kyle Vogt during a meeting with staff on Monday, according to Forbes, which obtained audio of the gathering.
Cars The Ram brand is finally taking an electrified approach, and by resurrecting the Ramcharger name, no less. Alongside the new 2025 Ram 1500, the company has unveiled the new 2025 Ram 1500 Ramcharger, a new plug-in hybrid that Ram touts as offering "unlimited battery electric range." The new truck is one of a number of electrified trucks, the most well-known of which include the fully-electric Ford F-150 Lightning and the new Chevrolet Silverado EV. But instead of being fully electric, the 1500 Ramcharger is a plug-in hybrid, meaning that it has an electric motor and battery, and a gas tank and engine.
The plug-in approach It's perhaps a smart move. Electric trucks show a lot of promise -- but they start to falter a little when it comes to things like towing and hauling heavy loads. Keeping the 1500 Ramcharger a hybrid means that with no load or light ones, the truck can zip around town on electric power -- and when necessary, it can switch the engine on to tow or haul. It could well be the perfect combo for many truck owners who at least occasionally need that extra oomph, but who still could stand to save some cash -- and go a little easier on the environment - when simply driving around town.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
