Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Cars News Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Mercedes-Maybach EQS SUV is old-school luxury — electrified By Stephen Edelstein Close Mercedes-Benz is preparing for an electric future with its EQ models, a line of EVs with futuristic aerodynamic styling and all of the latest infotainment tech. With several EQ models already in production, Mercedes is shifting focus to more traditional luxury.
Germany’s Rolls-Royce goes electric Dialing up luxury More power, more comfort On top … for now The Mercedes-Maybach EQS SUV is the first all-electric vehicle from Maybach, the ultra-luxury subbrand of Mercedes. It takes the EQS SUV launched in 2022 and bathes it in opulence, adding more chrome on the outside and more creature comforts on the inside.
Scheduled to go on sale in the U.S. this fall, the Maybach is an unusual EV proposition, taking what is supposed be a forward-thinking design and wrapping it in old-school luxury. Ahead of its launch, Digital Trends got an up-close look at the Maybach EQS SUV to see how Mercedes is trying to balance those two aspects.
The Lucid Gravity has more range than any other electric SUV How do you crash-test an EV with an 871-pound battery? Mercedes showed us Acura’s resurrected ZDX SUV is an EV shortcut Germany’s Rolls-Royce goes electric The Maybach name has great historical significance for Mercedes. Wilhelm Maybach was one of the earliest automotive engineers. He designed the first Mercedes-branded car for the Daimler company (now Daimler-Benz), but struck out on his own after a falling out with company management. His eponymous company built Zeppelin engines, luxury cars, and, during World War II, engines for German military vehicles.
Daimler-Benz took control of Maybach in the 1960s, but left the passenger-car business dormant. Mercedes then revived the Maybach name in the early 2000s as a competitor to the likes of Rolls-Royce and Bentley, both of which are owned by rival German automakers. Given Wilhelm Maybach’s history with Mercedes, it essentially brought things full circle.
The 21 st- century Maybach brand started out with standalone models in the form of the Maybach 57 and Maybach 62 sedans (as well as the stunning Exelero prototype), but production ended in 2012 amid dwindling sales. Mercedes then switched to making Maybach-branded versions of existing models like the S-Class sedan and GLS-Class SUV, a pattern that continues with the Maybach EQS SUV.
Dialing up luxury Mercedes took the EQS SUV and gave it similar exterior styling changes to other Maybach models. The Maybach EQS SUV has the brand’s chrome grille, a hood ornament (it’s the only Mercedes EQ model to get one), chrome window trim, Maybach-specific 21-inch or 22-inch wheels, and two-tone paint. Mercedes also plastered the front air vents with Maybach logos, bringing to mind Louis Vuitton handbags.
The interior is where the real upgrades are, however. Where the standard EQS SUV is available in a three-row, seven-seat configuration, the Maybach version is only available with two rows. A five-seat layout with a rear bench is standard, but buyers can also specify a four-seat version with individual reclining captain’s chairs and a full center console complete with a champagne cooler and glasses. The cooler extends back into the cargo area, eating into space, but this makes reloading your champagne easier, Mercedes reps pointed out.
The front seats are also exclusive to the Maybach model, and both rows feature standard Nappa leather upholstery made with what Mercedes claims is a more sustainable process that uses coffee bean shells for tanning and a closed-circuit water supply to reduce water use. There’s also real wood and aluminum interior trim, as well as the same infotainment hardware as the standard EQS SUV.
Mercedes’ 56-inch Hyperscreen display once again makes an appearance, along with a 15-speaker Burmester 4D audio system.
More power, more comfort The Maybach model gets a standard dual-motor, all-wheel drive powertrain rated at 649 horsepower and 700 pound-feet of torque — 113 hp and 67 lb.-ft. more than the most powerful non-Maybach EQS SUV. This gets the Maybach from zero to 60 mph in 4.1 seconds, according to the spec sheet, while the top speed is electronically limited to 130 mph.
Maybach engineers borrowed some tricks from the Mercedes-AMG performance division to get that extra power and acceleration, but plan to deploy it in a different way. A Maybach is a luxury car first, so the powertrain and standard adaptive-damping suspension are tuned for comfort. That includes a Maybach-specific drive mode, although engineers also kept the base EQS SUV’s off-road mode.
No official range figures have been released yet, but Mercedes is targeting 372 miles on the European Worldwide Harmonized Light Vehicles testing cycle, with the equivalent U.S. range rating likely a bit lower. All-wheel drive versions of the standard EQS SUV currently top out at 285 miles on the U.S. testing cycle, and the Maybach is a bit heavier and a bit less aerodynamic.
Using the 9.6-kilowatt AC onboard charger, a full recharge takes an estimated 12.75 hours. The Maybach can also DC fast charge at 200 kilowatts, a higher power rate than the standard model, and enough for a 10% to 80% charge in 31 minutes. Mercedes also plans to offer special perks to Maybach owners at its planned network of charging stations.
On top … for now The Maybach will likely command a significant premium over the standard EQS SUV, which starts at $105,550 before options, but we won’t know how much until closer to when it goes on sale this fall.
The Maybach EQS SUV will be the first electric SUV from an ultra-luxury brand. The Rolls-Royce Spectre is a more traditional coupe, and Bentley doesn’t plan to launch its first EV until 2025. Expect Rolls and Bentley to launch their own electric SUVs at some point; it’s an inevitability given the success of the gasoline Rolls-Royce Cullinan and Bentley Bentayga.
 High-end buyers may also cross-shop with the electric Range Rover that’s rumored to be in the works. So while Maybach gets credit for being first, it won’t have the field to itself for long.
Editors' Recommendations Cadillac aims to balance its lineup with a small electric SUV Part plug-in, part dragster, the Mercedes-AMG GLC63 is an SUV of many faces One of the best values in electric SUVs comes from the last brand you’d expect Everything is bigger in Cadillac’s electric Escalade IQ Mercedes-AMG EQE SUV first drive review: a better electric SUV Tech News Cars It's a time of transition at Mercedes-Benz. The venerable automaker is looking toward an electric future with EVs like the EQS, while introducing updated versions of its traditional internal-combustion models like the S-Class. The 2024 Mercedes-AMG S63 E Performance bridges the gap.
For those not fluent in Mercedes-speak, AMG is the automaker's performance version, and the S63 is a hot-rodded version of the S-Class. This 2024 model is the latest in a long line of big, powerful Mercedes sedans that combine limousine-like luxury with sports-car thrust. But this time, there's a twist.
Cars Mercedes-Benz this week unveiled a new electric concept car that looks back as well as forward. It's called the Vision One-Eleven, and it's a reminder that car designers have a long history of predicting the future.
The Vision One-Eleven is inspired by the C111 series of experimental vehicles that first appeared in 1969. With their aerodynamic styling, roof-hinged gullwing doors, and distinctive orange paint, the C111 cars became fixtures of auto show stands and car-magazine features throughout the 1970s. They were more than show cars, though, testing then-trendy ideas like fiberglass body panels and rotary engines.
Cars The EV world is seriously heating up. Great EVs are getting cheaper, and cheap EVs are getting better -- and while we still have a long way before they're truly affordable for everyone, that reality seems to be at least in sight. But not everyone wants a great car at a reasonable price. Some simply want a luxurious driving experience and are willing to pay for it.
If that's you, I think I've found the car for you -- the Mercedes-AMG EQE.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
