Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch How we test products and services 5.
Maybe I just need a 500Hz gaming monitor? These are our labs.
We know – you expected a table full of oscilloscopes, spectrometers and white lab coats. But your living room isn’t a sparkling research facility, and hard specs don’t determine which gadget is best for you any more than the Nutrition Facts label determines which breakfast cereal you pour in your bowl in the morning.
Our editors, writers, and contributors test products and services in the real world. Laptops and tablets get toted around in backpacks, used on tray tables at 30,000 feet, and propped up to watch YouTube in bed. TVs get set up in bright living rooms and in pitch-dark basements, have their remotes accidentally slathered in buffalo wing sauce on game day, and their menu systems critiqued by crying kids that can’t manage to pull up Netflix to watch their favorite shows.
 Phones are tossed in pockets with keys, used to buy movie tickets in a pinch on a Friday night and, occasionally, dropped. Because that’s life.
Benchmarks? Yep, we do that too, testing devices wherever possible to make objective measurements between similar devices. We use colorimeters on televisions and monitors, battery life loops on phones and laptops, and synthetic benchmark software on a wide variety of devices.
However, we know these objective tests don’t tell the whole story. Tech often works differently when faced with real-world challenges day after day. That’s why Digital Trends editors put in the real-life testing to make sure that our reviews reflect the way you’ll use the latest tech.
Computing Digital Trends doesn’t just report the news and offer generic buying recommendations for PCs. We go the extra mile to test the latest hardware, games, and applications ourselves, because we know that your experience of your PC has only just begun when you click “Add to Cart.” Whether it’s testing performance of Premiere Pro on a MacBook Pro or Elden Ring on your homebuilt gaming rig, DT covers it all with smart, approachable, and insightful commentary.
How we test laptops | Laptop reviews | The best laptops How we test desktop computers | Desktop computer reviews | The best desktop computers How we test PC components | The best GPUs | The best CPUs How we test monitors | Monitor reviews | The best monitors | The best gaming monitors Mobile For most of us, our phone is the center of our world — and not just our tech world. What phone you use, how you use it, and how it connects to everything else in your life is critical. We know that your experience with a phone doesn’t end the day you take it out of the box, and neither does our Mobile coverage. From buying advice and the latest news, to how-to guides and helpful analysis, we have the mobile world covered.
How we test phones | Phone reviews | The best phones How we test tablets | Tablet reviews | The best tablets How we test smartwatches and wearables | Smartwatch reviews | The best smartwatches Fitness tracker reviews | The best fitness trackers Gaming Digital Trends offers trustworthy reviews, critical analysis, and in-depth guides covering the entire gaming world. We aren’t afraid to go deeper on the games we love and eschew the easy wins of trash talking the latest game or rolling out misleading headlines. Games are fun, and we’re here to have fun playing them right alongside you.
How we review video games | Game reviews How we test video game consoles | Game system reviews Entertainment Digital Trends is the go-to hub for pop culture fans wanting to discover the latest movie or TV show that they should be watching or discover a new way of looking at one of their favorite pieces of entertainment.
Whether you’re well-versed in the entertainment world or just looking for the next big streaming hit, DT has everything you need to see.
Movie and TV show reviews Audio/Video Digital Trends covers every aspect of your home entertainment experience, from the top-end television to the commodity of streaming sticks, to headphones and the must-have streaming services. And then we’ll help you focus on what’s important, and in a way that’s fun and opinionated and helps you figure out where to spend your money and time.
How we test TVs | TV reviews | The best TVs How we test media streaming devices | Media streamer reviews How we test soundbars | Soundbar reviews | The best soundbars How we test speakers | Speaker reviews | The best speakers How we test headphones | Headphone reviews | The best headphones How we test AV receivers | The best AV receivers How we test turntables and record players | The best turntables Smart Home Nobody else is doing the smart home justice. Mainstream coverage stops at installing a color-changing light bulb, and enthusiast sites obsess over arcane protocols and automation scripts. Digital Trends focuses on the sweet spot of affordable, commonly available smart home technologies and how they can be easily integrated into your home, with a focus on utility. If it doesn’t do something you need done, we’re not covering it.
Smart home reviews How we test vacuum cleaners | Vacuum reviews | The best vacuums Home security reviews Power stations | The best power stations Cars Car reviews What our review scores mean The hundreds of products we review every year are scored on a scale of five stars, including half-star increments. Initial reviews and hands-on time with products may lead to initial review scores being given, and it will always be made clear when this is the case. These initial reviews are often updated to include impressions after a full review period, which will also include a revised review score.
5 Stars: Exceptional A game changer, or remarkable in some way 4.5 Stars: Amazing Outstanding in every way, has no major drawbacks, and is at the top of its category 4 Stars: Great Near perfect, with only minor quibbles 3.5 Stars: Very Good A very good product held back by a few issues (or stiff competition) 3 Stars: Good Competitive. It isn’t the best choice, but good qualities outweigh the bad ones 2.5 Stars: Adequate Not always the best choice, but it can get the job done 2 Stars: Disappointing Delivers on far less than it should, and needs some work 1.5 Stars: Poor Persistently difficult and annoying to use 1 Star: Very Poor Deeply flawed and barely functional 0.5 Stars: Garbage Unenjoyable Product Awards In addition to our scores, we also give awards to products and companies. Editors’ Choice, Best Products, and Recommended Products awards are given to products that are top in their field. We have further industry awards for events like CES, as well as our own recognition of important companies with the Tech for Change awards.
Editors’ Choice What’s the ideal laptop for me? While no product is ever perfect, there’s one out there that’s perfect for you. Our experts hand-test the newest products in dozens of categories, compare them against each other, and with the help of industry-standard benchmark tests, score, rate, and rank them. From speakers to smartphones, only the best of the best receive the Digital Trends Editors’ Choice award.
Recommended Product Following thorough benchmark testing and real-world use, Digital Trends recommends hundreds of products every year that meet our exacting standards. Products that carry this stamp of approval stand out from the crowd, moving the needle in terms of price, performance, and quality.
Best Products A popular category may have dozens of products that are really good — good enough that we recommend them or even award them our Editors’ Choice. But which is the best of the best? Digital Trends keeps up to date dozens of lists showcasing the best products, explaining in simply language why we picked it, who it’s for, and why you should buy it — or why you should hold off.
CES With thousands of vendors spread across 2.2 million square feet of show floor, the Consumer Electronics Association’s annual CES event grows bigger every year. Our editorial team — experts in their fields and jaded to every type of hype and manipulation – sort the gimcracks from the godsends to find the truly amazing. Our Top Tech of CES awards showcase the stuff that swept them off their feet.
Tech for Change From 3D-printed prostheses to burgers grown in science labs to smarter mobility for the elderly or infirm, tech improves our lives every day in a million ways beyond simply making things more convenient. Tech can have a meaningful impact– that’s why we call it Tech for Change. Winners of our award represent the companies and people fighting to make a difference.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
