Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Cars News Thanks to all-wheel drive, the 2019 Toyota Prius is ready for winter By Stephen Edelstein Close Previous Next 1 8 Image used with permission by copyright holder Image used with permission by copyright holder Image used with permission by copyright holder Image used with permission by copyright holder Image used with permission by copyright holder Image used with permission by copyright holder Image used with permission by copyright holder Image used with permission by copyright holder The Toyota Prius is the quintessential hybrid , but that doesn’t mean it is a good fit for everyone. To date, the Prius has been front-wheel drive only, which has made the hybrid less appealing in snowy climates. But the 2019 Toyota Prius is ready to face winter, thanks to all-wheel drive.
The updated Prius, which debuts at the 2018 Los Angeles Auto Show, will still get front-wheel drive as standard equipment. But Toyota is adding the option of all-wheel drive, using a system similar to its existing hybrid crossovers.
 An additional electric motor powers the rear wheels, with no direct connection to the front wheels. The rear motor kicks in from a standstill to 6 mph, and continues working as needed up to 43 mph. Unless the extra traction is needed the system, dubbed “AWD-e” by Toyota, defaults to front-wheel drive in the name of fuel economy. That’s the whole point of a Prius, after all.
2021 Toyota Prius vs. 2021 Toyota Prius Prime 2019 LA Auto Show: Highlights, headlines, and everything awesome 2020 Karma Revero GTS adds performance to go with its sleek looks Speaking of fuel economy, Toyota expects the 2019 Prius AWD-e to achieve 50 mpg combined (52 mpg city, 48 mpg highway) in EPA testing. Ratings for front-wheel drive Prius models are expected to remain unchanged for 2019, with the Prius L Eco netting 56 mpg combined (58 mpg city, 53 mpg highway), and all other models getting 52 mpg combined (54 mpg city, 50 mpg highway).
The entire Prius lineup also gets some minor changes for 2019, including tweaks to the exterior styling. The updates don’t cover tech, however. The 2019 Prius has the same Entune infotainment system, with a 6.1-inch touchscreen, from 2018. It doesn’t get the Entune 3.0 system with an 8.0-inch touchscreen and Apple CarPlay used in some other Toyota models.
Previous Next 1 9 Stephen Edelstein/Digital Trends Stephen Edelstein/Digital Trends Stephen Edelstein/Digital Trends Stephen Edelstein/Digital Trends Stephen Edelstein/Digital Trends Stephen Edelstein/Digital Trends Stephen Edelstein/Digital Trends Stephen Edelstein/Digital Trends Stephen Edelstein/Digital Trends The 2019 Prius also gets the Toyota Safety Sense P bundle of driver aids as standard equipment, including adaptive cruise control, autonomous emergency braking, automatic high beams, and lane-keep assist. While the Prius does get a limited steering assist feature, it doesn’t have the Lane Trace Assist lane-centering feature rolling out in some other Toyota models. The Prius also lacks Toyota’s new Road Sign Assist, which uses a camera to read stop, yield, do not enter, and speed limit signs.
The 2019 Toyota Prius debuts at the 2018 Los Angeles Auto Show alongside another Toyota hybrid model. A new variant of Toyota’s evergreen compact sedan , the 2020 Toyota Corolla Hybrid shares the same basic platform as the Prius, and is expected to offer 50 mpg combined. It also gets some of the tech features the Prius lacks, and more conventional exterior styling. Adding all-wheel drive to the Prius will provide an important differentiator between the two models, and a lifeline to snowbound environmentalists.
Updated on November 28, 2018: Added live photos.
Editors' Recommendations 2022 Toyota Tundra hybrid first drive review: New dog, old tricks Hyundai Sonata Hybrid’s solar roof can deliver up to 700 miles of ‘free’ driving Lincoln Corsair Grand Touring adds plug-in hybrid power 2020 Audi E-Tron Sportback is all about style, but still has substance 2021 Toyota RAV4 Prime adds fuel efficiency and power in equal measure News LA Auto Show Tech News Toyota Cars Previous Next Cars Volkswagen unveiled yet another concept car in its ID series of electric vehicles at the 2019 Los Angeles Auto Show. With previous ID concepts showcasing hatchback, crossover, and even dune buggy designs, you'd think VW would be out of ideas. But the Volkswagen ID.Space Vizzion promises something different. Previewing a possible production model that could launch in 2021, Volkswagen claims it will defy categorization.
The ID.Space Vizzion will combine "the aerodynamic characteristics of a Gran Turismo with the spaciousness of an SUV," according to Volkswagen. The concept car has a tall, upright roofline, but without the ground clearance normally associated with SUVs. It looks a bit like the recently discontinued Ford Flex, which also tried to combine car and SUV styling elements. It also means the ID.Space Vizzion looks a bit like a minivan without sliding doors.
Cars Audi has picked the 2019 Los Angeles Auto Show to make the global debut of the 2020 e-tron Sportback. Several other models will make their global debut here as well; the 2020 RS models including the Audi RS 6 Avant and the RS 7, and -- as a highlight -- the global debut of the high performance SUV, the Audi RS Q8.
The e-tron Sportback is the most anticipated debut for fans of Audi, this being only the second all-electric vehicle produced by the German automaker. The five-passenger SUV coupe is equipped with standard electric quattro all-wheel drive and is expected to get just over 200 miles of range on a full charge. It will accept a 150 kilowatt DC charge that in a brief 10 minutes can give you 54 miles of range. Audi will give e-tron owners 1,000 kWh of charging to use at Electrify America fast-charging stations within the first four years of ownership.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
