Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Cars News For 2020, Toyota is finally fixing the Prius Prime’s two biggest downsides By Ronan Glon Close Image used with permission by copyright holder Efficient, smart, and reliable, the Toyota Prius Prime has been one of our favorite hybrid cars since it went on sale in 2016. It’s not perfect, but Toyota is finally fixing its two biggest downsides by carving out more space for passengers, and by adding useful connectivity features. The updated Prius Prime will begin to arrive in showrooms during the 2020 model year.
Toyota focused on the interior during this round of updates. It notably added a more spacious rear bench to make the Prius Prime a five-seater. Its overall dimensions haven’t changed, so we wouldn’t want to fit three XL-sized adults in the back, but the additional rear seat makes the Prius considerably more practical for motorists who occasionally carry four passengers, or who have children. There’s no word yet on whether going from four seats to five has an effect on cargo capacity.
As an incentive to sit in the back, Toyota placed two additional USB ports within the reach of the rear passengers. Up front, motorists will finally be able to enjoy Apple CarPlay.
 The Japanese automaker firmly refused to offer the feature for years, but it finally caved, and CarPlay is gradually appearing in a growing list of Toyota models. Amazon Alexa compatibility comes standard, too.
Android users are out of luck for the time being, but that could change soon. Several Toyota models (including the redesigned Tacoma ) are gaining Android Auto compatibility for the 2020 model year.
2022 Toyota Tundra hybrid first drive review: New dog, old tricks Toyota announces site for its first U.S. battery plant 2022 Toyota GR 86 first drive: Old-school thrills meet modern tech There are no visual changes to report, for better or worse, so the Prius remains as polarizing as ever. Similarly, Toyota hasn’t made any updates beneath the sheet metal. The Prime still uses a 1.8-liter, four-cylinder engine that works jointly with an electric motor linked to an 8.8-kilowatt-hour lithium-ion battery pack. The system’s total output checks in at 121 horsepower, and the Prime returns an EPA-estimated 54 mpg in a combined cycle.
With a full tank of gas and a full battery, Toyota’s fuel-sipper offers a 640-mile driving range ; in other words, you can drive it from New York City to Detroit without stopping, and still have a little bit of fuel left in the tank. Its electric-only range checks in at up to 25 miles.
The 2020 Toyota Prius Prime will go on sale in the summer of 2019. The Japanese firm has renamed the three available trim levels LE, XLE, and Limited, respectively, but pricing stays relatively flat. Plan on spending $27,600 for the base LE model, $29,500 for the midrange XLE, and $33,500 for the range-topping Limited.
Editors' Recommendations Toyota joins ‘the Tesla plug’ club 2023 Toyota Sequoia supersizes hybrid tech Apple rumored to finally be fixing the iPad Pro’s biggest design flaw 2021 Toyota Highlander vs. 2020 Ford Explorer Toyota RAV4 vs. Honda CR-V: The differences and the similarities News Tech News Toyota Cars Toyota calls the Prius "the car that changed an industry," and that's not a far-fetched statement. Although hybrid technology has been around for over a century, the original Prius is responsible for democratizing it.
Well into its fourth generation, the 2021 Prius is still the poster child of the hybrid car segment in many markets, but the range is now broken down into two models. Called Prius, the first is a regular hybrid, meaning the electric motor makes it more efficient but it can't power the car on its own. Named Prius Prime, the second is a plug-in hybrid, so it can be plugged in and its electric motor is powerful enough to move the car on its own for relatively short distances.
Tech features 2020 Toyota Prius Prime Image used with permission by copyright holder Cars The decades-old Toyota Camry versus Honda Accord rivalry is alive and well in 2020. Both sedans are increasingly overshadowed by the crossovers they share showroom space with, but they remain wildly popular and are common sights all across America. In 2019, the Camry was America's eighth-bestselling car (336,978 units), and the Accord fell to the 11th spot (267,567 units). Here's how these two sedans compare on paper, and how they're different.
Tech features 1.
2020 Toyota Camry TRD 2.
2020 Honda Accord Cars When someone tells us they need "just a car," our answer is usually either the Honda Civic or the Toyota Corolla. Odds are you've owned one, driven one, or at least ridden in one, and their ubiquity isn't random. Both are dependable, value-packed, affordable, and safe, and the 2020 models are smarter than they've ever been.
On one end of the spectrum, they're quick; the Honda Civic Type R packs over 300 horsepower. On the other, they're efficient; the Corolla Hybrid returns 53 mpg in the city. Here's how these two hot-selling models compare on paper.
Tech features Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
