Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Cars News 2021 Toyota RAV4 Prime adds fuel efficiency and power in equal measure By Stephen Edelstein Close Previous Next 1 10 Image used with permission by copyright holder Image used with permission by copyright holder Image used with permission by copyright holder Image used with permission by copyright holder Image used with permission by copyright holder Image used with permission by copyright holder Image used with permission by copyright holder Image used with permission by copyright holder Image used with permission by copyright holder Image used with permission by copyright holder About a month after it was first announced , the 2021 Toyota RAV4 Prime plug-in hybrid is making its public debut at the 2019 Los Angeles Auto Show. Toyota claims the Prime will not only be more fuel efficient than other RAV4 variants, but quicker and more powerful as well. How could you argue with that? As with the Prius Prime , Toyota used the “Prime” name to signify this RAV4’s plug-in hybrid powertrain. Toyota already offers a RAV4 Hybrid model without a plug, but adding one allowed engineers to fit a bigger battery pack. That provides more electricity storage capacity, giving the RAV4 Prime limited all-electric driving capability (up to 39 miles, according to Toyota).
2021 Toyota RAV4 vs. 2021 Subaru Forester 2020 Karma Revero GTS adds performance to go with its sleek looks Acura adds some supercar touches to its MDX family crossover The RAV4 Prime uses the same 2.5-liter Atkinson-cycle four-cylinder engine as the RAV4 Hybrid, but with different tuning and an upgraded hybrid system. The result is a total system output of 302 horsepower — 83 hp more than the RAV4 Hybrid. Toyota claims the RAV4 Prime will do zero to 60 mph in 5.8 seconds. That’s pretty quick for a crossover with no real performance DNA, as well as 2.0 seconds quicker than the RAV4 Hybrid.
The Prime uses the same all-wheel drive system as the RAV4 Hybrid. A separate electric motor powers the rear axle, with no physical connection to the front wheels. Toyota also included an off-road mode that can increase traction by braking a spinning wheel and shunting power to the opposite wheel. But if off-roading is really your thing, buy a 4Runner.
 On pavement, the RAV4 Prime driver can use paddled shifters to adjust the level of regenerative braking, a feature already available in vehicles like the Mitsubishi Outlander PHEV.
Gasoline and hybrid versions of the RAV4 are available in myriad trim levels, but Toyota limited RAV4 Prime choices to two — SE and XSE. The base SE comes standard with a 7-inch touchscreen, as well as Apple CarPlay , Android Auto , and Amazon Alexa compatibility. The XSE adds the paddle shifters, wireless phone charging, a 9-inch touchscreen, and synthetic leather upholstery. Toyota hasn’t released pricing for either trim level, however.
The RAV4 Prime gets the same Toyota Safety Sense bundle of driver aids as other RAV4 variants.
 Adaptive cruise control, lane departure warning, and automatic high beams are all standard, as is a feature that recognizes road signs. The Premium Package for the XSE trim level adds front and rear park assists and reverse autonomous emergency braking. The RAV4 Prime is also covered under Toyota’s new battery warranty, which lasts 10 years or 150,000 miles, whichever comes first.
When it goes on sale in Summer 2020, the RAV4 Prime will compete against the Mitsubishi Outlander PHEV and a plug-in hybrid version of the recently-redesigned Ford Escape.
 The Ford will use a version of the powertrain from the Lincoln Corsair Grand Touring (which also debuts in L.A.) but without all-wheel drive.
Editors' Recommendations Toyota RAV4 vs. Honda CR-V: The differences and the similarities Lincoln Corsair Grand Touring adds plug-in hybrid power Pint-sized 2021 Kia Seltos crossover could be a great tech value Toyota’s E-volution continues with 2021 Mirai and 2021 RAV4 Plugin Toyota aims to turn its grocery-getter RAV4 into a genuine off-roader News LA Auto Show Tech News Toyota Cars Previous Next Cars Previous Next Cars Lucid Motors has become the latest automaker to announce that it will adopt the North American Charging Standard (NACS) – also known as "the Tesla plug" – for its electric vehicles.
The move follows in the footsteps of more than a dozen other automakers that have also adopted Tesla’s charging connector, among them General Motors, Ford, Toyota, BMW, Jaguar Land Rover, Volvo, and Honda.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
