Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Cars 2022 Toyota GR 86 first drive: Old-school thrills meet modern tech By Stephen Edelstein Close Automakers love to use words like “sport” or “performance” to describe their latest wares, but usually, those descriptors are applied to sedans and SUVs that prioritize other things besides the driving experience. The 2022 Toyota GR 86 is different.
Design and interior Tech, infotainment, and driver-assist Driving experience Gas mileage and safety How DT would configure this car Our take Should you get one? The GR 86 is a small, rear-wheel drive sports car designed to make driving as fun as possible. Such cars are rare these days. Only the Mazda MX-5 Miata and the GR 86’s twin, the Subaru BRZ, stand as true rivals. You’ll likely be able to get a Ford Mustang or Chevrolet Camaro for similar money, but they’re larger cars with a different character.
As part of a redesign for the 2022 model year, the car formerly known as the Toyota 86 gets “GR” nomenclature to fit Toyota’s new performance branding scheme. GR is short for Gazoo Racing, the Toyota division that’s also responsible for the Supra, as well as the automaker’s international racing programs. Note that Gazoo Racing is separate from Toyota Racing Development (TRD), which applies its own branding to some models as well.
Subaru and Toyota will keep working together to create sports cars and hybrids Toyota will sell the GR 86 in base and Premium trim levels, and we got to try both out during a day of driving at New York’s Monticello Motor Club racetrack. Toyota hasn’t released pricing information yet but promises the base price will be under $30,000 (including destination), keeping the GR 86 on the affordable end of the spectrum.
Design and interior As with its predecessor, the 2022 Toyota GR 86 is virtually identical to the Subaru BRZ, which also gets redesigned for the new model year. Toyota and Subaru partnered on the development of these sports cars because it made financial sense, as it allowed the two companies to share development costs for these low-volume vehicles. Toyota did the same thing with the Supra , which was twinned with the BMW Z4.
“86” references the 1986 AE86-generation Toyota Corolla, an enthusiast favorite that was immortalized in the manga and anime “Initial D.” However, while the AE86 was a more tuner-friendly version of an ordinary compact car, the GR 86 is a pure sports car. Toyota felt it was appropriate to use the “86” name because both cars are rear-wheel drive and because the name carries some weight with Millennial car buyers as well as the tuner crowd.
Styling is usually a sports-car selling point, but we don’t expect that to be the case here.
Styling is usually a sports-car selling point, but we don’t expect that to be the case here. The old Toyota 86 wasn’t a pretty car, and with the GR 86, Toyota seems to have just awkwardly piled more widgets onto that generic shape. The vents in the front fascia and fenders are functional but look tacked on. The headlights and taillights are new but aren’t distinctive. Toyota seems to be betting that people will buy the GR 86 based on how it drives, not how it looks.
As before, the interior is plain but functional. While the GR 86 has rear seats, they don’t have enough room for full-size adults. It’s better to think of them as extra cargo space. They also fold down, creating enough space to accommodate a set of tires for track days, Toyota claims. If interior space is a priority, the larger Ford Mustang or Chevrolet Camaro might be a better idea.
Tech, infotainment, and driver-assist The Toyota 86 didn’t have much to offer in terms of tech, but that changes with the 2022 GR 86. The new model gets a standard 8.0-inch touchscreen and a 7.0-inch digital instrument cluster. That’s a big upgrade over the old 86, which only had a 7.0-inch touchscreen and analog gauges. Wired Apple CarPlay and Android Auto are standard as well.
While it’s a significant upgrade over the old infotainment system, the new version is still fairly basic. We found the touchscreen easy to use, but don’t expect any bells and whistles. The instrument cluster managed to pack a lot of information into a relatively small space. Switch to track mode, and you get a lap timer and a digital tachometer that’s easier to read at a glance than the traditional version.
The Toyota 86 didn’t have much to offer in terms of tech, but that changes with the 2022 GR 86.
The GR 86 also gets a decent array of driver-assist tech, but these features are only available on automatic-transmission cars. Opt for the automatic, and you get automatic emergency braking, adaptive cruise control, pre-collision throttle management, lane-departure warning, sway warning, automatic high beams, and lead-vehicle start alert, which sounds when the car in front pulls away from a stop. GR 86 Premium models also get blind-spot monitoring, rear cross-traffic alert, and adaptive headlights.
All of these features are enabled by Subaru’s EyeSight system , which uses a pair of cameras mounted near the top of the windshield. While the two cars share hardware, the GR 86 won’t get the rear automatic-braking and lane-keep assist functions that will be available on automatic-transmission 2022 Subaru BRZ models (as extra-cost options).
Driving experience Like the 86, the GR 86 has a Subaru boxer engine under its low-slung hood. The boxer configuration — so named because the pistons cross paths like boxers throwing punches — provides a lower center of gravity, improving handling, Toyota claims.
For 2022, the four-cylinder engine grows from 2.0 liters to 2.4-liters and boasts more power. Output is now 228 horsepower and 184 pound-feet of torque, compared to 205 hp and 156 lb.-ft. before. Like its predecessor, the GR 86 is available with a six-speed manual or six-speed automatic transmission.
Toyota claims the new car is quicker, quoting zero to 60 mph in 6.1 seconds with the manual transmission and 6.6 seconds for the automatic. Those are improvements of 0.9 seconds for the manual and 1.4 seconds for the automatic, but these days, they don’t set the world on fire. However, the GR 86 isn’t about how quickly you get somewhere. It’s about how much fun you have on the way.
The GR 86 isn’t about how quickly you get somewhere. It’s about how much fun you have on the way.
The revamped engine combines with the things that made the old Toyota 86 great — including a low curb weight, rear-wheel drive, and an available manual transmission — to channel the essence of driving. Unlike so many modern cars, the GR 86 doesn’t isolate you from the action. Everything has an immediate impact, and the car gives plenty of feedback to let you know what’s going on. This is the driving equivalent of a fine wine. It’s something to be savored for its complexity.
The GR 86 is also a significant improvement over the old 86. That car had the same character, but the new one feels even sharper, with more precise steering and a tighter, more controllable chassis. Over back-to-back laps on the track, it was easier to place the GR 86 in corners than its predecessor. The GR 86’s more accessible torque also made it easier to power out of those corners. During a brief road drive, we also found the GR 86 to be quieter and more comfortable than its predecessor. It’s the one we’d choose for a long trip.
Gas mileage and safety Official fuel-economy ratings haven’t been published yet, but Toyota estimates 21 mpg combined (19 mpg city, 26 mpg highway) with the manual transmission, and 24 mpg combined (20 mpg city, 30 mpg highway) with the automatic.
Crash-test ratings from the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety (IIHS) and National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) aren’t available either. That’s typical for newly-released vehicles, and sports cars also aren’t a priority for safety organizations because of their low sales volumes.
Toyota offers a three-year, 36,000-mile basic warranty and a five-year, 60,000-mile powertrain warranty. The GR 86 also gets a five-year corrosion warranty (with no mileage limit) and two years or 25,000 miles (whichever comes first) of scheduled maintenance and 24-hour roadside assistance. Buyers also get a free one-year membership in the National Auto Sport Association (NASA), so they can get the most out of their cars by attending track-day events.
How DT would configure this car There isn’t a massive difference between the base GR 86 and the Premium model when it comes to tech, but the Premium does get blind-spot monitoring, rear cross-traffic alert, and adaptive front headlights, so that would be the better choice for buyers who want the most features.
Aside from tech, it’s worth considering what kind of driving experience you want. With its low-grip tires, the base GR 86 is a car for drifting enthusiasts who like to hang the tail out at every opportunity. The GR 86 Premium has gripper tires that make for a less dramatic experience but also likely quicker lap times. There’s no wrong answer here; it’s just a matter of preference.
Our take Sports cars represent an ever-shrinking niche, but the 2022 Toyota GR 86 does have a few rivals, the closest being the Mazda MX-5 Miata.
 The Miata is the quintessential small sports car, and, like the GR 86, it emphasizes agility over power. The Mazda is more than a match for the Toyota in driving dynamics, but it’s only available as a convertible, making it even less practical.
GR 86 pricing should also come close to base versions of the Ford Mustang and Chevrolet Camaro. That means swapping the traditional V8 for a turbocharged four-cylinder engine but also gaining more interior space. Ford also offers a performance package for the four-cylinder Mustang that makes it pretty lively. However, these bigger cars still sacrifice some handling sharpness and driver involvement to the flyweight GR 86.
We haven’t driven the 2022 Subaru BRZ yet, but given its similarity to the GR 86 and our experiences with past versions of both cars, we don’t expect it to feel dramatically different from the Toyota. Subaru has confirmed that the 2022 BRZ will start at $28,955 (including destination), so there may not be much difference in price, either. Any purchase decision may come down to styling preference and which dealership makes a better offer.
Should you get one? Yes. The Toyota 86 was a great sports car, but the GR 86 is even better.
Editors' Recommendations 2022 Toyota Tundra hybrid first drive review: New dog, old tricks Toyota Cars Lucid Motors has become the latest automaker to announce that it will adopt the North American Charging Standard (NACS) – also known as "the Tesla plug" – for its electric vehicles.
The move follows in the footsteps of more than a dozen other automakers that have also adopted Tesla’s charging connector, among them General Motors, Ford, Toyota, BMW, Jaguar Land Rover, Volvo, and Honda.
Cars General Motors-owned Cruise has halted production of its fully driverless vehicle -- the Origin -- just over a week after it suspended robotaxi operations nationwide following a number of troubling incidents involving its cars.
The news was announced by Cruise CEO Kyle Vogt during a meeting with staff on Monday, according to Forbes, which obtained audio of the gathering.
Cars The Ram brand is finally taking an electrified approach, and by resurrecting the Ramcharger name, no less. Alongside the new 2025 Ram 1500, the company has unveiled the new 2025 Ram 1500 Ramcharger, a new plug-in hybrid that Ram touts as offering "unlimited battery electric range." The new truck is one of a number of electrified trucks, the most well-known of which include the fully-electric Ford F-150 Lightning and the new Chevrolet Silverado EV. But instead of being fully electric, the 1500 Ramcharger is a plug-in hybrid, meaning that it has an electric motor and battery, and a gas tank and engine.
The plug-in approach It's perhaps a smart move. Electric trucks show a lot of promise -- but they start to falter a little when it comes to things like towing and hauling heavy loads. Keeping the 1500 Ramcharger a hybrid means that with no load or light ones, the truck can zip around town on electric power -- and when necessary, it can switch the engine on to tow or haul. It could well be the perfect combo for many truck owners who at least occasionally need that extra oomph, but who still could stand to save some cash -- and go a little easier on the environment - when simply driving around town.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
