Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Cars Products The best hybrid SUVs By Kristen Hall-Geisler Close SUVs are bigger and correspondingly heavier than sedans, but they’re not always less efficient. Hybrid technology has allowed carmakers to build generously sized people-movers that are surprisingly good on gas. If that sounds like what you want in your driveway, Digital Trends has selected the best hybrid SUVs available in 2020, including the Toyota Highlander Hybrid. You get a lot for your money with the Highlander, and it has enough space for your family.
Best hybrid SUV: 2021 Toyota Highlander Hybrid Best luxury hybrid SUV: 2020 Porsche Cayenne E-Hybrid Best affordable hybrid SUV: 2021 Toyota RAV4 Hybrid Best plug-in hybrid SUV: 2021 Volvo XC60 Recharge Best hybrid SUV: 2021 Toyota Highlander Hybrid Image used with permission by copyright holder Who it’s for: People who need good gas mileage, three rows, and reliability.
Why you should buy it: To trim your fuel budget when you need a three-row SUV to fit your family.
9 longest-range plug-in hybrids: get the best of both worlds The best SUVs for families The best hybrid cars How much will it cost: $38,410+ This midsize SUV gets 36 mpg combined, which is decent for a sedan, let alone an SUV that can carry seven. As in most SUVs, the third row is probably a better fit for kids than adults, but still: It’s there. Toyota was an early operator in the hybrid space, and it maintained its commitment to this powertrain. After two decades on the market, Toyota’s hybrid technology is widely considered to be boringly competent, and the Highlander has a history of great predicted reliability scores.
You also get a lot for your money with the Highlander Hybrid. Toyota’s Safety Sense suite of driver assistance tech is standard, and all-wheel drive is available. It was completely redesigned for 2020, so some things that were notably missing in past years, like Android Auto, are now included. Amazon Alexa compatibility is also standard, along with Apple CarPlay.
The Toyota Highlander Hybrid’s redesign updated the interior, and the whole vehicle uses lightweight materials. That contributed to the boost in miles per gallon between 2019 and 2020. The floor-mounted batteries are tucked out of the way, so there’s as much passenger and cargo space in the hybrid as in the non-hybrid Highlander.
Best luxury hybrid SUV: 2020 Porsche Cayenne E-Hybrid Image used with permission by copyright holder Who it’s for: Drivers who don’t want to sacrifice luxury and sportiness for fuel economy.
Why you should buy it: Excellent driving dynamics and excellent reliability scores are a rare pairing.
How much will it cost: $81,800+ When the original Cayenne made its debut, Porsche fans wondered whether the company could credibly put its name on an SUV. It could. Now in its third generation, the Cayenne is offered with a plug-in hybrid powertrain that has 455 horsepower on tap and offers a very un-hybrid-like 4.7-second sprint from zero to 60mph. Combined fuel economy while driving as a hybrid is 21 mpg, but keep in mind this is a plug-in hybrid, so before the gas engine kicks on, the Cayenne can travel 14 miles on all-electric energy with a full battery.
There’s also a ton of advanced tech aboard the 2020 Porsche Cayenne E-Hybrid, like InnoDrive.
 This adaptive cruise control system uses navigation data, radar, and sensors — including traffic, curves, and elevation changes — to estimate “the optimum acceleration and deceleration values,” according to Porsche.
 There’s a standard 12.3-inch touch screen with smartphone connectivity and a Wi-Fi hotspot, too, plus five USB ports throughout the vehicle.
Read our in-depth Porsche Cayenne review Best affordable hybrid SUV: 2021 Toyota RAV4 Hybrid Stephen Edelstein/Digital Trends Who it’s for: Drivers who want a hybrid SUV but don’t want to have to take a second job to afford it.
Why you should buy it: Inexpensive, in this case, doesn’t mean cheap or unreliable.
How much will it cost: $28,500+ For about the same price as any compact SUV on the market, it’s possible to buy a RAV4 Hybrid that gets 40 mpg combined. That’s better than most non-hybrid cars. The RAV4’s electric motor does it a favor by adding torque to the drivetrain, so it feels peppier to drive than its non-hybrid counterpart. It also makes a total of 219 hp, which is again more than the gasoline version. It’s really a no-brainer if you’re trying to decide between the regular and the hybrid RAV4, though keep in mind the latter is about $2,500 more expensive.
Many features that are standard in more expensive Toyotas — and even some Lexus models — are standard in the RAV4 Hybrid. This includes all-wheel drive, smartphone connectivity, Safety Sense 2.0, and Wi-Fi. Despite its small size, there’s plenty of room for people and their stuff. The rear seats, in particular, have actual legroom. Yet it’s still maneuverable in tight spaces like parking garages. And, if you want an even more efficient Toyota RAV4, the range includes a plug-in hybrid model named Prime which is both fast and frugal, though at $38,100 it’s certainly not cheap.
Read our in-depth Toyota RAV4 Hybrid first drive Best plug-in hybrid SUV: 2021 Volvo XC60 Recharge Image used with permission by copyright holder Who it’s for: Anyone who’s not quite sure they want to go all the way electric.
Why you should buy it: There’s a lot of advanced technology in the XC60.
How much will it cost: $53,500+ This was a tough call, because the XC60 only returns 27 mpg combined when it’s running as a hybrid. But it gets 57 MPGe when using all-electric power, and it can travel for approximately 18 miles with a full battery.
Why choose the Volvo XC60 instead of, say, the 2020 Kia Niro plug-in hybrid, which gets 46 mpg combined and 105 MPGe? Because when you load up the Niro with all the extras, you’re still short of what the Volvo comes with, yet you’ll pay over $35,000.
The base trim of the Volvo XC60 has a luxury leather interior and large cargo area, and there’s a 9.0-inch vertical touch screen with smartphone compatibility. Volvo’s City Safety system is standard, with all the usual advanced driver assistance features plus large-animal detection and scanning for other vehicles at intersections.
Read our in-depth Volvo XC60 first drive Editors' Recommendations Big EVs are almost here: 7 upcoming electric SUVs we’re excited for 2023 Toyota Sequoia supersizes hybrid tech The best SUVs The best electric SUVs Best SUVs under $20,000 Toyota Volvo Cars Toyota calls the Prius "the car that changed an industry," and that's not a far-fetched statement. Although hybrid technology has been around for over a century, the original Prius is responsible for democratizing it.
Well into its fourth generation, the 2021 Prius is still the poster child of the hybrid car segment in many markets, but the range is now broken down into two models. Called Prius, the first is a regular hybrid, meaning the electric motor makes it more efficient but it can't power the car on its own. Named Prius Prime, the second is a plug-in hybrid, so it can be plugged in and its electric motor is powerful enough to move the car on its own for relatively short distances.
Tech features 2020 Toyota Prius Prime Image used with permission by copyright holder Cars With diesel-powered models largely out of the picture, the most fuel-efficient new SUVs available in the U.S. are all hybrids. Electrified technology remains expensive, though, so it's not an option that suits every budget. Luckily, there are some SUVs, such as the affordable and unique 2020 Nissan Kicks, that return excellent fuel economy without needing to carry around a bulky battery pack.
The best mileage overall: 2020 Nissan Kicks The Nissan Kicks gets 33 mpg combined. Image used with permission by copyright holder What’s its mileage: 33 mpg combined, 31 mpg city, 36 mpg highway.
Cars Jeep is more often associated with go-anywhere off-roaders than with fuel-sipping hybrids, but it wants to prove these two types of vehicles aren't mutually exclusive with a gasoline-electric variant of the Wrangler. Called 4xe, it will be capable of driving on electricity alone for short distances when it arrives in the coming months.
Giving the Wrangler electric motors and a battery pack allowed Jeep to turn it into a different kind of off-roader than fans are used to. With a full charge, the Wrangler can explore the great outdoors in almost complete silence; the only noise comes from the tires. And, an electric motor delivers its full torque output as soon as the driver presses the accelerator pedal, so crawling over boulders, logs, or anything else that's in the way is relatively easy.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
