Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Cars News A self-driving Toyota will escort the 2020 Olympic flame in Tokyo By Stephen Edelstein Close Image used with permission by copyright holder Toyota has partnered with organizers to provide transportation at the 2020 Tokyo Olympic and Paralympic Games. The automaker and the Tokyo Olympic organizing committee want to achieve the lowest emissions of any vehicle fleet at any Olympic Games, so Toyota is rolling out an array of battery-electric, plug-in hybrid, and hydrogen fuel-cell vehicles for the job. The 3,700-vehicle fleet will include everything from buses to scooters. Some vehicles may even operate autonomously.
The fleet will include about 500 hydrogen fuel-cell vehicles and 850 battery-electric cars. Toyota claims it’s largest fleet of those vehicles ever assembled for an Olympic Games. Many of the vehicles will be current production models, including the Toyota Mirai fuel-cell sedan and Prius Prime plug-in hybrid, as well as the Sora fuel-cell bus.
Cars and buses will be used to transport people between venues, but Toyota will also help keep people moving once they’ve arrived at a venue. The automaker plans to deploy 300 “personal mobility devices” for use by security and medical staff. These units are configured for both standing and seated riding, and can also be attached to wheelchairs.
Waymo welcomes $2B invetsment to boost self-driving efforts Honda joins GM, Mercedes, Toyota in self-driving group Toyota’s LQ concept has A.I. tech that knows when you’re stressed Toyota will even put some of its recent concept cars into action. A dozen e-Palette electric vehicles will run on a continuous loop within the Olympic and Paralympic Village. Unveiled at CES 2018, the e-Palette is Toyota’s vision of what a vehicle designed purely for ridesharing and delivery services will look like. The e-Palette was designed for autonomous driving, according to Toyota, but will have human operators on board during the Olympics.
The Concept-i — Toyota’s concept car from CES 2017 — will be used in the Olympic torch relay. A small electric car with Lamborghini-like scissor doors, its standout feature at CES was an artificial intelligence (A.I.) interface named Yui that could read people’s emotions. Like the e-Palette, the Concept-i was designed for autonomous driving, but it’s unclear if the car will drive itself during the torch relay. Toyota also developed a futuristic golf cart called the APM for the Olympics. It’s designed to help attendees with special needs get around within Olympic venues.
The 2020 Tokyo Olympics provide a great opportunity for Toyota to show off its technology. Japan’s revolutionary Shinkansen high-speed trains were introduced to the world at the 1964 Tokyo Olympics , after all. But that’s assuming everything goes smoothly. At the 2012 London Olympics, a fleet of hydrogen fuel-cell London taxis had to be trucked 130 miles for refueling — negating any reduction in emissions from the cabs. Toyota has long been a strong proponent of fuel cells, so a similar issue at the 2020 Olympics would be a major embarrassment for the company.
Editors' Recommendations Waymo’s next-gen self-driving tech can see what’s happening 500 meters ahead New Apple self-driving car patent could turn Siri into your personal chauffeur Toyota leapfrogs competition: Level 4 self driving due next summer Toyota’s E-volution continues with 2021 Mirai and 2021 RAV4 Plugin Next-gen Toyota Mirai confirmed despite continuing issues with hydrogen tech News Amazon Tech News Toyota Cars In the world of self-driving cars, team-ups are becoming the norm. Toyota is developing autonomous cars in-house, but it's also working with Uber, and has now forged an alliance with an autonomous-driving startup from China. Pony.ai will work with Toyota to continue to develop of autonomous-driving tech, and find commercial uses for it.
The goal of the partnership is to "provide safe mobility services for all" using autonomous cars, according to a Pony.ai press release, but neither company provided any further details. Pony.ai released a photo of a Lexus RX -- from Toyota's luxury brand -- modified with autonomous-driving hardware, and Automotive News reports this vehicle will be tested on public roads in Beijing.
Cars If self-driving cars become mainstream, it's likely that many of them will be electric. But if no one is driving, will anyone be around to plug them in? Electrify America -- the entity created to spend Volkswagen diesel emissions fines on zero-emission vehicle infrastructure -- is teaming up with charging company Stable Auto to solve that problem. The solution? Robotic charging stations.
Electrify America and Stable plan to open a pilot charging site in San Francisco in early 2020. In addition to being Stable's hometown, the City by the Bay hosts fleets of test vehicles from Waymo and General Motors' Cruise division. Waymo uses Chrysler Pacifica Hybrid plug-in hybrid minivans, and recently added the all-electric Jaguar I-Pace to its fleet. Cruise uses modified Chevrolet Bolt EV electric cars. That should provide a ready source of customers, although neither Waymo nor Cruise has commented on the announcement.
Cars Colorado will adopt California's zero-emission vehicle (ZEV) mandate, which requires automakers to sell battery-electric cars, plug-in hybrids, or hydrogen fuel-cell cars as a certain proportion of their overall sales, or purchase credits from other automakers to offset lower ZEV sales. Forcing automakers to sell ZEVs has helped spur sales in California, and could have the same effect in Colorado.
Colorado announced plans to implement the ZEV mandate in January 2019, initially receiving some pushback from an automaker trade group. But now the state and the auto industry have reached a deal. The Association of Global Automakers and the Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers -- two trade groups that represent 99% of U.S. car sales -- said they had reached an agreement with Colorado on the issue.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
