Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Cars Guides News 2021 Toyota Prius vs. 2021 Toyota Prius Prime By Ronan Glon Close Toyota calls the Prius “the car that changed an industry,” and that’s not a far-fetched statement. Although hybrid technology has been around for over a century , the original Prius is responsible for democratizing it.
Tech features Performance and fuel economy Interior and exterior design Safety Pricing Well into its fourth generation, the 2021 Prius is still the poster child of the hybrid car segment in many markets, but the range is now broken down into two models. Called Prius, the first is a regular hybrid, meaning the electric motor makes it more efficient but it can’t power the car on its own. Named Prius Prime, the second is a plug-in hybrid, so it can be plugged in and its electric motor is powerful enough to move the car on its own for relatively short distances.
Tech features 2020 Toyota Prius Prime Image used with permission by copyright holder We associate the Prius with powertrain technology, not in-car technology, but it scores well in the two departments. Both models come standard with a digital instrument cluster, a 7-inch touchscreen that displays the infotainment system, Apple CarPlay , Android Auto (finally!) and Amazon Alexa compatibility, and a six-speaker sound system.
2023 Toyota Sequoia supersizes hybrid tech The most reliable cars of 2021 2021 Ford F-150 hybrid first drive review: Tech can be tough Upmarket trim levels benefit from more features, like a Qi wireless device charger and an 11.6-inch touchscreen with navigation, a JBL sound system, or both depending on the variant. Motorists can also add niceties like a HomeLink transceiver and a color head-up display (HUD) at an extra cost, or by selecting more expensive trim levels.
Performance and fuel economy 2020 Toyota Prius Image used with permission by copyright holder In its simplest configuration, the Prius is powered by a hybrid system made up of a 1.8-liter, four-cylinder engine, an electric motor, a small lithium-ion battery pack, and a continuously variable transmission (CVT) that spins the front wheels. Its 121-horsepower drivetrain returns 58 mpg in the city, 53 mpg on the highway, and 56 mpg combined when it powers the base L Eco trim, but those figures drop to 54, 50, and 52, respectively, when motorists select one of the more expensive trims. They’re better equipped, inevitably heavier, and consequently less efficient.
Added for the 2020 model year, all-wheel drive brings more changes than merely an additional pair of driven wheels. Toyota added a second electric motor over the rear axle, and it replaced the lithium-ion battery pack with a nickel-metal hybride unit. The trade-off is that fuel economy numbers fall to 52, 48, and 50, respectively.
Zero to 60? Top speed? Come on, it’s a Prius. Put it this way: It’s zippy enough to commute in.
The 121-horsepower plug-in hybrid drivetrain that powers the Prius Prime consists of a 1.8-liter four-cylinder engine and an electric motor that draws power from an 8.8-kilowatt-hour lithium-ion battery pack. Combined, the two power sources give the Prime a very usable 640-mile range, which is far higher than any electric car currently on the market.
 It returns 55 mpg in the city, 53 mpg on the highway, and 54 mpg combined. Alternatively, with the four-cylinder turned off it’s capable of driving on electricity alone for up to 25 miles at speeds of up to 84 mph.
Charging the battery pack takes two hours and 10 minutes when plugging it into a 240-volt outlet, or five and a half hours when using a 120-volt outlet. The motor also harvests energy generated while braking, though this has a minimal effect on range. And, the Prime is exclusively available with front-wheel drive as well as a continuously variable transmission (CVT), so it will quickly get pushed off your shopping list if you’re after all-wheel drive.
Interior and exterior design 1.
2020 Toyota Prius 2.
2020 Toyota Prius Prime Beauty is in the eye of the beholder, and weighing the pros and cons of the Prius’ extroverted design would be venturing into a minefield. What’s important to remember is that Toyota styled the Prius and the Prius Prime differently to help motorists tell them apart. Both have the same silhouette and neither can be mistaken for anything else. They’re largely identical inside, meaning the instrument cluster is a digital unit positioned right in the middle of the dashboard, and the infotainment system is displayed on a color screen on the center stack.
All variants of the Prius offer space for five passengers, though the person sitting in the middle of the second row should plan for shoulder rubbing. Trunk space checks in at 27.4 cubic feet for the L Eco, XLE, and Limited models, 24.6 cubic feet for the LE, LE AWD-e, and XLE AWD-e trims, and 19.8 cubes for the plug-in hybrid Prime.
2021 brings a 2020 Edition model that commemorates the nameplate’s 20th anniversary in the U.S. Limited to 2,020 units, it stands out with black exterior trim, specific emblems, a body-colored rear spoiler, and 17-inch alloy wheels among other visual add-ons. Motorists can choose two colors named supersonic red and wind chill pearl, respectively, and every 2020 Edition model is based on the front-wheel drive XLE trim.
Safety 1.
2020 Toyota Prius 2.
2020 Toyota Prius Prime Safety comes standard regardless of which Prius variant you choose. Both come with eight airbags, a pre-collision system with low-light pedestrian detection, cyclist detection, a lane departure warning system with steering assist, automatic high beams, road sign detection, adaptive cruise control, roadside assistance, and collision notification. Buyers who move up in the trim level hierarchy unlock features like the aforementioned HUD, parking sensors, and a blind spot monitoring system.
Pricing 1.
2020 Toyota Prius 2.
2020 Toyota Prius Prime Toyota charges $24,525 for the most affordable version of the Prius, a trim level called L Eco. The range also includes LE, XLE, and Limited plus a pair of all-wheel-drive models named LE AWD-e and XLE AWD-e, respectively. Plan on spending $27,135 for all-wheel drive and $32,650 for the range-topping Limited model. And, keep in mind none of the aforementioned figures include a mandatory $955 destination charge.
Electrification remains expensive, so the plug-in Prius Prime inevitably costs more than the plug-less Prius. The entry-level LE model starts at $28,220, the midrange XLE costs $30,000, and the Limited is priced at $34,000. Here again, buyers need to factor in a destination charge (which is like shipping and handling for cars).
Editors' Recommendations Toyota joins ‘the Tesla plug’ club Toyota announces site for its first U.S. battery plant Camry vs. Corolla 2021 Honda Pilot vs. 2021 Toyota Highlander The best hybrid SUVs News Toyota Cars Many families need a three-row SUV because it's a packaging solution that provides seating for more than five passengers, loads of cargo space, and strong towing capacity. Many also perform well off the beaten path thanks to the availability of all-wheel drive (AWD) and a raised ride height. The segment is growing and the competition is only getting hotter between these versatile vehicles. The Toyota Highlander and Ford Explorer are household names because of their long-running success in the SUV world. Redesigned for the 2020 model year, both SUVs now offer the latest in tech and safety, and each one has a hybrid variant. Those in the market for a three-row cannot overlook the Highlander and Explorer. But which one is right for you? Keep reading and we’ll help you decide.
Tech features Toyota Highlander Regardless of the trim you get, the Highlander and Highlander Hybrid come well equipped with lots of tech and driver-assistance features. The base, fleet-only L and LE trims come with an 8.0-inch touchscreen (the same as the Explorer), Apple CarPlay, Android Auto, Amazon Alexa compatibility, SiriusXM satellite radio, and five USB ports. The upgraded infotainment system found in the Limited trim adds a navigation system and an 11-speaker JBL audio system. The top system (optional in the Limited and standard on Platinum) adds a large 12.3-inch touchscreen (larger than the Explorer's). There are two sizes for the digital instrument cluster screen; the two base trims get a 4.2-inch screen, but the others get a larger 7.0-inch display that's smaller than the Explorer's. Some other notable tech features include wireless smartphone charging, a rearview mirror camera, and a 10.0-inch head-up display.
Ford Explorer Cars Tesla strongly hinted the Cybertruck won't compete in the same segment of the market as the popular Ford F-150, and whether they'll appeal to the same target audience remains to be seen, but the two pickups will inevitably overlap in many areas. Both were designed to tow, haul, venture off the beaten path, and commute.
Keep in mind Tesla won't begin building the Cybertruck until 2021 at the earliest. You can't walk to the nearest Tesla store and take one for a test drive because it's not in production; we haven't even seen the production version of it yet. The comparison with the F-150 is largely hypothetical, and all specs listed here are subject to change.
Design and tech Cars Subaru's popular Outback and Forester models evolved in a similar way. Both started life as rugged, all-wheel drive station wagons, and they gradually morphed into crossovers to reach a wider audience. While they overlap in some areas, they're different cars positioned in separate segments and each aimed at a unique group of buyers.
Here's how these two mainstays of the Subaru range compare on paper.
Tech features Subaru made a name for itself by offering go-anywhere, all-wheel drive cars, not tech-oriented ones. The base version of the Forester is markedly utilitarian. It comes with a 6.5-inch screen embedded in the center console, a bargain-basement four-speaker sound system, automatic climate control, and very few creature comforts. You'll need to explore the upper echelons of the trim ladder if you require features like navigation displayed on a bigger touchscreen, a push-button ignition, a power-operated tailgate, and a heated steering wheel.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
