Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Cars News Toyota is actively testing a solar-powered Prius to cut the cord By Stephen Edelstein Close Previous Next 1 10 Image used with permission by copyright holder Image used with permission by copyright holder Image used with permission by copyright holder Image used with permission by copyright holder Image used with permission by copyright holder Image used with permission by copyright holder Image used with permission by copyright holder Image used with permission by copyright holder Image used with permission by copyright holder Image used with permission by copyright holder Electric cars produce no “tailpipe” emissions, but the electricity that charges them needs to come from somewhere. Range anxiety and long charging times have kept many car buyers away. At the same time, the overall carbon footprint of electric cars can be lowered by using renewable sources. Toyota is trying to solve both problems by covering a Prius in solar panels.
Tests with a prototype Toyota Prius (actually a Prius Prime plug-in hybrid) began in July. Toyota is working with NEDO and Sharp on the test program, with the latter providing solar panels that cover the hood, roof, rear window, and rear spoiler. The panels are just 0.03 millimeters thick, allowing them to be formed to the shape of the car.
2021 Toyota Prius vs. 2021 Toyota Prius Prime Venus is the only other planet in solar system with active volcanoes 2021 Toyota RAV4 Prime adds fuel efficiency and power in equal measure Toyota already offers a solar roof for the Prius in some markets, but this prototype solar array is a bit more elaborate. It can charge the car’s battery pack while parked or while driving, according to Toyota. That battery pack was enlarged for the test, with extra battery cells in the trunk adding an extra 180 pounds of weight, according to Reuters.
Initial tests with the solar panels found that they were able to add 35 miles of electric range while driving, and 27 miles of range while parked. In addition to the greater surface area of solar panels on the test car, Sharp’s panels are also better at converting the sun’s rays into electricity than the solar roof on the production Prius. They have an efficiency rate of 34%, compared to 22.5% for the system that is currently in production, according to Toyota.
The fact that this solar array can’t even convert half of the sunlight that shines on it into electricity highlights one of the issues with solar power. Another is cost. Putting so many solar panels on a car is very expensive, and means commercialization is likely “years away,” Satoshi Shizuka, the program’s lead engineer, said in an interview with Reuters.
Toyota and other automakers will likely continue to offer solar roofs that contribute a small amount of extra power, but a production car that relies completely on the sun’s energy may not be feasible. There is another way to get a solar-powered car, however. Some public charging stations get their power from solar panels, so plugging into one means getting electricity directly from the sun.
Editors' Recommendations World’s most powerful solar telescope begins science operations Inside the light-speed race to build a solar-powered commuter car JBL’s solar-powered headphones could eliminate the need for recharging Solar-powered Lightyear One claims to break new ground in aerodynamics Europe’s Solar Orbiter has completed testing and is ready to explore the sun News Amazon Tech News Toyota Emerging Tech Zeppelins, the rigid airships most famously epitomized by the Hindenburg, now seem kind of retro, rather than the image of futurity they represented in the 1930s. But they could be about to make a comeback in a big way -- courtesy of a new aluminum-shelled, solar-powered airship that’s being built by the U.K.-based company Varialift Airships.
According to the company’s CEO Alan Handley, the airship will be capable of making a transatlantic flight from the United Kingdom to the United States, consuming just 8% of the fuel of a regular airplane. It will be powered by a pair of solar-powered engines and two conventional jet engines.
Cars Toyota uses hydrogen fuel cells to power everything from ordinary passenger cars to lunar rovers, but it's not stopping there. The Japanese automaker is testing the use of fuel cells to power one of its factories. An experimental fuel cell "generator" -- built using components from the Toyota Mirai sedan -- has been installed at the Honsha Plant, which is located part of the automaker's main Toyota City campus in Japan. The test shows how fuel cells could provide zero emission electricity to buildings as well as vehicles.
The generator uses two complete Mirai fuel cell systems, according to Toyota. Each system includes a fuel cell stack (that's the part that actually turns hydrogen into electricity), a power control unit, and a backup battery. Using components from the Mirai, instead of developing new components from scratch, helps keep costs down, according to Toyota.
Cars Previous Next Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
