Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Cars Mercedes-Benz EQS first drive review: Plush enough to make Tesla owners jealous By Stephen Edelstein Close Stephen Edelstein / Digital Trends A Mercedes-Benz electric sedan was inevitable. The meteoric success of the Tesla Model S, plus stricter European emissions standards gave Mercedes no choice but to meet Tesla on the EV battlefield. But a company that’s been building cars for over 100 years doesn’t rush into anything.
Design and interior Tech, infotainment, and driver assist Driving experience Range, charging, and safety How DT would configure this car Our take Should you get one? The 2022 Mercedes-Benz EQS sedan is our first glimpse at the automaker’s electric future. It heralds a range of electric cars for North America (including an EQS SUV ) and showcases new technology, including the largest infotainment touchscreen ever fitted to a production car. Mercedes didn’t choose the name EQS by accident. “EQ” is the automaker’s electric sub-brand, while “S” signifies that this car is the electric equivalent to Mercedes’ traditional flagship, the S-Class sedan.
The EQS reaches dealerships in the United States later this fall. Mercedes plans to offer a base single-motor EQS 450+ version and a dual-motor EQS 580 model, starting at $103,360 and $120,160 MSRP, respectively. We got to try out both over two days of driving around San Francisco and Silicon Valley.
2024 Mercedes-AMG S63 E Performance first drive review: high-performance plug-in Mercedes-Maybach EQS SUV is old-school luxury — electrified Hyundai Ioniq 6 first drive review: welcome to the future Design and interior The EQS looks like no other Mercedes and, unlike the recently launched BMW iX electric SUV, the styling isn’t just about creating an artificially futuristic look. Mercedes took a holistic approach to efficiency, and it starts with the pill-shaped bodywork. That allows for a drag coefficient of just 0.20, which minimizes aerodynamic drag and helps maximize range.
While it may look unconventional on the outside, on the inside the EQS is every inch a Mercedes. You get leather seats with 10 massage programs, a panoramic roof, and available 64-color ambient lighting that makes the interior look like a futuristic nightclub. If you prefer to be chauffeured, the Pinnacle trim level adds power-adjustable rear seats with heating and ventilation, plus rear USB-C ports and wireless phone charging. Those features are piled on top of a dramatic design. The windshield and doors seem to wrap around the dashboard, while the massive touchscreen appears to float off of it.
The pill-shaped bodywork minimizes aerodynamic drag and helps maximize range.
The stubby hood doesn’t open, so you don’t get a “frunk” like on other EVs. And while it’s billed as a sedan, the EQS actually has a rear hatch, making for a long but narrow cargo area. At 22.0 cubic feet, that affords substantially more cargo space than the internal-combustion Mercedes S-Class sedan.
The EQS and S-Class are pretty much identical in size, with the S-Class measuring slightly longer and the EQS standing a bit taller (likely due to the packaging requirements of the battery pack). Mercedes hasn’t published complete interior dimensions for the EQS, but it does quote identical front legroom to the S-Class, with slightly less front headroom.
Tech, infotainment, and driver assist The EQS raises the bar for infotainment tech with its Mercedes-Benz User Experience (MBUX) Hyperscreen display.
 Standard on the EQS 580 and optional on the EQS 450+, the 56-inch curved OLED display is the largest ever in a production car.
The Hyperscreen actually combines three separate displays, including a 12.3-inch digital instrument cluster, 17.7-inch central touchscreen, and a 12.3-inch touchscreen for the front passenger. Everything is covered by Gorilla Glass with a scratch-resistant coating, and backed by 12 actuators for haptic feedback, eight CPU cores, and 24GB of RAM. Wireless Apple CarPlay and Android Auto are standard, along with a Burmester audio system.
Functions are organized by what Mercedes calls the “Zero Layer” concept. Instead of a home screen with menu icons, the central touchscreen shows navigation maps (with available satellite imagery) by default, with other functions like climate control and audio displayed in smaller boxes below. The passenger screen—which only turns on when someone is sitting in the seat—gets a more conventional layout, while the instrument cluster can be reconfigured to show traditional dials, maps, and other information.
The EQS raises the bar for infotainment tech with its Hyperscreen display.
If this sounds like a lot, that’s because it is. Having so many functions on the screen at once means you don’t have to dig through menus, but we found it still took a bit to locate everything. Some functions, such as drive modes and audio volume, also required using an awkwardly-placed touchpad on the center console. The EQS does have the same natural-language voice control system as other Mercedes models, but we found it to be unusually slow to respond here.
The Hyperscreen itself was very responsive, though, and we liked some of Mercedes’ design choices, such as the pulsating lights that replace the instrument-cluster dials when you switch the EQS into Sport mode. Having a separate screen for the front passenger also makes sense. It lets them fiddle with individual settings more easily, and allows for separate audio streaming to a connected pair of Bluetooth headphones. The EQS can also be equipped with the same augmented-reality head-up display as the S-Class, which projects arrows showing where to turn when using the navigation system.
All EQS models get a standard Driver Assistance Package that includes adaptive cruise control with steering assist, blind-spot monitoring, lane-keep assist, a driver-attention monitor, parking assist, and a surround-view camera system.
Driving experience The base EQS 450+ generates 329 horsepower and 419 pound-feet of torque from its single motor, which powers the rear wheels. The EQS 580 uses one motor to power each axle, enabling all-wheel drive and a total system output of 516 hp and 631 lb-ft of torque. Both versions use the same battery pack, with 107.8 kilowatt-hours of usable capacity.
Mercedes quotes zero to 60 mph times of 5.9 seconds for the EQS 450+ and 4.1 seconds for the EQS 580 (both models are limited to 130 mph). Those acceleration times don’t come close to the quickest Tesla Model S, or the forthcoming Lucid Air Dream Edition , but the numbers don’t tell the whole story.
Mercedes devised some sound effects that would make George Lucas proud.
Standard air suspension gives the EQS the smooth, pothole-erasing ride you should expect from a big luxury sedan. Yet this car doesn’t flinch when you show it a corner. Mercedes also gave the EQS the rear-wheel steering system from the S-Class, which makes it surprisingly agile. The floor-mounted battery pack keeps most of the weight low, giving the EQS a sure-footed feel. While the EQS did feel somewhat floaty in its default driving mode, switching to Sport mode cured that, without any noticeable impact on ride quality.
Like all electric cars, the instant torque on the EQS also makes it feel quicker than the numbers suggest. Even the base EQS 450+ will throw you back in your seat, and instead of the tired old internal-combustion soundtrack, Mercedes devised some sound effects that would make George Lucas proud. It’s been said that many cars accelerate like spaceships, but the EQS may be the first that sounds like one. Tesla can keep its fart noises.
Range, charging, and safety Official range figures are 350 miles for the EQS 450+ and 340 miles for the EQS 580 (efficiency ratings weren’t available at the time of publication). That’s less than the longest-range versions of the Model S or Lucid Air, but more than the similarly-priced Audi E-Tron GT and Porsche Taycan.
The EQS can charge at 9.6 kilowatts on a 240-volt Level 2 AC source. That’s a lower rate than some other EVs, and means a 10% to 100% charge takes just over 11 hours, according to Mercedes. The EQS is also equipped for DC fast charging at 200kW, allowing for a 10% to 80% charge in 30 minutes, per Mercedes. Owners can use Plug & Charge to start a charging session by simply plugging in (after pre-setting a payment method), and Mercedes is offering an unlimited number of free 30-minute charging sessions on the Electrify America network for two years.
Crash-test results from the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety (IIHS) and National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) aren’t available yet. The EQS is a new model, and high-priced cars like this generally aren’t a priority for the safety organizations.
The EQS gets the same four-year, 50,000-mile, new-vehicle warranty as other Mercedes models, plus a 10-year, 155,000-mile, battery warranty. That exceeds the maximum eight-year, 150,000-mile, battery warranty Tesla offers for the Model S.
How DT would configure this car Our ideal configuration would start with the base EQS 450+ model. While it does sacrifice all-wheel drive and 1.8 seconds in the zero to 60 mph sprint, the single-motor 450+ gains 10 miles of range, and offers more-than-adequate performance, in our opinion.
However, the EQS 450+ doesn’t get the Hyperscreen as standard equipment, so we’d add that (for $7,200) along with active ambient lighting ($590). We’d also upgrade from the entry-level Premium version to the Exclusive, netting massaging front seats, a head-up display, and four-zone automatic climate control for an additional $3,400. Add in the mandatory $1,050 destination charge, and you end up with an MSRP of just under $115,000.
Our take The EQS is a significant step in the evolution of electric cars. Unlike most EVs from established luxury brands, it feels new and different, rather than just an electric version of an existing model. It also provides an unmatched level of luxury, truly making it the electric equivalent of Mercedes’ flagship S-Class.
In some areas, the EQS surpasses its gasoline counterpart. The Hyperscreen infotainment system offers more of everything, and the EQS is also nicer to drive than the S-Class. It has all of the smoothness and refinement of that sedan, but with even better handling and the EV party trick of instant torque. The EQS’ back seats didn’t feel as spacious, thanks to a lower roof line and higher seat placement, but we’ll have to wait for official measurements to confirm that.
The Tesla Model S may still win on range and performance, but the EQS has it beat on comfort and amenities. Consequently, the Mercedes feels more worthy of its six-figure price tag. The Lucid Air also promises a luxurious cabin, along with up to 520 miles of range, but it’s only just going into production, and thus remains a bit of an unknown.
Some of Mercedes’ German rivals have launched high-end electric sedans of their own, but the Audi E-Tron GT and Porsche Taycan fall short on range, and emphasize performance over luxury.
Should you get one? Yes. The EQS is the future of luxury.
Editors' Recommendations Mercedes-AMG EQE SUV first drive review: a better electric SUV Mercedes-Benz Vision One-Eleven concept looks to the past for inspiration Mercedes-Benz EQE SUV first drive review: ’90s look, cutting-edge tech Mercedes is finally bringing an electric van to the U.S.
Mercedes EV charging hubs are coming to North America by the end of the decade Cars If you want to see just how quickly the electric car landscape has changed over the past few years, take a look at the redesigned 2023 Kia Niro EV.
When the first-generation Niro EV launched for the 2019 model year (following hybrid and plug-in hybrid Niro variants), it was a pretty big deal. The Niro was Kia’s first EV not based on a conventional gasoline model, and the first intended for high sales volumes.
The second-generation 2023 Niro EV boasts more tech, more space, and more extroverted styling than its predecessor, but it’s still very much in the shadow of the Kia EV6. Once Kia’s main EV attraction, the Niro is being refocused as a more affordable option to take on the likes of the Chevrolet Bolt EV/Bolt EUV, Volkswagen ID.4, and Nissan Leaf.
Kia plans to offer the Niro EV in trim levels named Wind and Wave, but hasn’t released pricing for either. Note that the previous-generation 2022 Niro EV started at $41,245; the new model could see a price increase because of its updates. And because it’s assembled in South Korea, the 2023 Niro EV won’t qualify for the revamped federal EV tax credit, Kia has confirmed.
Design and interior Like the previous generation, the Niro is part of a three-pronged lineup that also includes the Niro Hybrid and Niro PHEV (plug-in hybrid models). All three maintain the tall-wagon shape of the first-generation Niro, but with much bolder styling.
Where the previous Niro was a wishy-washy mix of car and SUV styling elements, the 2023 Niro is the result of the same fearless design department that produced the EV6 and the 2023 Kia Sportage. The traditional automotive “face” was rearranged with a visor-like element, protruding grille, and hexagonal lighting elements. Contrasting trim panels break up the profile view, and conceal “Air Blade” elements around the taillights that, Kia claims, reduce aerodynamic drag.
Kia used sustainable materials to further decrease the Niro EV’s environmental impact.
Cars Mercedes-Benz is continuing to expand its EV lineup, this time with a model aimed at (wealthy) families.
As the name states, the 2023 Mercedes-Benz EQS SUV is an SUV derivative of the EQS sedan. With the EQS sedan positioned as the electric analog to the Mercedes S-Class, the EQS SUV is the electric version of the GLS-Class. And like that vehicle, the EQS SUV is available with up to seven seats across three rows.
That makes the EQS SUV an important vehicle not just for Mercedes, but for the cause of EV adoption in general. While the Tesla Model X and Rivian R1S also offer three rows for family-hauling duty, there’s a lot more room in the market for another entry. Given the popularity of equivalent gasoline luxury SUVs like the GLS, Land Rover Range Rover, and Cadillac Escalade, the EQS SUV arrives not a moment too soon.
The EQS SUV is scheduled to reach U.S. dealerships this fall in three guises. The base rear-wheel-drive EQS 450+ starts at $105,550 with destination, while the all-wheel drive EQS 450 4Matic and EQS 580 4Matic start at $108,550 and $127,100, respectively. Although it will be built in Alabama, the EQS SUV won’t qualify for the revised federal EV tax credit because it exceeds the $80,000 price cap for SUVs.
Design and interior A defining feature of Mercedes’ EQ lineup is aerodynamic bodywork aimed at maximizing range. The typical SUV is not aerodynamically ideal, but Mercedes managed to achieve an impressively low drag coefficient for an SUV — at 0.26, it’s close to the Toyota Prius. But function clearly took precedence over form. Mercedes deserves credit for not going in the polarizing direction BMW did with its two-row iX SUV, but the EQS SUV looks like a melting scoop of ice cream.
More disappointing is the third row, which should be the EQS SUV’s defining feature, but seems more like a useless afterthought. Adults will find it difficult to insert themselves into the third-row seats, let alone tolerate riding in them. As in most three-row vehicles, the rear seats also pretty much eliminate cargo space. And if you want to fold them down to create more cargo room, you’ll have to do it manually as Mercedes didn’t include a power-folding system — a bit disappointing for a six-figure car. The EQS SUV also lacks a frunk; like the EQS sedan, the hood is sealed.
The EQS SUV looks like a melting scoop of ice cream.
Cars Mercedes-Benz wants its EQ sub-brand to be an all-electric counterpart to its current lineup of gasoline luxury cars, and it’s working toward that goal by starting at opposite ends of the price spectrum and working toward the middle.
Where the EQS sedan and SUV are the flagships of the lineup, and the EQB serves as an entry-level offering, the 2023 Mercedes-Benz EQE sedan aims for the middle of the market. It’s pitched as an electric equivalent of the Mercedes E-Class, one of the automaker’s bread-and-butter models. And like the E-Class, the EQE will compete against sedans from Mercedes’ German rivals, such as the Audi e-tron GT, BMW i4, and Porsche Taycan. It will likely be cross-shopped against the Genesis Electrified G80, Lucid Air, and Tesla Model S as well.
The EQE sedan arrives at U.S. dealerships in late 2022 in four guises: base rear-wheel drive EQE 350+, all-wheel drive EQE 350 4Matic and EQE 500 4Matic, and an AMG EQE performance version. Mercedes hasn’t disclosed pricing for any of these models, but the EQE 350 4Matic we tested for this first drive will likely be a mid-tier trim level. Like its EQS sibling, the EQE will also get an SUV variant, which will launch sometime after the sedan version.
Design and interior The EQE has the same lozenge-like shape as the EQS sedan, which is dictated by aerodynamics. The appeal of the design is up for debate, but the smooth shape reduces aerodynamic drag, which helps improve efficiency and range. Under the skin, the EQE is also based on the same EVA2 architecture as the EQS sedan.
But while the two EQ sedans look similar at first glance, the EQE is a bit smaller than its sibling. It’s 10.6 inches shorter than the EQS sedan, with a 3.5-inch shorter wheelbase. Rear-seat passengers might notice the difference, but like its gasoline E-Class counterpart, the EQE is aimed more at drivers than passengers. Its tidier proportions were also a bit more pleasing to our eyes, making the EQE look sleeker than its sibling.
The interior design is minimalist while still maintaining functionality.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
