Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Cars News Mercedes-Benz’s new ‘Hyperscreen’ dashboard is a dazzling 56-inch OLED panel By Stephen Edelstein Close Ahead of CES 2021 , were getting a look at the future of cars — and it’s gigantic.
Mercedes-Benz is giving its next-generation electric car an advanced infotainment system.
 Dubbed MBUX Hyperscreen, it’s based around one massive screen that runs from one side of the dashboard to the other. The system debuts on the Mercedes-Benz EQS sedan, which is scheduled to start production later this year.
Razer’s high-tech face mask filters air and amplifies your voice, Bane-style LG TVs at CES 2021: OLED gets a brightness boost Sony built a drone that’s beefy enough to carry an Alpha series DSLR MBUX is short for “Mercedes-Benz User Experience,” the infotainment system Mercedes launched in 2018 and now uses in everything from luxury cars to cargo vans.
 The Hyperscreen version has little in common with current iterations of MBUX beyond a name, however. Its 56-inch curved OLED display is the largest in a production car, and it’s backed by eight CPU cores, 24 gigabytes of RAM , 46.6GB per second of RAM memory bandwidth, and 12 actuators for haptic feedback. The screen glass is also double coated to reduce reflection and ease cleaning, Mercedes noted, while brightness is automatically adjusted using a camera and light sensor.
Mercedes-Benz The screen’s size also allows for separate displays for the driver and front passenger (the latter turns off when the front seat isn’t occupied). Mercedes also eliminated sub-menus, displaying all features in what the automaker calls a “situational and contextual way.” That’s partly the result of research into usage patterns of the first-generation MBUX system. For example, Mercedes found that navigation was one of the most-used functions, so designers placed that at the center of the screen.
The MBUX Hyperscreen also uses artificial intelligence to predict what users want, according to Mercedes. The system can take note of when drivers habitually do things at certain times — whether it’s calling the same person, or activating the car’s hot stone massage function — and make suggestions based on those habits. It’s not just functions inside the car, either: the system can learn the locations of steep driveways or speed bumps, and automatically raise the suspension to clear them.
Previous Next 1 5 Mercedes-Benz Mercedes-Benz Mercedes-Benz Mercedes-Benz Image used with permission by copyright holder MBUX Hyperscreen will launch in the Mercedes-Benz EQS sedan — the automaker’s upcoming flagship electric car. The sedan should enter production in Germany sometime in the next few months, while an SUV version is scheduled to start production in Alabama in 2022. Mercedes has said it will launch 10 new electric cars under its EQ sub-brand by 2025, but the MBUX Hyperscreen system will likely be reserved for high-end models.
If you’re looking for more information on what to expect at CES , you can take a look at our predictions for cars and car tech to come from the big tech extravaganza.
Editors' Recommendations Mercedes-Benz Vision EQXX concept is a luxury EV with a 621-mile range Razer’s immersive gaming chair wraps your head in a 60-inch rollable OLED screen LG’s swanky, futuristic bed concept has a pop-up transparent OLED TV on the end TCL Wearable Display squeezes a giant HD TV into a pair of sunglasses These tunable eyeglasses let you adjust focus on demand News Artificial Intelligence Tech News Audio / Video TCL put itself on the map in the U.S. when it launched its first 6-series TV in 2018. Along came its 8K mini-LED series in 2019, then it dropped another bomb last year when it brought mini-LED to its 6-series -- meanwhile, other brands still hadn't come forward with their own mini-LED sets. I think it’s fair to say the stakes are pretty high for TCL this year at CES 2021. Can they score another first? Spoiler alert: Yes What's new for TCL 6-Series Let’s start with the 6-Series. In case you don’t recall, TCL brought out the 6-Series in 2018 and it was a hit. In 2019 the 6-Series got quantum dots and performed even better. Then in 2020, TCL gave it mini-LED backlight technology and it took another big step up. All the while, prices for this hot TV series stayed low. So, what’s new for the 6-Series in 2021? One number followed by one letter: 8K Cars Samsung wants to turn your next smart car’s cabin into a digital cockpit. At CES 2021, the South Korea tech giant is showcasing a concept tech that imagines equipping smart cars with both swiveling screens and 5G connectivity.
Simply called the Digital Cockpit, the new tech is Samsung’s attempt at securing a spot in the next generation of smart and largely driverless cars. The group of wide, high-resolution displays lets you perform all sorts of tasks you wouldn’t normally expect to accomplish from the cramped interior of your vehicle, like turning it into a mobile office, watching movies, and playing games on a panoramic 49-inch screen.
Wearables Have you ever wondered what your pet is trying to tell you? This collar may hold the answer. It's one of the more intriguing pet-specific gadgets at CES 2021. CES has always been packed with pet-products that make caring for your pet more convenient, but few have had the potential impact of Petpuls' A.I.-powered smart collar.
This collar uses voice recognition technology to detect and track five different emotional states. It analyzes the tone and pitch of your dog's bark to tell you whether your pup feels happy, anxious, angry, sad, or relaxed -- it's just missing "squirrel." If you are getting Up vibes, you aren't alone.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
