Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Cars News Alexa and Google Home-compatible JuicePlan simplifies EV charging at home By Bruce Brown Close Previous Next 1 3 Image used with permission by copyright holder Image used with permission by copyright holder.
JuicePlan , eMotorWerks’ new residential electric vehicle (EV) level 2 charging service subscription plan, is now available in parts of California, New York, New Jersey, and Maryland.
JuicePlan, which simplifies EV home charger selection and installation, has two components: The JuiceBox Pro 40 smart home charger and JuiceNet, eMotorWerks’ smart grid charging platform. JuicePlan subscriptions start at $19 per month and include installation by a locally certified electrician. Under the new plan, there is no down payment, and the first month of the subscription is free.
Ford EV drivers can use 12,000 Tesla Superchargers starting in 2024 How to charge your electric car at home This EV charging tech does the job as you drive Consumer confusion about EV charging at home was the impetus for JuicePlan, according to eMotorwerks.
“There’s a continued need to democratize access to electrified mobility globally. One of the barriers we’ve found to greater adoption is the selection and installation of an EV charging system at home, where the vast majority of vehicle charging takes place today,” said Valery Miftakhov, eMotorWerks CEO and founder. “Our hope is that creating a subscription option for smart charging to existing EV owners or those that are considering an electric vehicle will accelerate EV adoption in the U.S.” Previous Next 1 2 Image used with permission by copyright holder Image used with permission by copyright holder The JuiceBox Pro 40 is a Wi-Fi-enabled 40AH Level 2 smart EV charging station with a 24-foot charging cable. The JuiceBox’s water- and fire-resistant case has LED indicators for power, connectivity, and charging status. The JuiceBox Pro 40 is compatible with both Amazon Alexa and Google Home , so you can use voice commands to start or stop EV charging from inside your home.
With the JuicePlan’s JuiceNet mobile app or JuiceNet online dashboard, EV owners can control and monitor charging remotely. In areas with time-of-use charging, where usage rates vary depending on usage levels during different periods, JuicePlan subscribers can schedule their EV charging to take advantage of when the rates are lowest.
The app and dashboard also support notifications for the start and end of charging, JuiceBox offline and online status, and when the EV is fully charged. In addition, owners can view real-time and historical charging data.
The price of the charger is included with the JuicePlan subscription, along with the app, dashboard, and home installation. If you’d prefer to buy the charger outright, the JuiceBox Pro 40 is available for purchase from eMotorWerks for $549. In some areas in the U.S., the purchase price includes installation by a certified electrician. By offering the JuicePlan monthly subscription service with installation included, eMotorWerks is taking the initial cost and hassle of setting up for Level 2 home charging largely out of the equation.
eMotorWerks plans to expand the JuicePlan subscription to more locations in the U.S. You can check your location or sign up to receive a notification when the plan is available in your area by filling out the eligibility form.
Editors' Recommendations Charging your EV is about to get easier, as carmakers team up to build 30,000 chargers Mercedes EV charging hubs are coming to North America by the end of the decade The best EV charging apps help you find the right station for any electric car Why do EVs charge slowly? Lithium battery limits explained The Google Pixel 6 and 6 Pro barely charge any faster than the Pixel 5 News Smart Home Tech News Outdoors We've all felt that sense of panic when the power goes out: The house goes dark, your phone only has 3% battery, and dinner’s stopped bubbling on the stove. If a global pandemic has taught us anything anew, it’s that being prepared for emergencies and the unexpected is crucial. That's even more the case if you live in an area of the country where hurricanes, earthquakes, or tornadoes could rip your stability apart at any moment.
Generark, which has just launched its HomePower 2 on Kickstarter, is an backup generator meant for emergency situations. This tall power tower gives you myriad ways to connect, including plugging in AC-powered devices (110 volts) and various DC outputs, including USB-A, USB-C, and a car outlet.
Cars This story is part of our continuing coverage of CES 2020, including tech and gadgets from the showroom floor.
EVs are everywhere at CES 2020, but the stations that charge them are are seldom worthy of your attention. Typically, they’re simply utilitarian plastic boxes with rubber cables trailing out of them. The best they can do is stay out of the way and quietly fuel up the real stars of the show.
Deals Amazon's year-end smart home device deal prices may not be quite as low as during Black Friday and Cyber Monday, but you still can save on a good selection of smart home products, especially the most popular items with Alexa-compatible Echo and Ring devices.
As 2019 heads towards the end, there's still time to finish tasks and check off some of the goals you set for yourself for the year. If smart home setups were part of your 2019, there's enough time to equip your home with smart devices to protect your family and property, to boost your home entertainment capacity, and to make life a little more convenient.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
