Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Deals Amazon cuts prices of ChargePoint, JuiceBox, and Siemens home EV chargers By Bruce Brown Close As we get closer to Prime Day , Amazon continues to discount smart home devices of all varieties. Amazon cut the prices on ChargePoint, JuiceBox, and Siemens Level 2 electric vehicle (EV) home chargers to help plug-in vehicle drivers recharge their car and SUV batteries much faster than plugging into a regular home electrical outlet.
ChargePoint Level 2 Home EV Charger – hardwired, 18-foot cable— $130 off ChargePoint Level 2 Home EV Charger – plug-in, 18-foot cable– $140 off ChargePoint Level 2 Home EV Charger – plug-in, 25-foot cable– $150 off JuiceBox Pro 40 Smart Level 2 EV Charger, 24-foot cable– $70 off Siemens US2 VersiCharge Universal (VC30GRYU) Level 2 EV charger, 20-foot cable– $52 off We’ve found the best discounts on Level 2 home EV charger on Amazon and put them all in one place. The chargers vary in power, ranging from 30 to 40 amps, in the length of the charging cables, and connection method to your electrical service — plug-in or hardwired. If you’ve been planning to invest in a Level 2 charger for your home or have gotten tired of the long recharge times when you plug into a regular 110- to 120-volt outlet, these five deals can help you save up to $150.
ChargePoint Level 2 Home EV Charger – hardwired, 18-foot cable— $130 off Previous Next 1 3 Image used with permission by copyright holder Image used with permission by copyright holder Image used with permission by copyright holder ChargePoint’s Level 2 EV home chargers are 240-volt 32-amp stations that charge your vehicle up to six times faster than plugging it into a regular wall outlet. When you plug in to one of the ChargePoint models, your car adds up to 25 miles of driving range per hour. You can use the ChargePoint app to time your home charging when rates are low if your power company offers time-of-use billing. The app also accesses ChargePoint’s nationwide network of public chargers. As with all ChargePoint home EV chargers, you can control this model with Alexa voice commands.
This ChargePoint model is hardwired and must be installed by a licensed electrician. Unlike the plug-in stations, which must be installed indoor, you can have the hardwired model installed inside or outside your home. This model comes with an 18-foot cable.
Normally priced at $649, the hardwired ChargePoint Level 2 Home EV Charger is $519 during this sale. If you want a Level 2 EV charger, especially if you want an outside installation, take advantage of this discounted price.
ChargePoint Level 2 Home EV Charger – plug-in, 18-foot cable– $140 off Previous Next 1 3 Image used with permission by copyright holder Image used with permission by copyright holder Image used with permission by copyright holder The plug-in ChargePoint Level 2 EV chargers cost $50 more than the hardwired models, but the advantage of a plug-in is you can take it with you if you move. You’ll still need to have an electrician install a NEMA 6-50 240-volt outlet in which to plug the ChargePoint, but if you want to remove the charger for any reason, all you have to do is unplug it. The EV charging rate is identical to the hardwired version, so you can figure on up to 25 miles of added range per hour of charging.
Usually $699, the plug-in ChargePoint Level 2 Home EV Charger with an 18-foot cable is just $559 for this sale. If you prefer the ability to move the Charger when you change homes, or even if want to use it in a vacation home (with the correct installed outlet), the plug-in version gives the added flexibility. The only potential downside is the plug-in must be installed inside, usually in a garage.
ChargePoint Level 2 Home EV Charger – plug-in, 25-foot cable– $150 off Previous Next 1 3 Image used with permission by copyright holder Image used with permission by copyright holder Image used with permission by copyright holder This plug-in ChargePoint Level 2 EV charger is identical to the previous model, but it comes with a 25-foot charging cable. All other specifications are the same with both plug-in chargers, but if you have to install the charger or park your EV further away than you can reach with 18-foot cable, this model adds seven more feet.
Regularly priced $749, the plug-in ChargePoint Level 2 Home EV Charger with a 25-foot cable is $599 during this sale.
JuiceBox Pro 40 Smart Level 2 EV Charger, 24-foot cable– $70 off Previous Next 1 3 Image used with permission by copyright holder Image used with permission by copyright holder Image used with permission by copyright holder The JuiceBox Pro 40 Level 2 EV charger is a 40-amp plug-in model with a 24-foot cable. The JuiceBox plugs into to a NEMA 14-50 standard RV power outlet and can be used indoor or outside with its waterproof and fireproof metal case. With the proper adapter cable, you can also plug the JuiceBox into a household dryer outlet. You can use the JuiceBox website or smartphone app to view real-time charging status as well as Amazon Alexa voice commands to start or stop charging, check the status, or inquire about the number of miles added during the current charging session.
Ordinarily $619, the JuiceBox Pro 40 Level 2 EV charger is $549 for this sale. If you need want the flexibility of taking your charger with you to plug in to RV stations and more, this is an excellent opportunity to buy this model at a reduced price.
Siemens US2 VersiCharge Universal (VC30GRYU) Level 2 EV charger, 20-foot cable– $52 off Previous Next 1 3 Image used with permission by copyright holder Image used with permission by copyright holder Image used with permission by copyright holder Siemens VersiCharge 30-amp Level 2 EV charger can be installed inside or outside and plugs into a standard 240-volt NEMA 6-50 dryer outlet. You can use a touch menu on the front of the Siemens weatherproof case to pause charging or select a two, four, six, or eight-hour delay to time the charging when the rates are low. You can also adjust the power setting from 1.8 kWh to the maximum 7.2 kWh depending on your vehicle’s requirements. Charging at the maximum power adds up to 22 miles of range per hour.
Instead of the usual $549 price, Amazon cut the Siemens US2 VeriCharge Level 2 EV charger to just $497 during this sale. If you want a Level 2 charger with flexible power settings that can be used in either inside or outdoors locations at a great price, this charge is an excellent deal.
Editors' Recommendations Ring doorbell, security camera, and alarm kit prices cut for Prime Day Instant Air Purifier just got its first price cut — for Amazon Prime Day 4th-gen Amazon Echo gets big price cut in early Prime Day deal Amazon cuts the price on Fire HD 8 Tablet and Show Mode charging dock bundle Amazon cuts the price on Ring Alarm home security system for Labor Day Cars Deals Amazon Amazon Prime Day Smart Home Walmart dropped a round of serious price cuts on Google Home smart home devices for its Labor Day sales event. It's been just a month since Walmart's last major sales push for Google devices during Prime Day 2019. Amazon also has good deals on smart speakers and smart displays.
We've found the best discounts on Google Home smart speakers and smart display plus two Google Home smart kits, one for smart lighting and the other to set up a smart TV in your home. The common factor with all of these deals is their compatibility with the Google Assistant digital voice assistant. Whether you are curious to see what smart home devices are about, adding to an existing configuration, or want to make life a bit more convenient, these five deals can help you save up to $50.
Deals Now that the Prime Day tsunami has receded, we're finding exciting deals that prove you don't have to wait for monster sales events to get excellent prices. Checking smart home device prices today, we discovered what amount to buy-one-get-one-free (BOGO) deals for the Amazon Echo Dot and the Google Home Mini.
The Echo Dot and the Google Home Mini are stand-alone smart speakers. They can serve as able digital voice assistants even if you never add another smart home device. If you decide it's time to check out the convenience, entertainment, security, and cost-savings advantages of smart home networks, the Mini and Dot are all you need to control a fully outfitted smart home for their respective systems. In this sense, these small, versatile devices deliver front-end and back- end value.
Deals Summers are great for backyard cookouts, going to the beach, or for any outdoor adventure you can think of under the sun. This is the time where we can go outside in carefree and comfortable outfits rather than having to put on layer upon layer. Then again, it's another story when the temperature has gone too far up and you find yourself seeking ways to just cool off and take a break from sweating. Prime Day may have come and gone but Amazon still has cool deals up for grabs. Keep your cool with the Honeywell Portable Air Conditioner (MN12CESBB) that is currently selling for $115 below its typical list price of $550.
For $434, you can beat the summer heat with not just one but three appliances in one. More than a sleek portable air conditioner that runs with a 12,000 BTU, the Honeywell MN12CESBB is also a dehumidifier and a fan that can cool rooms up to 350 to 450 square feet. The dehumidifier works wonders on any humid day, as it can remove up to 66 pints of moisture a day, thanks to the self-evaporation system that allows continuous and bucketless operation. And you can count on the fan to circulate air around the room before it gets too stuffy.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
