Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Tesla Supercharger Reset Screen in Tesla Tesla Phone Tesla Roadster Tesla Model X vs Tesla Model Y Tesla Optimus Tesla Destination Chargers Home Cars News Tesla gives the Model S over 1,000 hp and a spaceship-like steering wheel By Ronan Glon Close Released in 2012, the Model S is the oldest member of the Tesla range. It’s about to look a lot newer than its age suggests thanks to a much-needed update that brings a fully redesigned interior and a lot more power.
Not much has changed on the outside, and the sedan remains recognizable as a Model S. Look closely and you might notice stylists gave it a nip-and-tuck that brings a redesigned front bumper, small aerodynamic tweaks out back, and new wheels. Visually, it takes a well-trained eye to tell the latest evolution of the S apart from its predecessor.
The evolutionary updates are only skin-deep; The interior is a revolution. Tesla boldly replaced the round steering wheel with a rectangular unit that reminds us of an airplane’s yoke. It looks cool, and it’s unique on the new-car market, but there might be a good reason for that. Think of how many times you put your hands on the upper part of your car’s steering wheel. Time will tell if this is the steering wheel of the future, or if it’s an annoying gimmick.
Tesla launches more affordable Model S and Model X, but there’s a catch Tesla recalls 363,000 of its vehicles over safety issue Tesla recalls 130,000 U.S. vehicles over touchscreen safety issue Another noteworthy change in the driver’s line of sight is that there are no stalks on the steering column. The Mercedes-Benz-sourced gear selector is finally gone, and the turn signal stalk has been replaced by buttons on the left side of the steering wheel. Switches on the opposite side let the driver honk the horn and activate the wipers.
Previous Next 1 8 Tesla Tesla Tesla Image used with permission by copyright holder Image used with permission by copyright holder Image used with permission by copyright holder Tesla Image used with permission by copyright holder The digital instrument cluster remains, and the driver now has an unobstructed view of it, but the tablet-like, portrait-style touchscreen that the Model S popularized is replaced by a 17-inch landscape-oriented unit similar to the one found in the Model 3 and the Model Y.
 It displays the latest version of Tesla’s infotainment system with a 2200×1300 resolution. Owners willing to pay for connectivity can use the screen to stream videos and play games.
Speaking of games, the back seat might be the best place to travel in. The small screen that Tesla added to the rear part of the center console packs 10 teraflops of processing power, a number the firm claims is on par with the newest gaming consoles , and it’s not wrong.
Sony’s PlayStation 5 offers 10.28 teraflops of processing power, while the Xbox Series X reportedly goes up to 12. The rear-seat passengers can play a variety of games using wireless controllers.
When it went on sale, the Model S landed in a segment of one. The competition is heating up, Porsche notably entered the segment with the Taycan , and Mercedes-Benz is planning a competitor named EQS, and most of its rivals are putting a strong focus on performance. Tesla fired back by releasing the Plaid model it has talked about for years. Pegged at the top of the Model S range, it receives three electric motors that join forces to zap the four wheels with 1,020 horsepower. Tesla quotes a 1.99-second sprint from zero to 60 mph, which is shockingly quick, a top speed of 200 mph, and up to 390 miles of driving range.
Surprisingly, an even quicker model named Plaid+ is on its way with over 520 miles of range. Full details about this variant will be released closer to its on-sale date. At the bottom end of the line-up, the Long Range model carries on with 412 miles of range, a 155-mph top speed, and a zero-to-60-mph time of 3.1 seconds, which is plenty quick.
Tesla charges $79,990 for the Model S Long Range, $119,990 for the Plaid, and $139,990 for the Plaid+. Buyers are no longer eligible to claim federal incentives, but some will be able to request tax breaks at the state level.
Looking ahead, the Model X will receive the same interior and powertrain upgrades as the Model S.
Editors' Recommendations Volkswagen ID.4 vs Tesla Model Y Ford EV drivers can use 12,000 Tesla Superchargers starting in 2024 Tesla to fix window software on 1M of its U.S. cars Watch Elon Musk’s high-speed start to Tesla’s Model S Plaid delivery event 2020 Tesla Model S vs. 2020 Tesla Model 3 Tech News Tesla Cars Tesla’s Model Y is an impressive electric compact crossover that offers a range of up to 326-miles on its Long Range variant. For the performance-focused, the Model Y offers a top speed of 155 mph and a 0-60 mph rating of 3.5-seconds if you select the Performance configuration. For those looking for alternatives, there are a few other electric vehicles on the road that continue to boast a bit of extra storage and space without hitting full-SUV status. Here are the best Model Y alternatives that you might want to look into purchasing.
Ford Mustang Mach-E Let’s begin this list with one of the best electric vehicles you can currently purchase, the Ford Mustang Mach-E. The Mach-E is Ford’s first vehicle purpose-built from the ground up to run on an electric drivetrain, and with a brand name such as Mustang attached to it, you expect something extraordinary. The exciting news is that you won’t be disappointed; this vehicle starts at $42,895 and features a range of 300 miles on a single charge. Configured with the GT option, the Mustang Mach-E can even obtain a 0-60 mph rating of 3.5 seconds. A high-tech opportunity, the Ford Mustang Mach-E is a ‘must consider’ option when shopping for Tesla Model X alternatives.
Chevrolet Bolt Cars Tesla has agreed to recall around 135,000 of its electric vehicles to fix a safety-related issue with the touchscreen.
Affected vehicles include Model S sedans model years 2012 through 2018, and Model X SUVs model years 2016 through 2018.
Computing Tesla's newly redesigned Model S sedan for 2021 could be the perfect road trip companion. Alongside a top cruising speed of 200 miles per hour, you're also getting the power of Sony's PlayStation 5 inside your ride to keep you entertained for the entire journey.
In its press announcement in late January, Tesla didn't reveal which processor or GPU will be powering its 2021 Model S, but we are now learning that the rig could be powered by the same AMD graphics architecture found across game consoles and PCs. A leaked schematic posted by Patrick Schur revealed Tesla could be using AMD's Navi 23 graphics processor inside the new Model S, which would mean that the car would share the same RDNA 2 architecture as some popular gaming systems.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
