Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Cars News The gas-guzzling Cadillac Escalade is going all-electric with the IQ By Christian de Looper Close It looks the gas-guzzling Escalade is headed for a more eco-friendly future.
General Motors has announced that it’s working on an all-electric version of the large SUV set to be called the Escalade IQ.
Very little about the Escalade IQ is known at this point, apart from the fact that it exists and that it will be called the IQ. Presumably, the new SUV will be built on GM’s Ultium platform, which is the platform underpinning the Chevrolet Equinox and Silverado, along with the GMC Hummer EV.
The Escalade IQ will join GM’s other electric cars in the Cadillac lineup, including the Lyriq SUV and the luxurious Celestiq. And, it’s another step in GM’s plan to make all of Cadillac’s cars electric by 2030.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Depending on when the Escalade IQ comes out, it could be one of only a handful of electric SUVs. The upcoming Kia EV9 is set to be released later this year, and as such will beat the IQ to market — but there’s a need for more electric SUVs, especially in the U.S. where large cars are much better sellers. Apart from the EV9, the IQ will join the more expensive Rivian R1S.
 It’s likely that the Escalade IQ will be closer in price to the Rivian than the EV9 , especially considering the fact that the Hummer EV starts at an eye-watering $111,000.
2025 Cadillac Escalade IQ: price, release date, design, specs Everything is bigger in Cadillac’s electric Escalade IQ Cadillac Lyriq first drive review: Electric manifesto Of course, because so little is known about the IQ, it’s entirely possible that it’ll be relatively different than the combustion engine model, beyond just the drivetrain. Many carmakers are using electrification as an excuse to radically change the designs and features on offer by their cars. And, for the most part, that has been successful.
The Ford Mustang Mach-E is a Mustang in name only, but it’s one of the better-selling electric.
The Kia EV6 and the Hyundai Ioniq 5 are radically different in design than other cars in their respective brands’ lineups, but they’re also among the better-reviewed EVs out there.
The release date of the Escalade IQ is also unknown, though as mentioned, GM wants all of Cadillac’s cars to be all-electric by 2030. Hopefully, we’ll have more details on the IQ within a year or so.
Editors' Recommendations Cadillac aims to balance its lineup with a small electric SUV Lamborghini teases its first all-electric supercar ahead of Friday’s big reveal Check out Spectre, Rolls-Royce’s first all-electric car Buick announces plan to go all-electric with stunning EV concept The all-electric BMW i7 is a home theater on wheels Tech News Cars Maserati is preparing to go all-electric. The storied Italian automaker on Thursday announced that it will launch electric versions of each of its models over the next few years, with the goal of making its entire range electric by 2030. It's an ambitious strategy considering that, to date, Maserati has never sold an EV (although it does have some hybrids).
The first of these electric models — dubbed "Folgore" (Italian for "lightning") — will be a variant of the GranTurismo four-seat luxury coupe. The GranTurismo EV will debut in 2023 alongside a gasoline version but could be the more impressive of the two. Maserati says the electric version will have "way over 1,200 horsepower," will do zero to 60 mph in around 2.0 seconds, and will have a top speed of over 186 mph. Its battery pack will also be mounted very low, yielding better handling, Maserati claims. The return of the GranTurismo is itself noteworthy. The last version went out of production in 2019 after a 12-year run.
Cars Ford has stopped taking reservations for its first electric F-150 pickup after hitting its cap of 200,000.
Each customer has paid a $100 deposit for the F-150 Lightning, which starts at $40,000, and Ford will now work to convert the reservations to orders.
Cars Google has captured well over 10 million miles of global Street View imagery since its camera-equipped cars first hit the streets 14 years ago.
But despite the emergence of greener vehicle technology, the company has only now gotten around to deploying its first all-electric Street View car.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
