Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Tesla Supercharger Reset Screen in Tesla Tesla Phone Tesla Roadster Tesla Model X vs Tesla Model Y Tesla Optimus Tesla Destination Chargers Home Cars Guides How to reset the screen on your Tesla By Christian de Looper Close Tesla cars aren’t perfect, but they have some serious advantages over other cars. Perhaps one of the biggest is the fact that Tesla builds excellent software that allows users to quickly and easily control climate, car settings, and more — all from a sleek central control screen.
Resetting the display on a Tesla Restart the Tesla itself Hard restart your Tesla without using the screen But when that center screen isn’t working — which is definitely something that can happen — you may find yourself unable to change your car’s most basic functions. A frozen screen can make you feel downright helpless.
Is that happening to you? Here’s how to reset the display on your Tesla.
Tesla says Cybertruck resellers could face harsh penalties Lucid joins other automakers by adopting Tesla charging plug Tesla Model Y vs. Nissan Ariya: Can Tesla take out Nissan’s electric crossover? Resetting the display on a Tesla Image used with permission by copyright holder Most of the issues you encounter on a Tesla’s infotainment system can be fixed with a simple reset of the infotainment alone. Thankfully, it’s pretty easy to do so, and the process is the same no matter which Tesla model you have.
Keep in mind that during the reset process, you won’t be able to see anything on the screen, like your speed, or even hear your turn signals. Because of that, we recommend pulling over and not driving during the reset process.
To reset the infotainment on your Tesla, follow the below instructions.
Shift the car into park.
Hold down both of the scroll wheels on the steering wheel until the screen turns black.
After 30 seconds, the Tesla logo should appear, and the infotainment system should start up again. You can then use the display as intended.
Restart the Tesla itself Tesla Sometimes, resetting just the infotainment system isn’t enough to get your Tesla back into shape — and you’ll instead need to restart the car’s systems too. Assuming you still have some access to the car’s software, follow the steps below.
Make sure you’re parked and in a safe spot to stay for a few minutes. Close all doors.
Head to Controls > Safety & Security.
Press the Power Off button.
Wait a few minutes without touching anything while your car restarts its systems. Be patient! Even things like tapping the brake pedal or opening a door could interrupt this.
After waiting two minutes, press the brake pedal to wake the car.
Hard restart your Tesla without using the screen If you don’t have access to any of the software on your Tesla and need to perform a hard reset, your method will vary slightly depending on your model. Follow the below instructions to hard reset your Tesla.
Park the car in a safe spot, and close all doors.
Press and hold the brake pedal, both scroll wheels, and both steering wheel buttons if you have a Model S or X. If you have a Model Y, press and hold the brake pedal and both scroll wheels. Keep all pressed until the screen comes back on.
You should now be able to use your Tesla as normal. If you can’t, however, you’ll need to make an appointment with Tesla for repairs.
Editors' Recommendations Tesla U-turns on controversial rule for Cybertruck resellers Tesla Model S vs. Porsche Taycan: turning heads and snapping necks Watch your back, Tesla. Volvo’s EX30 just raised the bar on EV value Tesla Model S vs. Model X: Which is right for you? Watch how Tesla’s Cybertruck handles a compound bow’s arrow How-To Guides Tesla Cars Toyota has become the latest major automaker to ink a deal with Tesla to adopt the North American Charging Standard (NACS) -- also known as "the Tesla plug" -- on its fully electric vehicles from 2025.
The agreement sees the Japanese car giant following in the footsteps of more than a dozen other automakers that have also adopted Tesla’s charging connector, among them GM, Ford, BMW, Jaguar Land Rover, Volvo, and Honda.
Cars Tesla CEO Elon Musk behind the wheel of a Cybertruck in August. Tesla Tesla has finally revealed the delivery date for the Cybertruck: November 30.
Cars The Tesla Model 3 has long been a go-to for those who want a reasonably priced EV that's still able to offer important perks like long range. But that doesn't mean there isn't competition. In fact, over the years a number of great electric sedans have popped up, like the Polestar 2.
Polestar itself has developed quite a reputation for building high-quality cars. It makes sense. While Polestar itself is a relatively new company, it's owned by Volvo and at this point, shares many design elements with Volvo cars.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
