Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Tesla Supercharger Reset Screen in Tesla Tesla Phone Tesla Roadster Tesla Model X vs Tesla Model Y Tesla Optimus Tesla Destination Chargers Home Cars Guides Tesla Model X vs. Tesla Model Y: Range, speed, price, and other specs compared By Christian de Looper Close Every major carmaker, from Ford to Volvo and beyond, makes an EV these days, but Tesla has had a bit of a head start. As a result, it now offers a well-rounded lineup of electric cars, including sedans and SUVs. Tesla’s cars are still some of the best EVs out there, and if you’re in the market for an electric car, you’re likely considering a Tesla.
Tesla Model X vs. Tesla Model Y: Design Tesla Model X vs. Tesla Model Y: Size Tesla Model X vs Tesla Model Y: Performance Tesla Model X vs. Tesla Model Y: Battery Tesla Model X vs Tesla Model Y: Price Conclusions Larger cars, like SUVs and crossovers, are the most popular in the U.S. right now — and Tesla offers two of them: The Tesla Model X and the Tesla Model Y.
 Both have their advantages and disadvantages, and there are a few major differences, including price. Here’s everything you need to know about the two cars and why one or the other might be better for your needs.
Tesla Model X vs. Tesla Model Y: Design Image used with permission by copyright holder The Tesla Model X and Model Y share similar design language and a similar size, so at first glance they seem to offer more or less the same design. But there are actually a number of key differences between the two cars in terms of design.
Tesla Model 3 vs. Tesla Model Y: Bigger or cheaper? Tesla launches more affordable Model S and Model X, but there’s a catch Tesla Model 3 maintenance costs: What can you expect? The Model X has a more angular look, with squared-off edges and sharp lines. The Model Y, on the other hand, is more rounded and smoother, with a less boxy overall shape than the Model X.
 One isn’t “better” than the other, but you may prefer one over the other.
One of the Model X’s signature features is its gull-wing doors, which give it an extra bit of style and can be useful in tight parking spots, as the doors open up rather than out. The Model Y doesn’t have these, which keeps the design simpler, but means that you won’t get the benefit of the extra space they provide.
The interior design is similar too, though again, there are a few major differences. For example, the Model Y has a more minimalistic dashboard design, which some people may prefer over the busier look of the Model X. Both cars, however, have two rows of seats by default, with an option for a third row, and a few different options for materials and colors. Note that with the third row, the Model X can be configured to have either six seats or seven seats, while the Model Y with a third row can only be configured for seven seats.
Tesla Model X vs. Tesla Model Y: Size Tesla If you’re buying a Model X or Model Y, you’re likely at least somewhat concerned about size. The Model X is slightly bigger than the Model Y, with a length of 198.3 inches and a wheelbase of 116.7 inches. The Model Y is shorter, at 184.8 inches long with a wheelbase of 113.8 inches. The height differences are subtle too — the Model X stands 66.1 inches tall, while the Model Y is 64.3 inches tall.
That does translate to a little more space inside the car, including a little more headroom and leg space in the second and third rows.
Tesla Model X vs Tesla Model Y: Performance Tesla Inc The performance on offer by these two cars is also similar, but not the same. Both base models are powered by Tesla’s dual-motor all-wheel drive system, which provides plenty of power and torque for both cars. However, the Model X can be upgraded to a tri-motor system that puts one motor on each of the rear wheels and the third motor at the front.
The Model X can get up to speed quicker, with a 0-to-60 time of 3.8 seconds in the base model or 2.5 seconds in the Plaid model. The Model Y can hit 60 mph in 4.8 seconds in the base model, or 3.5 seconds in the Performance model.
Tesla Model X vs. Tesla Model Y: Battery While the performance is a little different, the range is pretty similar — though again, it will depend on which options you get. The Model X offers an Environmental Protection Agency-estimated range of 348 miles in the base model, while the Model Y gets up to 330 miles. Getting one of the performance models will reduce the range on offer.
The recharging times are similar too, with both cars able to get up to 80% charge in about 15 minutes when plugged into a Supercharger station, though that will vary a little depending on the charging speed on offer at the station.
Tesla Model X vs Tesla Model Y: Price Tesla Perhaps the biggest difference between the two cars is their price. The Model X starts at around $127,470 and can get as high as $139,990 in the performance model. The Model Y is much more affordable, starting at just $65,990 and maxing out at around $69,990 for the Performance model.
Tesla has been known to change pricing for the cars relatively often, so don’t be too surprised if the prices are different when you look at the website. Also, these prices don’t take into account things like tax credits and other savings.
Conclusions So which Tesla is right for you? If you’re deciding between these cars only, then the Model Y is probably the best choice for most people, simply because of the fact that it offers almost everything you’ll get in the Model X, at a much lower price.
It’s also worth considering other electric crossovers and SUVs. Some of the best out there right now include the Hyundai Ioniq 5 and the Kia EV6 , and that’s not to mention the higher-end options from the likes of BMW, Mercedes, and more.
Editors' Recommendations Tesla Model 3 Highland: release date, range, design update, and more Volkswagen ID.4 vs Tesla Model Y Tesla Cybertruck: rumored price, release date, specs and more BMW i4 vs. Tesla Model 3: Which EV sedan is better? Tesla’s Model 3 is reportedly heading for a redesign Tesla Cars Elon Musk has opened Tesla’s first car factory in Europe, describing the launch of the $5.5 billion facility in Germany as another “step in the direction of a sustainable future.” At a glitzy event at the new Giga Berlin plant on Tuesday, the Tesla chief presented 30 customers with the first all-electric Model Y vehicles to roll off the production line.
Cars Tesla’s market value increased beyond $1 trillion on Monday after Hertz announced "an initial order" of 100,000 vehicles from the automaker.
Hertz has ordered the Tesla Model 3, which starts at around $40,000 and is the automaker’s best-priced vehicle among its current range of electric vehicles (EVs).
News Tesla held its Model S Plaid delivery event on Thursday, June 10.
Model S Plaid Delivery Event Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
