Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Tesla Supercharger Reset Screen in Tesla Tesla Phone Tesla Roadster Tesla Model X vs Tesla Model Y Tesla Optimus Tesla Destination Chargers Home Cars Tesla recalls nearly a half a million vehicles over safety issues By Trevor Mogg Close Tesla is recalling nearly half a million Model 3 and Model S vehicles in the U.S. over safety issues related to the rearview camera and the trunk.
Specifically, 356,309 Tesla Model 3 electric cars (model years 2017 through 2020/production dates July 15, 2017 through September 30, 2020) have been recalled over a problem with the trunk harness coaxial cable that could wear away and cut the feed from the rearview camera to the center display.
“Over time, repeated opening and closing of the trunk lid may cause excessive wear to the coaxial cable,” a document posted by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) says, adding that if the wear causes the core of the coaxial cable to separate, the rearview camera feed to the vehicle’s center display will stop working, increasing the risk of a collision.
Tesla Model 3 vs. Tesla Model Y: Bigger or cheaper? Tesla launches more affordable Model S and Model X, but there’s a catch Tesla recalls electric Semi truck just months after launch The other recall affects 119,009 Tesla Model S vehicles (model years 2014 through 2021/production dates September 16, 2014 through December 23, 2020) and involves a situation where a misalignment error with the latch assembly in the frunk (front trunk) could cause the hood to pop open without warning, obscuring the driver’s view and increasing the chances of a crash.
According to the NHTSA’s documents, Tesla is not aware of any major incidents related to either of the issues.
Owners of affected vehicles can take their Tesla to a dealer for a free repair. If anyone has already paid to fix the listed issues, Tesla will reimburse the owner for the cost of the work.
Concerned owners can visit this page on Tesla’s website to find out if their vehicle is subject to any recalls.
The notices were filed on December 21, though they have only just received media attention.
Earlier this year, Tesla called in around 135,000 Model S and Model X vehicles to fix an issue that put the touchscreen at risk of failure, resulting in the loss of the rearview/backup camera feed and other safety-related features.
Editors' Recommendations Tesla Model 3 Highland: release date, range, design update, and more Tesla Model 3 vs. Hyundai Ioniq 6: Which electric sedan is best? Move aside, Tesla. The Hyundai Ioniq 6 is the best electric sedan for the masses Tesla Model 3 maintenance costs: What can you expect? Tesla recalls 363,000 of its vehicles over safety issue News Tech News Tesla Cars The BMW i4 and Tesla Model 3 are two of the hottest electric cars on the market today. Both vehicles offer a range of features designed to make driving easy and efficient, as well as attractive styling. But each has its advantages and disadvantages, and there is much that sets them apart in terms of performance, technology, convenience, and cost.
Deciding between the two? That's why we've put together this guide. Here are the differences and similarities between the Tesla Model 3 and BMW i4, and why you might want one over the other.
Design Cars Tesla is currently working on a redesign of the Model 3 in a bid to help the automaker reduce production costs, a new report claims.
Codenamed “Highland,” the project to revamp the Model 3 would cut the complexity and number of components inside Tesla’s electric car, four people claiming to have knowledge of the matter told Reuters this week. Changes to the Model 3’s exterior and powertrain performance are also possible, the report said.
Cars Ford has recalled more than half a million Escape and Bronco Sport SUVs in the U.S. due to a fire risk. Around 114,000 of the vehicles in other countries are also affected.
The issue centers on a faulty fuel injector and affects 2020 through 2023 Escapes (333,342 U.S. vehicles in all), and 2021 through 2023 Bronco Sports (188,436 U.S. vehicles in all) that come with a 3-cylinder, 1.5-liter engine.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
