Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Tesla Supercharger Reset Screen in Tesla Tesla Phone Tesla Roadster Tesla Model X vs Tesla Model Y Tesla Optimus Tesla Destination Chargers Home Cars Guides What is a Tesla Supercharger? By Christian de Looper Close Tesla has enjoyed a years-long lead in the EV space, which has given it time to build an incredibly expansive charging network in the U.S. No matter where you’re driving, chances are you can get there using the Tesla Supercharger network, topping up your Tesla as you go. But what is a Tesla Supercharger? How do Superchargers compare with ordinary EV charging stations ? Types of Tesla Supercharger Tesla Supercharger network How much does it cost to use a Tesla Supercharger? Can any car plug into a Tesla Supercharger? The short answer is that a Tesla Supercharger is a charger designed specifically for use with Tesla vehicles, and only Tesla vehicles. But things are also a little more complicated than that. Here’s the long answer.
Types of Tesla Supercharger Tesla Superchargers aren’t all the same. There are three main types: V1, V2, and V3. As you might expect, V3 chargers are the most recent and most advanced type of charger, and they can charge at up to 250kW, though rumors indicate that they will support speeds of up to 324kW or faster through an update. Eventually, Tesla will begin building V4 Superchargers that will offer even faster speeds.
Tesla says Cybertruck resellers could face harsh penalties Watch how Tesla’s Cybertruck handles a compound bow’s arrow Tesla’s Cybertruck finally gets a delivery date V1 and V2 Superchargers currently support charging speeds of up to 150kW — which is still quite fast and should charge a Tesla from 0% to 80% in less than 30 minutes. V1 and V2 Superchargers are still in operation, so you won’t always get the current maximum of 250kW with a V3 charger — but you still get fast charging in general.
Tesla Supercharger network Tesla / Tesla The Tesla Supercharger experience isn’t just about how fast they charge — it’s also about how often you can charge. Because Tesla has been at it for much longer than everyone else, the Tesla Supercharger network is huge — and Tesla owners can charge all over the country. According to the Tesla website, there are currently more than 40,000 Superchargers around the world, and there are many more to come.
The result? You can easily travel across the country on Tesla’s Supercharger network. It may require a little forward planning, but it’s possible — and it’s going to get easier and easier as time goes on. It’s also important to note the fact that Tesla users can use other charging networks — though it will require using an adapter to do so.
How much does it cost to use a Tesla Supercharger? The cost of using a Tesla Supercharger varies based on a number of different factors, just like gasoline.
 Costs vary from location to location, day to day, and even hour to hour in some cases. Usage isn’t even metered uniformly: Some stations charge by the minute, some by the kilowatt-hour. In other words, it’s impossible to say exactly how much a Supercharger costs.
But g enerally speaking, a Tesla Supercharger costs around $0.25 per kW, according to Evannex , a maker of third-party Tesla accessories. That means that it should cost less than $20 to fully charge a Tesla, or less if you’re only partially charging it. The best EV charging apps can help give you an idea of the cost at any given station before you roll up.
Prior to 2016, Tesla offered free unlimited charging with some models, but it has since ended free Supercharging.
Can any car plug into a Tesla Supercharger? No. Tesla cars can charge at most charging stations around the country with an adapter, but currently, no other car can charge at a Supercharger except in a few select areas where Tesla is testing allowing other cars to charge at Tesla stations. It’s possible Tesla will open its stations more in the future, but we’ll have to wait and see if and when that happens. Non-Tesla cars can’t even plug in at the station. That’s because Tesla cars use their own charging connector, and while the connector is no longer propriety, no non-Tesla cars have it yet. Non-Tesla EVs currently mostly use the CCS plug, which has risen to become the standard in the U.S. For more information on EV infrastructure, check out our comprehensive EV glossary.
Editors' Recommendations Tesla U-turns on controversial rule for Cybertruck resellers Lucid joins other automakers by adopting Tesla charging plug Toyota joins ‘the Tesla plug’ club Tesla Model 3 Highland: release date, range, design update, and more Tesla Model 3 vs. Tesla Model Y: Bigger or cheaper? Tesla Cars The electric car world is seriously heating up, with a number of high-end electric crossovers now available, albeit still at a higher price than comparable gas-powered cars. The Tesla Model Y is one of the first of these, offering the Tesla design, a high-tech software experience, and more. But another one of the older of these models is the Volkswagen ID.4, which was first released in 2021 and also offers among the better electric car experiences out there.
Can the ID.4 compete with one of the best-selling electric cars out there? We put the two head-to-head to find out.
Design The first thing to compare between these two cars is design, and they take a slightly different approach.
Cars Tesla Cybertruck wheel hubcap flying off on the freeway almost hitting a car. Tesla dashcam footage Tesla’s futuristic-looking Cybertruck has yet to officially launch but a few test versions have been spotted zipping along the freeways of California in recent weeks.
Cars Electric vehicles benefit from instant torque, but that doesn't necessarily mean they're quick.
The more affordable electric cars, like the Chevrolet Bolt EV and Hyundai Kona Electric, are zippy around town, but nothing to brag about on a drag strip. However, higher-end models like the ones we're looking at here can keep up with some of the most powerful gasoline-burning sports cars in the world -- and in many cases beat them.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
