Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Cars Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best electric cars you can buy in 2023 By Ronan Glon , Stephen Edelstein and Christian de Looper Close Kicking your gasoline addiction is easier than ever in 2023, because electric cars are becoming increasingly common. They’re not cheap, dinky golf carts, either. Whether you’re looking for a high-performance sedan, a luxury car, or a humble crossover, there’s a good chance you can find an electric car that suits your lifestyle. The Tesla Model 3 is the best electric car available because its technology is outstanding, it’s stylish, and it’s somewhat affordable, but there are other great options.
At a glance Product Category Rating Tesla Model 3 Best electric car overall 5 out of 5 Rivian R1S Best electric SUV Not yet rated Chevrolet Bolt Best affordable electric car 3 out of 5 BMW iX Best luxury electric car Not yet rated Lucid Air Best performance electric car 4 out of 5 Ford Mustang Mach-E Best electric crossover Not yet rated The best: Tesla Model 3 Tesla Motors Why should you buy this? It is simply the best electric vehicle on sale.
Who’s it for? Those who simply want the best EV package, complete with excellent charging support and a good software experience.
The best October Prime Day electric scooter deals happening now You can lease an electric scooter for a month for only $19 Weekend deal: Save $50 on this popular 4K dash cam at Best Buy How much will it cost? $40,240 Why we picked the Tesla Model 3: Modestly stylish on the outside, comfortable on the inside, surprisingly fun to drive, and available with up to 333 miles of range, the Tesla Model 3 checks all the right boxes. But that’s just the beginning. Where the Model 3 truly impresses is its innovative convenience and safety features (including some of the industry’s best semiautonomous driving aids) and future-proofed technology. Thanks to Tesla’s over-the-air updates, the Model 3 is always improving and can be reconfigured according to your needs and wants — even after you buy the car.
Tesla may be experiencing the growing pains most mainstream automakers have long overcome, and the Model 3 certainly hasn’t been immune from quality-related problems, but the tech startup has much to teach the automotive industry about how to build a compelling electric car, complete with a charging experience that doesn’t make you want to pull your hair out.
Read our Tesla Model 3 review The best electric SUV: Rivian R1S Rivian Why should you buy this? It’s well-built, roomy, and full of great features.
Who’s it for? Anyone that wants a little more room from their electric car.
How much will it cost? $78,000 Why we picked the Rivian R1S: If you need a little more room from your electric car, then the Rivian R1s is the way to go. Rivian has become a well-known name in the world of electric cars and for good reason — its cars are well-built, offer a ton of features, and are perfect for large families or those who simply like extra storage. The R1S isn’t cheap, starting at $78,000, but when you factor in the quality and compare it with other electric SUVs, it’s actually not terrible.
Of course, if you do spring for the R1S, you’ll be getting tons of extra features. Inside the car, there’s enough room for seven seats, plus it offers a well-designed interior and well-built exterior.
The R1s is no slouch compared to other EVs. It delivers between 260 and 352 miles of range, depending on the model you go fit, and it can get you from zero to 60 miles per hour in as little as three seconds, which makes it very quick. Speed and size, all in one package — perfect for the family that wants to get from A to B as quickly as possible.
Read our first-drive Rivian R1S review The best affordable electric car: Chevrolet Bolt EV Image used with permission by copyright holder Why should you buy this? It’s one of the affordable electric cars that’s worthy of a road trip.
Who’s it for? Drivers who want to give up gas without sacrificing range.
How much will it cost? $26,500 Why we picked the Chevrolet Bolt EV: For years, motorists in the market for an electric car had to choose between a long range or an affordable price. Relatively affordable EVs like the original Nissan Leaf could be procured for under $30,000, but they needed recharging after about 80 miles, which is inconvenient at best. On the other end of the spectrum, luxury EVs like the Lucid Air could top 300 miles between charges, but their price tags made them an unrealistic option for most.
But a few years ago, we finally got an electric car for the masses: the Chevrolet Bolt EV. Boasting a range of up to 259 miles and priced under $30,000, the relatively small Bolt helped reshape the world of EVs by making them accessible to more people. Practicality and affordability are just two elements of a good car, but thankfully, the Bolt has much more up its sleeve. While we prefer the more expensive Model 3, the Bolt EV is a fantastic alternative — though it is getting axed from Chevrolet’s lineup at the end of 2023.
With a total output of 200 hp, the Bolt EV is quite zippy. Factor in the low center of gravity afforded by the floor-mounted battery pack, and you have a planted, stable, and surprisingly responsive people carrier that never needs to visit the gas station. Add in a spacious and comfy cabin, a standard 10.2-inch touchscreen, and DC fast charging options, and you have an industry game-changer you’ll actually want to drive. It’s available in all 50 states, and there’s no waiting time to get one.
Read our Chevrolet Bolt review The best luxury electric car: BMW iX Ronan Glon Why should you buy this? It’s absurdly plush.
Who’s it for? People who won’t settle for just any electric car.
How much will it cost? $88,095 Why we picked the BMW iX: BMW has a history of building highly luxurious cars, and the iX embodies that. Sure, you may not love the exterior, but step inside and you’ll discover what luxury can be. We’re talking seat massagers, heaters, and coolers in both the front and the back seats, stunningly luxurious materials throughout, and more.
The experience of being a passenger in the iX is perhaps better than being a driver. In the back, passengers get their own in-armrest controls for their seats, along with automatic window shades. Even better? There’s a huge TV screen that can be lowered from the ceiling of the car, and passengers can either use the built-in Fire TV operating system or connect their own devices. It’s pretty impressive.
Of course, it’s a whole lot of fun to drive too. The iX is responsive and quick, and delivers up to 324 miles of range, which makes it great for longer-distance driving too.
Read our first-drive BMW iX review The best electric performance car: Lucid Air Christian de Looper / BGR Why should you buy this? It’s extremely fast, has an unparalleled range, and is incredibly comfortable.
Who’s it for? Adrenaline junkies, executives, and those with debilitating range anxiety.
How much will it cost? $89,050 Why we picked the Lucid Air : If we were to judge based on capability alone, the Lucid Air would unquestionably be our pick for the best electric vehicle. We live in the real world though, and with a starting price over $90,000, the fact remains that most people simply can’t afford to drive a new Lucid Air.
However, if you can swing the price, and you’re looking for something fast, comfy, and emissions-free, the range long-range Lucid Air is right up your alley. Even the base model, called the Pure, has a range much longer than any other electric car out there, at 410 miles. Upgrade, and you’ll get up to 520 miles with the Lucid Air Dream Edition R.
Range is just one part of the equation, though, because Lucid also boasts a super quick-acceleration, luxurious features like the multiscreen setup at the front and more.
The best electric crossover: Ford Mustang Mach-E Joel Patel / Digital Trends Why should you buy this? It’s fast and sporty like a Mustang should be.
Who’s it for? Anyone who wants a roomy car that has a reasonable price.
How much will it cost? $42,995 Why we picked the Ford Mustang Mach-E: The Mach-E has been out for a few years now, and it has well and truly proven itself as one of the better electric cars out there. It may not look like a traditional Mustang, but hit the accelerator, and you’ll see why it deserves the pony on the grille.
The Mach-E makes a compelling case for itself as an electric car too. The car gets up to 312 miles of range and can charge relatively quickly. It only has five seats, but it’s relatively spacious inside, and there’s plenty of room for most situations.
The Mach-E looks pretty sporty and sleek, and it comes in a range of different colors. A wide array of options means there should be a model for everyone.
Read our full Mustang Mach-E review How we test The Digital Trends automotive team tests vehicles through a comprehensive scrutinizing process. We examine the qualities of the exterior and interior and judge them based on our expertise and experience in the context of the vehicle’s category and price range. Entertainment technology is thoroughly tested as well as most safety features that can be tested in controlled environments.
Test drivers spend extensive time behind the wheel of the vehicles, conducting real-world testing, driving them on highways and back roads, as well as off-road and race tracks when applicable. When we weren’t able to get behind the wheel ourselves, we leaned on our experiences with each automaker and compared vehicles on a statistical basis, using metrics like cost, range, performance, and available features to make our decision.
Common electric vehicle terms you may not know AC: Short for alternating current. This type of electric current reverses direction at regular intervals and is very efficient. Most modern electric cars, such as Teslas, use AC.
DC: Short for direct current. This type of electric current stays constant in its direction. DC electric motors are generally simpler and cheaper than AC electric motors, but they are less efficient.
EV: Short for electric vehicle.
Fast charge: Fast chargers utilize a higher current than a standard domestic outlet. For example, a Tesla Supercharger can charge a 90kWh Model S to 80% in 40 minutes. In a standard outlet, the same process would take a few hours.
kWh: Short for kilowatt-hour, a unit of electricity usage.
Lead Acid Battery: An older style of battery that uses lead and sulfuric acid to transfer and store energy. They are much cheaper than Lithium-Ion batteries but have a shorter service life.
Lithium-Ion Battery: Often shortened to Li-Ion, batteries of this type are common on modern electric cars and use a compound called lithium-cobalt oxide to transfer and store energy.
MPGe: Short for miles per gallon (of gasoline) equivalent. To calculate MPGe numbers, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) calculated that there are approximately 115,000 BTUs of energy in one gallon of gasoline, and used that formula to convey the amount of power an electric car uses in terms most drivers are familiar with.
Nickel-Metal Hydride Battery: Often shortened to NiMH, batteries of this type are found on some older electric cars, however, most automakers prefer Lithium-Ion.
Regenerative braking: A system that uses energy created by braking to recharge the battery.
Editors' Recommendations Flash deal knocks $140 off this 48-amp home electric vehicle charger The best October Prime Day dash cam deals you can shop now Best electric car charger deals: $100 off home charging stations The absolute best place to buy or sell a car Save up to 26% on Pioneer vehicle stereo receivers at Best Buy Best Products Tech for Change The Food Fight Cars If you're looking for one of the best ways to charge your electric vehicle, Best Buy has a great deal for you today. Right now, you can buy the Juicebox 25ft Electric Vehicle Charger for $549, saving you $120 off the regular price of $669. Convenient for anyone who wants to be able to charge from home more efficiently, this level 2 electric vehicle charger is sure to be a hit with you. You'll need to be fast though as, predictably, this deal of the day ends today. Let's take a quick look at why it's worth it.
Why you should buy the Juicebox 25ft Electric Vehicle Charger If you've been reading up on how to charge your electric car at home, you'll notice Juicebox gets a mention. Its Level 2 chargers are more powerful than Level 1 so you can refill your battery quicker. With the Juicebox 25ft Electric Vehicle Charger, you can expect up to six times faster charging than with the charger that came with your car. Universal compatibility means it works with all TVs on the market today and in the future, including Teslas thanks to a commonly used adapter.
Mobile Although support for CarPlay and Android Auto is coming to more vehicles every year, lots of older cars are still on the road. Fortunately, you don't need the latest bells and whistles to use your smartphone on the road; there are still plenty of options available to keep your phone visible and accessible on your dashboard so you can use it to navigate to your destination or simply keep your favorite road-trip playlists at your fingertips. That's where the best iPhone car mounts come in handy.
With so many car mounts to choose from, it can be tough to find the right one. They're not all created equal, plus you have to decide whether it's best to mount your phone atop your dashboard, hang it off one of your vents, or mount it some other way. Your options will vary depending on the make and model of your vehicle, as well as personal preferences, but our list will help guide you in the right direction to get you started. There's something for just about everyone here — from sophisticated magnetic charging docks to simple gooseneck mounts that you can drop into your cup holder.
Cars Lucid Motors has become the latest automaker to announce that it will adopt the North American Charging Standard (NACS) – also known as "the Tesla plug" – for its electric vehicles.
The move follows in the footsteps of more than a dozen other automakers that have also adopted Tesla’s charging connector, among them General Motors, Ford, Toyota, BMW, Jaguar Land Rover, Volvo, and Honda.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
