Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Cars News Volkswagen ID.7 shows not every EV needs to be an SUV By Stephen Edelstein Close Volkswagen wants its electric cars to go head-to-head with gasoline models, but only now is it replacing one of those models with an EV.
A sleeker shape Glass cockpit More power, greater efficiency Choice matters While, the VW ID.4 is pitched as an electric alternative to popular gasoline crossover SUVs, and the ID.Buzz taps a well of nostalgia, the Volkswagen ID.7 fills a gap in the lineup left by the Passat , which ended production with the 2022 model year after nearly 50 years as VW’s staple sedan in the United States.
Scheduled to go on sale in the U.S. in 2024, and previously teased at CES 2023, the ID.7 aims to breathe new life into the sedan segment with electric power, more tech, and aerodynamic styling reminiscent of the other ID models. Yet while it’s a recommitment to sedans for VW, the ID.7 doesn’t have the market to itself. EV shoppers already have the Hyundai Ioniq 6, Polestar 2, and Tesla Model 3 to consider.
The Lucid Gravity has more range than any other electric SUV How do you crash-test an EV with an 871-pound battery? Mercedes showed us Volkswagen ID.GTI concept is another icon reimagined as an EV A sleeker shape Stripping away the camouflage shows many styling features that are recognizable from other ID models, including slim headlights mounted high on a grille-less front fascia, rounded edges, and body sides with sectioned, sloping elements like beachside cliffs that have been subject to much erosion. As with the ID.4 and ID.Buzz, the goal was to reduce aerodynamic drag and create a look that’s distinctively EV.
The ID.7 is 1.7 inches longer than the Passat, with a 6.4-inch longer wheelbase that should benefit interior space. It’s also a bit wider and taller than the Passat, which was a midsize sedan roughly the same size as well-known models like the Honda Accord and Toyota Camry. The ID.7 also has the fastback shape of the VW Arteon , positioned as a more luxurious model than the old Passat, but is 2.1 inches longer.
These dimensions make the ID.7 the largest VW sedan (the only other such model in VW’s U.S. lineup is the compact Jetta ) but put it close to other electric sedans. It’s longer than the Hyundai Ioniq 6, Polestar 2, and Tesla Model 3, but the Hyundai’s wheelbase is nearly the same. The VW is about as wide as these other models, but it’s the tallest of the group, standing about four inches taller than the Tesla.
Glass cockpit The ID.7 gets a freestanding 15-inch touchscreen that handles most functions, including climate control and seat adjustments. VW also kept touch sliders for audio volume and cabin temperature, one of the more controversial features of the previous ID models. If those prove too frustrating, voice control is included as well.
The driver interface is a bit different, though. The ID.7 gets a more elaborate head-up display with augmented-reality functions that VW claims will allow drivers to rely less on the instrument cluster, which will still show basic information like speed. The head-up display will be able to show that as well, though, plus the posted speed limit, and navigation directions. This information will be shown in the driver’s field of vision at different distances, with navigation information placed further out so it looks like it’s being projected onto the landscape.
Driver aids include an updated version of VW’s Travel Assist system with an automated lane-change function, keeping up with systems like Hyundai’s Highway Driving Assist and Nissan’s ProPilot Assist , but without the greater functionality of General Motors’ Super Cruise.
 Automated parking — already offered by Hyundai and Tesla — will also be available.
More power, greater efficiency At launch, the ID.7 will be available in Pro spec with an 82-kilowatt-hour battery pack but will be followed up by a Pro S model with a 91-kWh pack. U.S. range estimates aren’t available yet, but VW estimates 382 miles with the smaller pack and 435 miles with the larger pack on the European WLTP testing cycle. Equivalent U.S. figures will be lower, but it’s possible that at least some versions of the ID.7 will exceed 300 miles.
The ID.7 also debuts a new motor VW claims is more efficient than the ones used in existing electric models like the ID.4 and ID.Buzz. It also produces 282 horsepower — a big upgrade from the 201 hp rating for single-motor versions of those models. A dual-motor all-wheel drive powertrain like the one currently offered in the ID.4 will likely arrive after the single-motor version.
VW says the ID.7 can DC fast charge at 170 kilowatts with the smaller battery pack and 200 kW with the larger pack. Battery preconditioning, which automatically optimizes temperature before charging, should help the ID.7 hit those maximum power rates as often as possible.
Choice matters With the ID.7’s U.S. launch so far out, it’s a bit too early to talk pricing. With the ID.4 already established as the entry-level model in VW’s EV lineup, though, it’s possible the ID.7 won’t be the cheapest EV around. That would also be in line with the Hyundai Ioniq 6 , which has a relatively low base price, but ends up in the more premium territory of the Polestar 2 and Tesla Model 3 once options are added.
Just offering an electric sedan proves VW is serious about its mission to make EVs with mass appeal.
 Given the current popularity (and profitability) of SUVs, it made sense to make the ID.4 the first of VW’s new EVs out of the gate. But variety is a big part of the appeal of cars, and it would be a mistake to launch only SUVs, assuming that’s what everyone wants. EV buyers shouldn’t be forced to buy SUVs. The ID.7 is looking like a nice alternative.
Editors' Recommendations Cadillac aims to balance its lineup with a small electric SUV Watch your back, Tesla. Volvo’s EX30 just raised the bar on EV value Volkswagen ID.4 vs Tesla Model Y Don’t let these hidden EV fees catch you off guard (or deter you) Lanzador concept previews Lamborghini’s first EV Tech News Cars SUVs are all the rage. So are EVs. It makes sense, therefore, that the Tesla Model Y is the world's best selling car. But that begs the question -- how much of the Tesla Model Y being so popular is just because of the fact that it's one of the very few large-size electric cars out there? Well, we're about to find out. A number of electric SUVs have been announced, and many will be released in the very near future. This is far from a list of all the upcoming electric SUVs -- but it is a list of the ones we're most excited about.
Lucid Gravity Cars Acura is a little late to the EV game, but it's found a clever way to catch up. Scheduled to start deliveries next year, the 2024 Acura ZDX is the luxury brand's first EV, mixing Acura design elements and a mostly forgotten name from the brand's recent past with General Motors Ultium hardware.
The original Acura ZDX was one of the first "SUV coupes," combining the tall ride height of a traditional SUV with a low roof that was more form than function. While this subgenre of SUV later took off, the ZDX was not a sales success, lasting only from the 2010 model year to 2013.
Cars Electric cars may be getting cheaper, but they're still not cheap. As such, many potential customers hope to factor in the up-to-$7,500 federal electric vehicle tax credit as a way to soften the blow of buying a new car.
But the federal EV tax credit has gone through a number if iterations, and it doesn't last forever. Not only that, but as it turns out, many electric cars simply aren't eligible for the credit, and it's important to keep that in mind if you plan on buying an electric car in the near future.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
