Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Cars Guides How to disable Apple CarPlay By Chris Teague Close Not everyone finds Apple CarPlay useful; some drivers argue that it’s a massive distraction. If you want to plug your iPhone into your car without seeing CarPlay on your car’s infotainment screen, you’ll need to dive into the settings menu and disable the software. It’s a fairly straightforward process that shouldn’t take more than a few taps, regardless of the type of iPhone you have or the type of car you drive.
Adjusting iPhone settings Vehicle settings Adjusting iPhone settings Image used with permission by copyright holder When the iPhone is first plugged into a CarPlay-compatible car’s USB port, the device will alert the user with a notification that asks if the phone should allow CarPlay to be active while the screen is locked. It might seem like saying “no” here will disable CarPlay, but it only blocks the system from connecting when the device is locked. To disable CarPlay from the phone itself, you will need to follow the steps below: Newer iPhone models Open Settings.
Choose Screen Time.
Choose Content & Privacy Restrictions.
Enable restrictions and then choose Allowed Apps.
Disable CarPlay.
Older iPhone models Opening Settings.
Choose General.
Choose Restrictions.
Enable restrictions and enter a passcode.
Toggle the CarPlay option to Off.
It is also possible to temporarily disable CarPlay from the iPhone. To do this, select CarPlay in the Settings menu under General , choose the vehicle currently in use, and opt to disable/remove it from the list. This change won’t permanently remove the device’s ability to connect, but it will require the user to approve the vehicle for playback the next time the phone is plugged in. If the user opts against accepting CarPlay, the phone will only charge each time you plug it in. The ability to disable CarPlay is handy for a range of scenarios.
Vehicle settings Image used with permission by copyright holder On the vehicle side of the equation, many automakers have included an option to disable Apple CarPlay. Ford, for example, has made it easy to switch off the functionality in its vehicles. The Sync 3 system in many late-model Ford models lets users disable CarPlay by choosing Preferences and then selecting the currently connected iPhone. The system will then allow the user to disable that phone’s CarPlay abilities.
Many other manufacturers approach this differently. If you have a late-model Jaguar , for example, it will ask you how you want your phone to interact with the infotainment system once it’s plugged it in. You can either choose to connect with CarPlay or sync music and phone calls using another technique. If you prefer, you can also have the system remember what you selected. This comes in handy when you want it to remain in place for longer than one vehicle trip. Sadly, there isn’t a model method for disabling CarPlay. We suggest contacting your automobile manufacturer or the local dealership directly to obtain more information on how to do this properly. It may also be wise to browse through your user manual, as it may include information that can provide you with a detailed step-by-step guide.
Fortunately, once you disable CarPlay, you can get it back. You can rest assured that you’ll always be able to undo the disable process. It’s also important to note that enabling or disabling does not hinder CarPlay’s quality of effectiveness. You can enjoy switching it on and off as much as you want. You don’t need to worry about any drawbacks or consequences. If you have a self-proclaimed DJ for a passenger, you can quickly disable CarPlay. Once they leave your vehicle, you can turn it back on and enjoy the songs you actually want to hear.
Editors' Recommendations Apple wants to supercharge CarPlay, but here’s why carmakers won’t bite Add Apple CarPlay or Android Auto to your car with these head unit deals This $3 USB adapter fixed all of my Apple CarPlay connection problems ‘The cars are the stars.’ How automakers are electrifying the racetrack The best iPhone car mounts in 2023: top 10 best ones you can buy Apple Apple How-To Guides Cars One of the biggest perks to owning an electric car is charging it in the comfort of your own home, rather than requiring stops at a gas station every week or so. That means that if you stay on top of charging, and don’t take super long trips, you’ll never really have to worry about when and where to "fill up." But there are a number of ways to charge up at home, and they’re not all for everyone. In fact, some options are far better than others — and getting the right charging gear for your needs is definitely worth doing.
Cars Rumors have been swirling around for years regarding Apple’s plans for an electric, self-driving car.
The latest report, which arrived on Tuesday via a usually reliable source, suggests Apple has scaled back its plan for an autonomous car, with some elements yet to be agreed upon.
Cars A former Apple employee on Monday pled guilty to the theft of trade secrets from the tech firm.
The material stolen by Xiaolang Zhang was linked to Apple’s work on its first-ever automobile, a project that’s been in and out of the headlines for years though never officially confirmed by the company.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
