Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Guides What is Amazon Alexa, and what can it do? By Michael Bizzaco , Erika Rawes and Kim Wetzel Close Amazon Alexa is an interactive voice assistant that can check the weather, launch your favorite playlist, and everything in between. Alexa can be found on most Amazon products, including the new Echo Pop , the iconic Echo Dot , and even a variety of smart thermostats , soundbars , lamps , and more. Aside from taking basic commands from you, Alexa can also dish out commands to the rest of your connected smart home — making it easy to streamline your life.
Who/what is Alexa? Why Alexa? Where can I use Alexa? What can Alexa do? Interested in learning more about Amazon Alexa? Then you’re in the right place. Here’s a closer look at where Alexa comes from, how it works, where it got its name, and just about everything else you’d want to know about the popular voice assistant and smart home savant.
Who/what is Alexa? Image used with permission by copyright holder For most people, all you really have to know about Alexa is that it’s the name of the voice that comes out of Alexa-enabled speakers. Basically, Alexa is to Amazon what Siri is to Apple. Alexa is a voice that you can ask questions to and get answers, such as “What is the weather today in Chicago?” Alexa has been integrated into many of Amazon’s services and can be used with products such as the original Amazon Echo , Echo Dot , Echo Spot , Echo Show , or Amazon Fire TV.
The 11 best smart home products that support Matter The best smart home devices for 2023 The best video doorbells for 2023 But really, what exactly is Alexa ? When you ask Alexa a question, what you’re doing is communicating with a cloud-based service. Amazon has designed the Alexa Voice Service (AVS) to mimic real conversations, but you’re actually using intuitive voice commands to get this service to perform specific tasks. “Alexa” is simply the “wake word” that alerts the service to start listening to your voice. For most devices, you just have to say the wake word to get a response.
According to Amazon’s Developer site, the Alexa Voice Service (AVS) lives in the cloud. Amazon’s AVS is an intelligent voice recognition and natural language understanding service. The service can be used to voice-enable any connected device that has a microphone and speaker. That’s why you’re starting to see Alexa in headphones and other devices. “Alexa is always getting smarter with new capabilities through machine learning,” Amazon’s Developer site reads.
While Alexa is the official name for Amazon’s voice assistant, you can change this wake word to “Amazon,” “Computer,” or “Echo.” That’s a useful feature, especially if your name or your partner’s or roommate’s name happens to be Alexa or something that sounds similar.
Why Alexa? Image used with permission by copyright holder Apple has Siri. Google Home has the Google Assistant, which comes alive when you say “OK, Google.” Amazon has Alexa. But why? According to David Limp , the Amazon executive who oversaw the development of the service, the name “Alexa” was chosen for a few reasons. First, the name “Alexa” harks back to the Library of Alexandria, which attempted to collect all of the world’s knowledge. Amazon is attempting to do the same thing. Alexa is always learning but, in theory, it should be a seamless source of information.
More practically, the service was named Alexa because it contains the uncommon “X” sound. Since this service is voice-activated, Amazon wanted to choose a name that wouldn’t get confused with other words that could accidentally awaken the device: “We did go through a number of names and the name is important as much for the personality that it creates around the persona than is this computer-based voice computer in the cloud. But there’s computer science behind it, too,” Limp said. “If any of you have Echoes, you know that it only wakes up when it hears the word ‘Alexa,’ and the phonics of that word and how that word is parsed, and the fact that it has a hard consonant with the ‘X’ in it, is important in making sure that it wakes up only when it’s asked for. And so, a combination of those two things allowed us to kind of narrow in on Alexa.” Where can I use Alexa? The fourth-gen Amazon Echo is one of four available Sidewalk Bridges.
Image used with permission by copyright holder In order to use Alexa, you’ll need a device that integrates voice technology. This typically means an Amazon device, such as an Echo, Echo Dot, or Echo Show, but this cloud-based personal voice assistant has also been integrated into the Echo Auto, and with some third-party systems. Devices like the Fire TV are also compatible with Alexa, as are some third-party devices such as the Sonos One.
 Someone even programmed Alexa to work with a Big Mouth Billy Bass.
Alexa has also become the center of many smart-home systems, including Wink, SmartThings, and the Logitech Harmony. You can also use the voice assistant to build your smart home piecemeal, as Alexa can pair with hubless devices such as WeMo switches and Nest thermostats. And now that many Echo devices support Matter , it can interact with a wide variety of smart home gadgets.
Here is a list of the best smart home devices compatible with Alexa.
What can Alexa do? Image used with permission by copyright holder The list of commands Alexa can understand seems to grow on a daily basis. Amazon calls these “skills,” and you can even create your own skills through Amazon Blueprints.
 Upon review from Amazon, you can even publish your own skills in the Amazon Skills Store for other people to use on their Alexa devices. The number of tasks that Alexa can accomplish is clearly more than we can list in this article, so be sure to check out our roundup of the best Alexa skills of 2023.
In addition, Alexa is also useful in helping people establish bedtime and morning routines. You only need to assign a command, and that specific command can trigger a series of events. For instance, if you were to say, “Alexa, goodnight,” it could trigger the machine to turn all house lights off, arm the security system, and turn on an ambient noise machine simultaneously. You can make your routine pretty specific, too; If you’d like, you could program Alexa to turn on your preferred lights, wait 10 minutes, and then turn on the coffee pot. If you get up earlier than your partner does, you can use Alexa’s whisper mode , so it communicates back in a whisper and listens explicitly for your whispers. You can learn how to set up routines in our how-to guide.
Alexa Guard is a helpful security feature that carefully monitors the perimeter of your house and the activity inside your home when you’re not there. If your Echo speaker picks up on unusual sounds, like breaking glass or another mysterious noise, Alexa will quickly alert you with a notification to check things out. With Alexa Guard Plus (a paid version of the same feature), you’ll have the same home-monitoring feature, access to Amazon’s emergency hotline, and several other security tools too.
Amazon is constantly working to improve and expand Alexa’s functions and capabilities by creating valuable and intuitive technology. For example, the company is currently working to roll out frustration-detection features, so Alexa will be able to understand your tone and figure out if you’re getting frustrated with it. If you want to learn about some more of these new Alexa features, simply ask, “Alexa, what’s new with you?” and it’s happy to share.
Editors' Recommendations The best outdoor smart plugs for 2023 Amazon Astro gets a day job with Astro for Business The best Alexa skills to use on your Amazon Echo in 2023 Arlo Essential 2nd Gen vs. Arlo Pro 4: is the Arlo Pro 4 worth it? Arlo Essential XL 2nd Gen vs. Arlo Pro 4: Which is the better security camera? Amazon Amazon Alexa Smart Home The refreshed Apple HomePod is one of the best smart speakers on the market. It offers booming sound, a great design, and access to the Siri voice assistant. It also costs quite a bit of cash -- making it one of the most expensive smart speakers. On the other side of the pricing spectrum is the Echo Pop, which is remarkably cheap and gives you access to the Alexa voice assistant.
But is the HomePod (Gen 2) worth the added cost? Or are you better off opting for the affordable Echo Pop? Here's a closer look at the two smart speakers to help you figure out which is best for your needs.
Pricing and design Smart Home Smart displays sit at the very center of most smart homes. With the ability to sync with other gadgets to issue commands, give you daily updates, or serve as a second screen to binge your favorite shows, smart displays are remarkably versatile devices.
The smart display market is more saturated today than ever before, with products from Amazon, Google, Facebook, and more vying for your attention. Google has even revealed that the upcoming Pixel Tablet will double as a smart display, and Apple might be throwing its hat into the ring sooner than expected.
Deals The best slow cookers and the best pressure cookers can offer convenient cooking options -- many of which you can set and forget -- but it still takes a lot of work and time to prepare a meal. What if you're in a rush, don't have time to prep before leaving for work, or just don't have time later in the evening to get food ready to cook? As an alternative, a meal delivery service is something to consider. One of the best meal delivery services out there is HelloFresh, but you will likely find meal services can be expensive and seem like a big investment if you've never used one before. That may make you wonder if there’s a HelloFresh free trial to take advantage of. We have all of the details on HelloFresh and a HelloFresh free trial, so read on if a high-quality food delivery service is of interest to you.
Is there a HelloFresh free trial? There isn’t a HelloFresh free trial, but HelloFresh does offer a significant discount across your first seven weeks of meals. HelloFresh measures its meal offerings in boxes, which consist of four meals for two people per week, or eight total servings. And while HelloFresh doesn’t offer an outright free trial, what it does offer is 16 free meals spread out across your first seven boxes. This significantly decreases the cost of your first seven boxes. It’s also a good way to test out the HelloFresh service at the minimal cost you’ll be able to achieve and without having to commit to the service for too long without fully knowing whether you like the meals or even if you like utilizing a meal delivery service.
HelloFresh is known for its well-balanced and flexible meal options, which is part of what makes the idea of at least trying out HelloFresh enticing. Meal plans include preferences for Meat and Veggie (or just Veggie), Family Friendly, Fit and Wholesome, Quick and Easy, and even Pescatarian, so there are options for almost every kind of diet and lifestyle.
Can you get HelloFresh for free? You can’t get a full HelloFresh meal plan for free, but as previously mentioned, you can get 16 free meals spread across your first seven boxes. This offering also includes three surprise gifts, so you are getting quite a bit for free in addition to what you’re initially paying for. Delivery is also free as part of the HelloFresh meal service. To get a better idea of whether HelloFresh is the right meal delivery service to throw a little money at, you can check out our HelloFresh vs. Blue Apron comparison.
Are there any HelloFresh deals? Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
