Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Cars News Tesla raises price of Model 3 by $500 as it adds a little bit more range By Ronan Glon Close Tesla has once again tweaked the Model 3 ‘s pricing structure and specifications. The Californian company’s entry-level model is now more expensive, but the cheapest version now offers buyers a little bit more driving range.
The changes weren’t publicly announced by Tesla, but they were spotted by Autoblog on the carmaker’s online configurator.
 The lineup is still broken down into three models called Standard Range Plus, Long Range, and Performance The cheapest Model 3 now costs $39,490, a figure that represents a $500 increase. It’s also 5,000 more expensive than the $35,000 figure often floated in the months leading up to the car’s introduction.
As a trade-off, the sedan offers up to 250 miles of driving range, which is 10 more than before; motorists are essentially paying $50 per extra mile of range. Tesla hasn’t revealed how it unlocked the extra range, but Autoblog speculated it’s likely software-related. There are no indications that the Model 3 Standard Range Plus quietly received hardware updates. It still takes 5.3 seconds to sprint from 0 to 60 mph, and its top speed still checks in at 140 mph.
Kia EV3: Release date, performance, range, and more Tesla Model 3 Highland: release date, range, design update, and more Tesla Model 3 vs. Tesla Model Y: Bigger or cheaper? The Long Range model remains unchanged. It costs $47,990, and it provides drivers with up to 310 miles of range. Speed-hungry EV drivers can cruise at 60 mph in 4.4 seconds, and they can keep going until the speedometer displays 145 mph.
The flagship Performance variant also offers a 310-mile range, and it takes merely 3.2 seconds to reach 60 mph from a stop, so nothing has changed on the specifications sheet, but the price of the Tesla Model 3 was bumped by $1,000 to $56,990. The final tweak is a visual one. The Performance’s 20-inch wheels are now dark gray instead of bright. The brighter wheels still appear on the configurator, but they can’t be selected, so they’re presumably no longer available.
The aforementioned prices don’t include incentives. Tesla buyers are eligible to receive up to $1,875 as a tax credit from the federal government. Some states will happily increase that amount in a bid to convince motorists to ditch gasoline. Motorists who want to claim anything at all from the federal government need to act quickly; the amount available to Tesla buyers began gradually decreasing after it sold its 200,000th car in July 2018, and the credit will disappear on January 1, 2020.
Editors' Recommendations Volvo EM90 electric minivan: price, release date, range, and more Kia EV5: rumored pricing, design, range, features, and more The BMW i4 is more luxurious than the Tesla Model S, and costs way less Tesla Model 3 vs. Hyundai Ioniq 6: Which electric sedan is best? Tesla launches more affordable Model S and Model X, but there’s a catch News Tech News Cars Much of the focus in the EV world has been on striving for affordability, but there's one electric car that's going the opposite direction. The Cadillac Celestiq is built to be a head-turner, and it may serve as the EV to get for those who don't mind spending ... a lot.
The Celestiq will be unique for more reasons than just its price tag. Unlike other electric cars, the Celestiq will be built by hand to order -- and Cadillac says there's no limit to the kinds of customizations that customers will be able to make. In other words, we may soon see some very expensive, very flashy Celestiqs at some point in the future.
Cars The Electra is making a comeback. Buick has announced that it's bringing back the classic Electra -- but unlike the gas-powered Electra last seen in 1990, the new car is set to be Buick's first electric offering. The first of the new Electra models is set to be the 2025 Electra E5 SUV, a car that's powered by General Motors' Ultium platform, and should be another long-range electric car that doesn't break the bank -- at least compared to the competition.
The car has been announced, but there's still a lot we don't know about the Buick Electra. Here's everything we do know about it so far.
Buick Electra price Unfortunately, one of the things we don't yet know about the Buick Electra is its price. While Buick has released some details about the car in general, it hasn't disclosed anything about what the car will ultimately cost.
Cars It hasn't always been a great time to buy an electric SUV, but that's finally changing. The Rivian R1S is here and the Kia EV9 is on the way to the U.S. soon. But there's another option coming, and it could end up proving itself as a great option for those who like Volvo's style and tech. The Volvo EX90 is a cousin to the ultra-low-cost EX30 and offers the same Scandinavian sense of style, combined with high-tech features and good electric range.
The EX90 isn't here yet though. While Volvo has announced the car and a number of its features, there's still a lot to learn about it. Curious to learn more? Here's everything we know about the Volvo EX90 so far.
Volvo EX90 price The Volvo EX30 is set to be one of the cheapest electric cars on the market, but don't expect the Volvo EX90 to be similar. The EX90 is expected to start at around $80,000, which puts it in direct competition with the likes of the Rivian R1S. That could make it a tough sell against an arguably more high-tech option.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
