Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Cars Features No mere EV, the sensor-stuffed EX90 is Volvo’s towering tech flagship By Stephen Edelstein Close Volvo has reinvented its image over the past decade, taking its cars from stodgy to stylish, and keeping pace with tech developments. Now, it’s trying to do that once again.
Stylish and sustainable Next-level sensor tech A watchful eye A smarter infotainment design Kilowatts wherever you need them Serious about the EV future The 2024 Volvo EX90 is the Swedish automaker’s new flagship — and it’s electric. This three-row, seven-seat SUV packs all of Volvo’s latest infotainment and safety tech, so its electric powertrain is an important statement of Volvo’s commitment to going all-electric in the future.
The EX90 isn’t a standalone EV. Its styling and tech will set the tone for future Volvos. The business case isn’t EV-specific either. The EX90 has the same form factor as Volvo’s popular XC90 SUV, which it one-ups in tech. Volvo isn’t trying to prove that it can make an EV; it’s already done that with the XC40 Recharge and C40 Recharge.
 It’s just trying to make a good car.
The Lucid Gravity has more range than any other electric SUV Acura’s resurrected ZDX SUV is an EV shortcut Volvo EX90 price, range, release date, specs, and more “There are no gimmicks in the EX90.” Volvo Cars CEO Jim Rowan said in a keynote at the EV’s reveal in Stockholm. “All the technology that’s there is there for a reason.” And boy, is there a lot of it.
Stylish and sustainable The EX90 is a conventional SUV design with the sharp edges shaved away. There isn’t even a hint of a grille, the door handles sit flush with the bodywork, and the wheels have smooth inserts between the spokes. It’s all to help minimize aerodynamic drag — an important consideration for an EV, as it helps increase range.
The result is a coefficient of drag (Cd) of 0.29, compared to 0.33 for the current Volvo XC90 three-row SUV (lower numbers are better). The EX90 isn’t the slipperiest electric SUV around; the Mercedes-Benz EQS SUV has a 0.26 Cd. But Volvo’s designers retained a more traditional SUV shape, in line with the gasoline Volvo XC90, without resorting to the Jell-O mold shape of the Mercedes.
“The profile and a bit of the plan view is a bit rounder than maybe we’ve done in the past,” Volvo exterior design boss T. Jon Mayer told Digital Trends. “It’s not a jellybean blob by any means, but there are very minute details of how much roundness you put around the edges. This detail work, as well as a longer rear overhang, help keep air flowing smoothly around the car while following the minimalist ethos of Scandinavian design, keeping the bodywork visually clean.
The EX90 is a conventional SUV design with the sharp edges shaved away.
The interior has the same minimalist look as current Volvos, but with a greater emphasis on sustainable materials. Trim pieces are made from Nordico, a mix of recycled PET plastic bottles and biomaterial sourced from Swedish and Finnish forests.
“It’s actually driven by the design department,” Henrik Green, Volvo’s head of global advanced technology and sustainability, told Digital Trends, noting that designers are always looking to try new and different materials. Volvo claims the EX90 has about 15% recycled plastic, 15% recycled steel, and 25% recycled aluminum — the most recycled content in any Volvo production car to date, Green claims. That helps further reduce this electric SUV’s carbon footprint.
Next-level sensor tech Sensors enable today’s driver-assist systems, and automakers promise that they’ll lay the foundation for tomorrow’s self-driving cars. The EX90 takes a step toward that future as the first Volvo with integrated lidar. This sensor technology, which works on the same principle as radar , but uses light instead radio waves, is already used by most developers of self-driving cars. Volvo believes lidar will enable “unsupervised autonomous driving” capability to be added through an over-the-air (OTA) update at some future date.
But engineers and designers had to figure out where to put a lidar unit on a vehicle already crammed with five radar sensors, eight cameras, and 16 ultrasonic sensors.
The EX90 is the first Volvo with integrated lidar.
“I remember getting this and thinking, ‘oh my, where are we going to hide this,’” Mayer said about the Luminar Iris lidar unit. Designers originally considered placing it in the grille, where other sensors are located, but engineers asked for it to be mounted as high up as possible to maximize the field of view. A mounting location behind the windshield was also ruled out because it would have blocked the dispersal of light particles at certain angles. So the lidar sits in an aerodynamic fairing on the roof, putting the technology on display and, Volvo claims, allowing the sensor to see up to 820 feet ahead.
For now, the lidar and other sensors will help improve performance in Volvo’s existing array of driver-assist features, such as the Pilot Assist highway driving system. At least until that promised autonomous driving upgrade arrives, that is.
A watchful eye The sensors don’t just look outside the vehicle. The EX90’s standard “driver understanding system” tracks the driver’s gaze to detect distraction, drowsiness, or intoxication. Other automakers have their own driver-monitoring systems, but they generally just track where the driver is looking. Volvo claims its system monitors patterns to better gauge a driver’s state of mind. It also uses two cameras (at different angles) instead of the single camera of most other systems, and is tied into the car’s driver aids, allowing the car to respond on its own.
Like driver monitoring, Volvo took occupant sensing to a new level. Many automakers offer rear-seat reminders to prevent drivers from leaving children or pets unattended, but Volvo added in-car radar units that can detect a sleeping infant’s breathing. They cover the entire passenger compartment and the trunk, and are connected to the climate control, which can be automatically turned on to reduce the risk of hypothermia or heatstroke, Volvo claims.
A smarter infotainment design A 14.5-inch touchscreen and 9.0-inch instrument cluster feature graphics generated by Epic Games’ Unreal Engine. The EX90 runs an updated version of the Google Built-in infotainment system previously seen in other Volvos.
 It has the capabilities of Android Auto , such as Google Maps and Google Assistant voice control, plus a few extras, like the ability to sync with home Google devices and access the Google Play app store.
Apple CarPlay is supported as well, along with 5G connectivity and a digital key feature that lets drivers use a smartphone in place of a standalone key fob.
On the digital instrument cluster, Volvo used a familiar layout, but tried to decrease distraction and confusion. For example, the thin instrument cluster only displays relevant information; you won’t get an icon for your headlights or wipers unless you actually turn them on or off. And if you’re using navigation and move to a different menu on the main touchscreen, an icon stays at the top of the screen so you can get back to the map easily.
For the main touchscreen, Volvo’s designers also selected a large map up top and a fixed bar for functions like climate control at the bottom. That’s a layout we’ve seen before, but it’s also the best one for clearly conveying information, Volvo claims. The map is placed up high because testing has shown that it’s better for visual processing, while climate controls occupy the bottom of the screen because that’s ergonomically advantageous, Anna Arasa, UX design manager for the EX90, told Digital Trends, noting that the touchpoints land where hands tend to rest.
Kilowatts wherever you need them A dual-motor all-wheel drive system provides 408 horsepower and 568 pound-feet of torque in its standard configuration, and 503 hp and 671 lb.-ft. of torque for the performance version. Volvo quotes zero to 60 mph times of 5.7 seconds and 4.7 seconds for the standard and performance versions, respectively. As with all Volvos, the EX90 is electronically limited to 112 mph — another of the automaker’s safety policies.
A 111-kilowatt-hour battery pack provides an estimated 300 miles of range. DC fast charging at 250 kilowatts allows for a 10% to 80% charge in 30 minutes, and the EX90 will support Plug and Charge, meaning you can plug into a public charger and automatically start charging without manually entering a payment method (this feature may not be available at launch, though). Volvo expects its customers to charge at home most of the time, but hasn’t said how long it will take to replenish electrons with an AC home charger.
The EX90 will also be the first Volvo (but not the first EV) with bidirectional charging, allowing it to discharge power from its battery pack to run electronic devices or even charge other EVs. When plugged into a Volvo-supplied home charger and home energy management system, it can also help power your house, or send power back to the grid — reducing stress on electricity-generating infrastructure. That will require some coordination with utilities, however.
Serious about the EV future Volvo says a well-equipped EX90 will be available for under $80,000, putting the seven-seat EV in the same ballpark as the current seven-seat XC90 Recharge plug-in hybrid. Deliveries aren’t expected to begin until early 2024. Customers can pre-order now for priority in the delivery queue, but won’t be asked to configure their builds until fall 2023, around the time production is expected to start at Volvo’s Ridgeville, South Carolina, factory.
The Volvo XC90 will continue to be sold with mild-hybrid and plug-in hybrid powertrains. With charging infrastructure still an unsolved problem, the XC90 will likely remain a more practical choice for many buyers. But the momentum has clearly shifted to the all-electric EX90.
Instead of another gasoline SUV, Volvo chose to roll out its latest tech — from lidar to passenger-monitoring radar — in an EV. Yet the EX90 still looks and feels like a Volvo, evolving the style the XC90 introduced. The EX90’s tech and design elements will trickle down to other Volvo EVs, starting with an SUV smaller than the current XC40 launching in 2023 and continuing until 2030, when Volvo plans to have an all-electric lineup, per Volvo Car USA CEO Andres Gustafsson. Most automakers now claim to be interested in EVs, but looking at the EX90, it seems Volvo really believes they are the future.
Editors' Recommendations Cadillac aims to balance its lineup with a small electric SUV How do you crash-test an EV with an 871-pound battery? Mercedes showed us Everything is bigger in Cadillac’s electric Escalade IQ Starting under $40K, Volvo’s compact EX30 will be its most affordable EV, and its fastest Mercedes-Maybach EQS SUV is old-school luxury — electrified Features Volvo Cars As Mercedes-Benz has steadily expanded its EQ range of electric cars, the lineup has become a bit like the late stages of a Tetris game. It’s mostly complete, but with a few gaps still left. And the 2023 Mercedes-Benz EQE SUV is the piece that perfectly fits one of them.
Mercedes recently launched two other electric SUVs at opposite ends of the price spectrum. The EQS SUV is positioned as the lineup’s flagship, while the EQB is the entry-level model. The EQE SUV slots between those two in size and, presumably, price. The latter hasn’t been confirmed yet, and likely won’t be until the EQE SUV’s planned March 2023 on-sale date.
Design As the name says, the EQE SUV is a utility-vehicle version of the EQE sedan, which will likely beat it to showrooms by a few months. Mercedes did the same thing with the EQS, which is available in both SUV and sedan body styles.
With its tall, upright profile, the EQE SUV definitely looks like a proper SUV compared to the low-slung EQE sedan. Park it next to an EQS SUV, though, and you’ll have to get out a measuring tape to spot the differences.
The EQE SUV is 0.6 inch narrower and 1.2 inches lower than the EQS SUV, but the most significant difference is in length. The EQE SUV is 10.3 inches shorter than the EQS SUV, with a 2.1-inch shorter wheelbase. And while the EQS SUV has three-row seating, the EQE SUV has two rows. Based on our experience with the EQS SUV’s third row, that’s not a big loss.
The interior design theme carries over from other Mercedes EQ models, with an expansive sloping dashboard designed to accommodate many screens, and multicolor ambient lighting that should look pretty dramatic at night. However, leatherette upholstery is standard, rather than real leather, which Mercedes is now spinning as a vegan option.
Cars For Volvo’s EV-focused Polestar spinoff brand, the third time really is the charm.
The brand’s first model, the Polestar 1 plug-in hybrid coupe, was built in low volumes and still had a combustion engine. The current Polestar 2 is a derivative of the Volvo C40 Recharge and XC40 Recharge. With the Polestar 3, the brand is really finding its footing.
Scheduled to go on sale in the fourth quarter of 2023, the Polestar 3 is the brand’s first SUV, and while it still shares much hardware and software with parent Volvo, it’s next-generation tech that’s blended with a unique design aesthetic and a greater emphasis on performance.
Design Where the Polestar 1 and Polestar 2 recycled styling from old Volvo concept cars, the five-seat Polestar 3 debuts a new brand-specific design language. The scrunched-up “face” and minimal air-intake opening advertise the 3’s electric powertrain, while the pinched rear side glass gives it a more streamlined appearance than other SUVs — particularly those of parent Volvo. The headlights look like an enlarged version of the “Thor’s Hammer” LED elements from current Volvos, however.
While not officially confirmed, the Polestar 3 is expected to be twinned with the Volvo EX90, the parent brand’s upcoming all-electric flagship SUV. Both are expected to use Volvo’s SPA2 platform, a successor to the SPA (Scalable Product Architecture) platform underpinning most current Volvo models.
Because eliminating tailpipe emissions doesn’t totally erase a vehicle’s environmental impact, Polestar also emphasized sustainable materials, such as wool upholstery that, the automaker claims, can be certified as sustainably produced. Polestar also plans to conduct a lifecycle assessment of the 3’s environmental impact when production starts, and follow up with additional assessments through the production run to look for ways of reducing its carbon footprint.
Cars Mercedes-Benz isn’t afraid of bold design, but not every luxury car shopper wants a vehicle that looks like a spaceship. Some Mercedes models are meant to be trendsetters, but the GLC-Class SUV is aimed at people who don’t need to be early adopters.
The GLC is a small SUV of the type that’s become the default for many buyers. So while the redesigned 2023 Mercedes-Benz GLC-Class gets notable features like a redesigned infotainment system, “transparent hood” camera system, and mild-hybrid powertrain, it’s all packaged in a way that looks familiar.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
