Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Cars Features Starting under $40K, Volvo’s compact EX30 will be its most affordable EV, and its fastest By Stephen Edelstein Close Image used with permission by copyright holder Electric cars aren’t just an opportunity for automakers to be friendlier to the planet. They’re an opportunity to try something new. That’s what Volvo is doing with its new EX30 crossover SUV.
Smaller is better Refined design Hot rod Volvo No skimping on safety tech A small car that’s a big deal The EX30 essentially represents a third stage of evolution for Volvo’s EVs. The Swedish automaker started with the XC40 Recharge and C40 Recharge , two EVs based on an existing internal-combustion architecture. It then showed the EX90, which was designed from the ground up as an EV, but in the image of the gasoline-powered Volvo XC90. Now, we get to see what an EV can look like with all the gasoline baggage shed.
Scheduled to reach U.S. dealerships in summer 2024 as a 2025 model, the EX30 is the smallest Volvo — and the cheapest. While it doesn’t qualify for a federal EV tax credit (unless Volvo chooses to exploit a leasing loophole), the EX30’s starting price of $36,145 is impressive for any EV right now, let alone one from a high-end brand like Volvo.
The compact XC40 crossover will kick off Volvo’s electric-car push Smaller is better Volvo’s history with small cars is full of wacky experiments like the 480 and C30, but not much success. Volvo finally hit on a winning formula with the XC40, but by introducing the smaller EX30 (it’s about eight inches shorter than the XC40), the automaker is throwing that away and entering unfamiliar territory.
Prioritizing a small car is also an interesting play for a premium brand. While Mercedes-Benz has its EQB and European-market EQA, the German automaker is putting more effort into high-end models. BMW has indicated it will offer affordable EVs at some point, but right now it’s filling out its lineup what electric versions of its traditional luxury models, like the 5 Series and 7 Series.
 Yet, a more affordable model made business sense to Volvo.
“You see a general trend of downsizing in society,” Björn Annwall, chief commercial officer and deputy CEO of Volvo Cars, told Digital Trends. Annwall said that trend already includes internal-combustion cars, noting higher-than-expected demand for Volvo’s XC40. A small EV makes even more sense, he said, because he expects customers to use a vehicle of this size as their second car — making range anxiety less of an issue.
Image used with permission by copyright holder This unorthodox strategy should be beneficial to customers, who will have a new sub-$40,000 EV to consider at a time when affordable EVs are all too rare. But Volvo claims it will also be beneficial for the planet. Because in addition to being Volvo’s smallest model, the EX30is aimed at having the smallest carbon footprint of any vehicle wearing the automaker’s Iron Mark logo.
EVs have zero “tailpipe” emissions, but that doesn’t count emissions generated by building them. Volvo aims to tackle this by using less steel and aluminum — another benefit of a smaller car — as well as more recycled or sustainable content, and by working with parts suppliers to increase renewable energy use in their manufacturing operations. The EX30 itself will be assembled in a factory powered by “high levels of climate-neutral energy, including 100% climate-neutral electricity,” according to Volvo. All this adds up to an estimated 25% reduction in life cycle carbon emissions from the current XC40 Recharge and C40 Recharge EVs.
Refined design The EX30 moves Volvo’s styling forward. The scrunched-up shape is reminiscent of the XC40, and makes the EX30 seem like it’s trying to act tough despite its small size. At the back, broader rear fenders mean Volvo’s signature vertical taillights have been divided into two sections, giving the EX30 a distinctive, if unusual, look from behind.
At the front, the EX30 adopts the pixelated take on Volvo’s “Thor’s Hammer” LED headlights previously seen on its bigger sibling, the EX90. But the traditional grille shape has been largely erased, making it clearer that the EX30 is an EV. Big, rounded wheel arches contrast the straight body sides, giving the sheet metal some nice definition and ensuring the EX30 isn’t a shapeless blob.
For buyers who want their SUV to look as rugged as possible, an EX30 Cross Country variant will follow the standard version to showrooms in 2024. It gets a similar treatment to previous Volvo Cross Country models, including bigger wheels, an elevated ride height, and additional black exterior cladding — the automotive equivalent of wearing hiking boots to Starbucks.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Like the exterior, the interior goes a little bit further down the path started by previous Volvo models. Minimalism has been a Volvo motif for some time, but the EX30 takes a step further by discarding the instrument cluster entirely, like a Tesla Model 3. There isn’t much besides a steering wheel and large vertical touchscreen. The stark interior trim is made from recycled materials, including denim from discarded jeans.
Volvo also moved the glovebox and window controls to the center console, while most of the audio system’s speakers take up residence in a soundbar on the dashboard. It’s all in the name of reducing material use and keeping costs down. Annwall, the Volvo chief commercial officer, believes this simplistic layout will win over customers, calling large numbers of screens “gimmicky.” But customers used to traditional cockpit layouts will have to relearn a lot.
Hot rod Volvo For the U.S., the EX30 base model will be the Single Motor Extended Range, good for an estimated 275 miles per charge from a 69-kilowatt-hour battery pack with 64 kWh of usable capacity that uses nickel manganese cobalt (NMC) chemistry. A second battery option using lithium-iron-phosphate (LiFePO4) chemistry will be available in other markets. The single motor sends 268 horsepower and 253 pound-feet of torque to the rear wheels, enabling a Volvo-estimated zero-to-60-mph time of 5.1 seconds.
Alternatively, a Twin Motor Performance version gets the same battery pack and adds a second motor driving the front axle for all-wheel drive. Output from the two motors is 422 hp and 400 lb.-ft. of torque. Estimated range drops to 265 miles, but the zero-to-60-mph time also shrinks to an estimated 3.4 seconds — making this the quickest-accelerating Volvo production car ever. It also matches the factory-estimated zero-to-60 mph time of the six-figure Lucid Air Touring.
Charging performance is just as important in the real world, and here the specs paint a picture of mere adequacy. Volvo says the Twin Motor Performance model can DC fast charge at up to 153 kilowatts, allowing for a 10% to 80% charge in “a little over 26.5 minutes.” That’s the bare minimum for acceptability in today’s EV market, and it will be downright disappointing if the EX30 can’t hit that power rate and charge time in regular use.
No skimping on safety tech Volvo built its reputation on safety, and while the automaker is light on details right now, it promises the EX30 will have a similar level of safety tech to its more expensive models. Highlights will include a feature designed to prevent drivers from opening the door into the path of an approaching cyclist (using sensors in the rear bumper to detect approaching two-wheeled traffic) and a new park-assist system that can maneuver the EX30 into parallel, perpendicular, and diagonal spaces.
Cost-cutting didn’t extend to infotainment tech. The EX30 runs a Google built-in infotainment system similar to other Volvo models, with the same chip as the larger and fancier EX90.
 While the user experience is Google-heavy, wireless Apple CarPlay will also be available. So will digital key functionality, allowing drivers to use a smartphone instead of a key fob, and over-the-air update capability.
A small car that’s a big deal The EX30 counters a troubling trend in EVs that’s seen the pricing of models from mainstream brands creep up into luxury territory. Despite its reputation as a value brand, Hyundai feels comfortable starting its Ioniq 6 at $42,715 while letting pricing rise to nearly $60,000 for a range-topping version. The 2023 Kia EV6 starts at $43,925, but the cheapest version is only available on a limited basis, and only has 232 miles of range. Volvo, on the other hand, plans to sell a lot of EX30s.
“This will be one of our top-volume models in the U.S.,” Michael Cottone, president of Volvo Car USA and Canada, said in a roundtable interview, adding that Volvo intends to sell the EX30 in all 50 states. And while accountants are likely expecting higher-priced variants to pad the bottom line, many of the things that make the EX30 affordable are baked right in, from the smaller quantities of materials used to build it, to the simplified interior, to the basic architecture shared with multiple brands from Volvo parent Geely.
The EX30’s base price is a breath of fresh air. Volvo doesn’t have to make an affordable EV. It’s well established as a luxury brand and U.S. car shoppers are more than willing to pay a premium for it’s vehicles. And any automaker can point to things like high battery prices and the cost of retooling for EVs to justify higher prices. So it’s truly remarkable that, while mainstream brands deprioritize affordability, it’s Volvo that’s coming to the rescue.
Editors' Recommendations No mere EV, the sensor-stuffed EX90 is Volvo’s towering tech flagship Features Volvo Cars Lucid Motors has become the latest automaker to announce that it will adopt the North American Charging Standard (NACS) – also known as "the Tesla plug" – for its electric vehicles.
The move follows in the footsteps of more than a dozen other automakers that have also adopted Tesla’s charging connector, among them General Motors, Ford, Toyota, BMW, Jaguar Land Rover, Volvo, and Honda.
Cars General Motors-owned Cruise has halted production of its fully driverless vehicle -- the Origin -- just over a week after it suspended robotaxi operations nationwide following a number of troubling incidents involving its cars.
The news was announced by Cruise CEO Kyle Vogt during a meeting with staff on Monday, according to Forbes, which obtained audio of the gathering.
Cars The Ram brand is finally taking an electrified approach, and by resurrecting the Ramcharger name, no less. Alongside the new 2025 Ram 1500, the company has unveiled the new 2025 Ram 1500 Ramcharger, a new plug-in hybrid that Ram touts as offering "unlimited battery electric range." The new truck is one of a number of electrified trucks, the most well-known of which include the fully-electric Ford F-150 Lightning and the new Chevrolet Silverado EV. But instead of being fully electric, the 1500 Ramcharger is a plug-in hybrid, meaning that it has an electric motor and battery, and a gas tank and engine.
The plug-in approach It's perhaps a smart move. Electric trucks show a lot of promise -- but they start to falter a little when it comes to things like towing and hauling heavy loads. Keeping the 1500 Ramcharger a hybrid means that with no load or light ones, the truck can zip around town on electric power -- and when necessary, it can switch the engine on to tow or haul. It could well be the perfect combo for many truck owners who at least occasionally need that extra oomph, but who still could stand to save some cash -- and go a little easier on the environment - when simply driving around town.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
