Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Cars News Bask in the green glow of the XC40 Recharge, Volvo’s first electric car By Adam Kaslikowski Close Image used with permission by copyright holder Update: The 2021 Volvo XC40 Recharge is an all-electric version of the Volvo XC40 crossover, which launched for the 2019 model year. While it comes with a not-insignificant price tag, our complete first drive review of the 2021 Volvo XC40 Recharge finds it well worth it.
Here it is in all its glory — Volvo’s first fully electric vehicle. The 2020 Volvo XC40 Recharge charts a new path for the Swedish carmaker, while still retaining and expanding its famous focus on safety. Add in a dash of Scandinavian design and we have a winner on our hands.
Based on the conventional XC40, the EV version swaps out the four-cylinder engine for a battery pack and two electric motors (one front and one rear) setup boasting 408hp and 0 to 60 mph in 4.9 seconds. The 78kwh battery can be quick-charged to 80% in just 40 minutes. Once fully charged, the XC40 Recharge is good for 400 kilometers or 200 miles of range – you might realize that those two numbers are not actually equivalent. 400 kilometers is actually 248 miles, which makes the Recharge much more competitive. It is currently unclear why Volvo is claiming 400km but only 200 miles, and we will update you when we learn more.
The fastest electric cars, ranked by 0-60 mph acceleration Lamborghini teases its first all-electric supercar ahead of Friday’s big reveal Volvo EX30 price, range, release date, specs, and more During the reveal , Volvo also announced that customers will receive an entire year of free charging. This will be done by a check at the end of the year for the average price of electricity over that time. Again, just like the range, a strange way to do things but this is how Volvo is doing it.
No price has been announced yet, but CTO Henrik Green told Digital Trends the Recharge will be “the only [luxury] SUV EV in this price range” and indicated that the price “will be closer to $50,000 than $100,000.” While the Hyundai NEXO is both an electric SUV and in this price range, Mr. Green does not consider that to be competition because of Volvo’s luxury brand presence.
Volvo Cars CEO Håkan Samuelsson told us that he wants to make sustainability as associated with the Volvo brand as safety is now. To that end, he aims to have 10-20% of all Volvos sold in the next few years to be hybrid of full electric. They also pledged to reduce their company carbon footprint (from raw materials, through to factory emissions and even individual car emissions) by 40% by 2025. He also shared that by 2025, all Volvos will be available in pure electric form. Fingers crossed for that one. On the movement from gasoline power to EV, he said “One you have an electric car, you won’t go back to conventional.” The new XC40 Recharge streamlines the body and the interior of the standard XC40, while including a new 30-liter trunk where the engine used to be. Showcased in two-tone paint with a black roof and lower body sandwiching the pearl white bodyline. It is a nice blend of new- and old-school design.
The interior comes with plenty of cubby holes, recycled carpet, and a fully native Android OS infotainment system.
 This means the system will come pre-loaded with Google Maps , Assistant, and the Play Store to download more automotive-themed apps all without your phone. And don’t worry, if you’re an iPhone user you can still plug in your phone to enjoy CarPlay. As is Volvo’s style, the interior is a palace of tasteful and modern design.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The electric XC40 is the first Volvo that will receive software and operating system updates over the air. “We are finally giving you the same experience in your car that you’re used to on your phone, but adapted for safe interaction while driving,” Henrik Green, chief technology officer at Volvo Cars, said in a statement. “And by introducing over-the-air updates for everything from maintenance to completely new features, the car can stay as fresh as your other digital products, always with the latest and greatest features.” The XC40 also touts the next generation of safety sensors, with its Advanced Driver Assistance Systems (ADAS) sensor platform. This safety system consists of an array of radars, cameras and ultrasonic sensors. This system can easily be developed further for the future introduction of autonomous driving capability. But no love there quite yet.
Volvo has been making cars for 90 years, and the XC40 Recharge plots their course for the next 90.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Editors' Recommendations Volvo EM90 electric minivan: price, release date, range, and more Big EVs are almost here: 7 upcoming electric SUVs we’re excited for Volvo EX90 price, range, release date, specs, and more The cheapest electric cars you can buy Starting under $40K, Volvo’s compact EX30 will be its most affordable EV, and its fastest News Tech News Volvo Cars 2024 BMW i5 BMW The new 2024 BMW 5 Series is two cars in one. On one hand, there's the eighth-generation gasoline-powered sedan that will represent the bulk of sales in most markets. On the other hand, for the first time in the nameplate's long history, there's an electric version called i5.
Cars As we head into a world of electric cars, charging is the biggest concern for many first-time buyers. It makes sense. While the hype for electric cars themselves is arguably justified, the biggest drawback is the fact that you have to charge them, and right now, that can be a bit of a hassle.
That’s not only because of the fact that you have to wait to charge — but also because of the fact that there are different types of electric car chargers, and you may not be able to charge an electric car with all of those different types.
Cars Electric cars have come a long way over the past few years. Gone are the days when the thought of an electric car was a novelty — these days, EVs are common, (mostly) available, and for the most part, refined.
But they’re also still relatively expensive, especially for a good one. That’s exactly why you might be thinking about buying a used one.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
