Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing News A typo is ruining this $700 Asus motherboard — but there’s a fix By Jacob Roach Close Asus Everyone makes mistakes, but some are more costly than others. Asus is finding itself with a mistake on its hands, as its expensive ROG Maximus Z790 Hero EVA-02 motherboard features an embarrassing spelling mistake.
On the left side of the board is a screen, and the font along it reads “evangenlion,” not “evangelion.” Several users have discovered the error after receiving the $700 limited edition motherboard, which is the second design Asus has created in collaboration with the anime Neon Genesis Evangelion.
 The first EVA-01 design had “evangelion” spelled correctly. It also seems the problem goes much deeper than a couple of motherboards.
@ASUS_ROG EVANGENLION? (Maximus Z790) pic.twitter.com/9MSUunjxGu &mdash; Hal Rafael (@halrafael) November 12, 2023 You can spot the typo on Asus’ product page for the motherboard. And although news of it is breaking now, it’s not a new problem. A month ago, YouTuber CEHunter uploaded an unboxing video of the motherboard where you can also spot the typo.
There’s a good chance Asus only created a limited number of these motherboards given its high pricing. The motherboard retails for $700, but you can’t buy it directly from Asus now. You can only find it secondhand, with prices ranging from $1,000 to over $1,500.
‘Compact Mode’ can’t fix the Xbox app. Here’s what could It’s time to stop ignoring your motherboard when building a PC AMD’s new laptop CPU is the fastest I’ve seen, but you shouldn’t buy it yet It appears that the only instance of the typo is on the left side of the motherboard. The Z790 board is adorned with Evangelion logos all around, each of which are spelled correctly. It seems these are static logos, while the bit where there’s a typo was an extra added by Asus.
As careless as it is for a typo to appear on such an expensive motherboard, it could rise to the level of collector infamy. In a Reddit thread that pointed out the error, one user said “it’s kind of endearing.” Although the typo ruins the design of the EVA-02 motherboard, it’s still Asus’ flagship motherboard. This is an ROG Maximus Z790 Hero motherboard underneath all of the Evangelion branding, which is still a $700 motherboard on its own. It features a 20 + 1 + 2 VRM design, support for PCIe 5.0 SSDs, Wi-Fi 7, and more USB ports than you’ll know what to do with. It’s one of the best motherboards you can buy — just skip the EVA-02 design.
Thankfully, Asus is addressing the problem. The company posted a statement , promising to provide users with a replacement part with the correct spelling. Asus is also extending the warranty by one year, allowing users with the original motherboard to get it fixed up.
Editors' Recommendations Steam Deck OLED fixes the worst part of Valve’s handheld SteelSeries’ new mic is better than my $700 setup I review gaming laptops professionally — these are the only two you should buy in 2023 Asus just embarrassed everyone with its new gaming keyboard A major Asus ROG Ally challenger could be in the works PC PC Gaming Tech News Computing You wouldn't suspect that a mod like Portal: Prelude RTX would debut such a major piece of kit for the future of PC gaming. But lo and behold -- it's the first game we've seen with Nvidia's new RTX IO, a feature that was announced nearly three years ago.
It's not as flashy as ray tracing or DLSS, operating in the background and offering a slew of benefits without drawing attention to them. But according to my testing, RTX IO may have a bigger impact on PC gaming than any other RTX features.
What is RTX IO? Portal: Prelude RTX | RTX IO Off vs On Comparison – Cake Scene Computing Ever since Asus announced its ROG Ally, there has been a frenzy of comparisons to the Steam Deck and other handheld devices. But one area where the ROG Ally is truly unique is that you can go beyond the hardware inside the device. Asus' XG Mobile promises more power over a single, chunky cable, and can transform the ROG Ally from a handheld into a full-fledged desktop. In theory, at least.
It works; pick up the XG Mobile, plug in the ROG Ally, and you have access to desktop levels of performance out of a tiny handheld. There's much more to this setup than performance, though, and the more I used the ROG Ally with the XG Mobile, the clearer that became.
A failure of software Computing Asus is taking advantage of its ROG Strix cooler design for RTX 40-series graphics cards, all the way down to the measly RTX 4060. Asus is turning what should be a compact, two-slot GPU into a 3.1-slot behemoth, matching the size of its already massive RTX 4090 Strix model.
In fairness to Asus, the RTX 4060 model is slightly smaller: 3.1 slots compared to 3.5 slots on the RTX 4090 version. Regardless, that's a massive cooler for a relatively tame graphics card. This isn't the recently released RTX 4060 Ti -- though that one is getting the triple-slot treatment as well -- but the upcoming RTX 4060, which is slated to launch in July.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
