Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best HP laptop Black Friday deals happening right now By Albert Bassili Close As Black Friday quickly approaches and the whole month of November is treated as a sales event, now is the perfect time to pick up a laptop, especially if you missed out during Prime Day. Luckily, HP has some great early Black Friday deals you can take advantage of, and you might also consider Amazon Black Friday laptop deals ; whether you want something for work or gaming, there are quite a few options. We’ve collected some of our favorite deals across the board, but it is always worth checking out these Dell Black Friday deals for alternatives. Everything on this list comes straight from HP, but it’s worth checking out Best Buy Black Friday laptop deals and Amazon Black Friday deals for more options.
Best HP Laptop Black Friday Deals Best HP Chromebook Black Friday Deals Best HP Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Best HP Laptop Black Friday Deals Mark Coppock / Digital Trends HP has a lot of great budget-oriented laptops, so if you’re looking for something that won’t impact your wallet too much, going for one of these Black Friday laptop deals below is a good idea. That said, keep in mind that their lower-tier laptops tend to have a lot of similarities, with only slight changes in specifications here and there, so it might be worth looking at our laptop buying guide for some help. Even so, we’ve done our best to pick the deals that we find are the best when balancing costs with specifications.
HP Laptop 15 — HP Laptop 14 — HP Laptop 17 — HP Pavilion x360 Convertible 15 — HP Pavilion 15 — HP Laptop 17 — HP Pavilion Plus 14 — HP Envy x360 2-in-1 15 — HP Envy Laptop 17 — HP Envy Laptop 16 — Best HP Chromebook Black Friday Deals Mark Coppock/Digital Trends / Mark Coppock/Digital Trends The biggest issue with budget-oriented laptops is that Windows 11 tends to be quite resource-hungry, so lower-end laptops struggle to run Windows unless it’s in the reduced S mode. A good alternative is Chromebooks since ChromeOS is much more lightweight, so the same specifications can go further. That said, you don’t get access to the Windows ecosystem, which can be a dealbreaker for some. We’ve compiled a full list of Black Friday Chromebook deals if this sounds like your jam.
HP Chromebook 14a-ne0047nr — HP Chromebook 15at-na000 — HP Chromebook 14a-na1097nr — HP Fortis 14-g10 — HP Chromebook 15a-nb0097nr — HP Elite c640 14 — HP Chromebook Plus x360 14 — HP Elite c645 14 G2 — HP Elite Dragonfly — Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
Best HP Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Jacob Roach / Digital Trends HP also makes some great gaming laptops under their Vitus and Omen brands, and they’re surprisingly thin, too, for gaming laptops, which is always nice to see. You also get the chance to customize some of these, so if you want a bit more RAM or a different GPU, you can certainly do that. On the other hand, there aren’t as many options on the lower end, so even if you grab HP’s cheapest gaming laptop, you’re still spending quite a bit. We have a full list of HP gaming laptop Black Friday deals if you’re focused on a gaming rig. If you want to expand beyond HP, there are other Black Friday gaming laptop deals out there.
Victus Gaming Laptop 16 with RTX 3050 — Victus Gaming Laptop 16 with RTX 4050 — Victus Gaming Laptop 16 with RTX 4050 — OMEN Gaming Laptop 16z with RTX 4060 — OMEN Transcend Laptop 16 with RTX 4070 — OMEN Laptop 17 with RTX 4080 — Editors' Recommendations 75 best Amazon Black Friday deals on laptops, TVs, Apple, and more Best Chromebook Black Friday deals on HP, Lenovo, and more Best Black Friday MacBook deals: Get an Apple laptop from $505 Don’t miss this Meta Quest 2 Black Friday deal — Save 17% The best Lenovo gaming laptop Black Friday deals right now Deals Web With so many Black Friday deals already under way, it can be tough to keep on top of everything. Walmart has dozens of different awesome deals so we've narrowed things down to the best Walmart Black Friday deals currently available. There's a little bit of everything here with discounts on TVs, headphones, laptops, coffee makers, and much more. The retailer is also having a massive Black Friday Lego sale. Whatever you're considering buying, keep reading while we take you through some great options.
Other retailers have started early too, so check out Amazon Black Friday deals and Best Buy Black Friday deals.
Web Best Buy is pulling out the big guns this Black Friday to compete with Amazon Black Friday deals, and we're seeing a lot of great deals across the board, whether you want a laptop, a vacuum cleaner, or a fitness tracker. Of course, there are a lot of deals to go through, so we've done our best to collect some of our favorite ones below so that you don't have to. We'll also be updating this page as more and better deals come along, so be sure to check back regularly. Also, be sure to check out the Walmart Black Friday sale, as it's also going all out in the hopes of competing with Amazon.
Top 3 Best Buy Black Friday Deals Nest Hub -- $60, was $100 Computing If you've been looking out for some of the cheapest Black Friday laptop deals, you're going to love what Best Buy has to offer. Currently, you can buy the sleek looking Lenovo Slim 3 Chromebook for $149 saving a huge $170 off the regular price of $319. Ideal for taking to class or on your commute, this is easily one of the better Black Friday deals at the moment. If you've been waiting to find the right Black Friday Chromebook deals, this is the time to hit buy. If you're not entirely sold, keep reading while we take you through what the Chromebook has to offer.
Why you should buy the Lenovo Slim 3 Chromebook As one of the better Lenovo laptop Black Friday deals, the Lenovo Slim 3 Chromebook is a tempting proposition if your budget is slight but you still want something decent for the price. It has a MediaTek Kompanio 520 processor along with 4GB of memory and 64GB of eMMC storage. Refreshingly and making it a bit more tempting for those after the best Chromebooks, it also has a 14-inch full HD touchscreen.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
