Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? This basic Brother printer is a fast fix for home office needs By Alan Truly Close $199.99 Fast 36 ppm printing Scans and copies are equally fast Paper tray olds 250 sheets ADF holds 50 sheets Four months of toner in trial subscription Needs extra room for ventilation Toner is a bit expensive in standard size Home-based businesses are quite common, and even if it’s a secondary source of income, it still might require as much paperwork as a dedicated office. That’s where a printer like the Brother DCPL2550DW can really shine.
Design Printing performance Special features Software and compatibility The price is right Is this the printer for you? It’s a low-cost black-and-white laser printer that can scan, copy, and print, providing all the paper-handling functions you need for a business. We tested the print and scan quality, speed, and ease of use to confirm its long-term value and to see if it can stand against the best printers you can buy.
What is a thermal printer, how they work, and do you need one? Best laser printer deals: HP, Epson, Xerox, Canon starting at $130 The most common Slack issues and how to fix them Design The Brother DCPL2550DW has a tapered design, with vents on both sides.
Alan Truly / Digital Trends As a workhorse printer, the Brother DCPL2550DW is big and sturdy. The textured charcoal and black color scheme is businesslike, and the tapered sides avoid a boxy look.
This is a budget all-in-one laser printer that has everything you need with no extras. The display is a small, two-line monochrome screen with navigation buttons on the side. The control panel is tilted upward at a convenient angle, but it isn’t adjustable.
The paper tray holds up to 250 sheets, and there’s also a manual feed tray for envelopes and small pages. Trays, bins, and paper-size sliders have labels or icons that are easy to understand.
The printer’s footprint is 16.1 inches wide by 15.7 inches deep. Since it has an automatic document feeder (ADF) on top, it stands 12.5 inches tall. The DCPL2550DW weighs 25.6 pounds, so it’s fairly easy to move despite the bulk.
It’s important to note that Brother suggests leaving four inches of clearance for ventilation. That means you’ll need 24 inches of space to center the 16 inches printer within. At the edge of a desk or table, you’d only need 20 inches.
Printing performance The Brother DCPL2550DW monochrome laser printer outputs 36 pages per minute.
Alan Truly / Digital Trends Laser printers are usually fast, and the Brother DCPL2550DW is a splendid example. It prints multipage documents at up to 36 pages per minute.
There are quality controls in the menu system, but everything looks good with the default settings. Text is crisp and graphics render well.
Printing labels and envelopes is simple with the manual feed tray. Everything worked as expected, with proper alignment and good quality.
The manual feed tray on the Brother DCPL2550DW monochrome laser printer is handy for envelopes and small labels.
Tracey Truly / Digital Trends You’ll notice a grainy, sometimes patchy look in photos. The quality is fairly standard for a monochrome laser printer that’s not designed to print pictures.
If you’re looking for a low-cost photo printer with color, Brother’s MFC-J1205W is a nice inkjet printer for home offices.
If you need text, bar codes, charts, and graphs, the Brother DCPL2550DW will roll out a thick report quickly and reliably.
Special features Scanning is just as quick as printing on the Brother DCPL2550DW monochrome laser printer.
Tracey Truly / Digital Trends The Brother DCPL2550DW is an all-in-one printer that can scan to your phone and computer. Like other all-in-ones, the print and scan features combine to make copies.
Scanning is just as quick as printing, enabling copies at 36 pages per minute. Scan quality is good, and the DCPL2550DW captures in color despite being a monochrome printer.
 Reductions and enlargements are available via a dedicated copy options button to the left of the display.
The ADF can take 50 sheets at a time and handles duplex scanning and printing with no trouble. You can even scan single-sided pages and output double-sided.
The flatbed scanner supports up to 1200 dpi resolution when scanning from a computer. Brother’s iPrint&Scan app supports 600 dpi. The ADF offers 600 dpi from computers and phones.
Software and compatibility It’s easiest to connect the Brother DCPL2550DW to Wi-Fi manually.
Tracey Truly / Digital Trends It’s best to set up the Brother DCPL2550DW manually. The mobile app couldn’t connect to the printer until I completed a network connection using the printer’s control panel.
You can connect via Wi-Fi, a USB, or Ethernet (cables not included). Wi-Fi is simple, quick, and reliable. It’s nice to have the option of a wired connection, though.
The Brother DCPL2550DW works with an iPhone, iPad, Android phone and tablet, Mac, Windows, and Linux. Chromebooks are compatible for printing, but not scanning.
To get the most control of a Brother printer from your phone, the iPrint&Scan app for your iPhone and Android phone helps with scanning, checking toner levels, and more. There aren’t many options, and sometimes it’s easier to use the system print options, but for a work-centric printer, the app handles anything you can’t do natively on your phone.
Windows and Mac will recognize the printer immediately, but for complete access to scanning functions, you should install the Brother software.
The price is right Brother includes a 700-page toner cartridge with the Brother DCPL2550DW monochrome laser printer.
Tracey Truly / Digital Trends At $199, the Brother DCPL2550DW is a fast and reliable office printer that will keep rolling through thousands of pages. Brother recommends up to 2,000 pages per month, but the printer has a maximum duty cycle of 15,000 pages.
It’s a low price for such a solid printer. That calls into question toner cost and long-term value.
Brother includes a 700-page starter cartridge, along with an offer of four months of free toner if you try the Brother Refresh subscription refill program.
If you choose to buy toner separately, a standard cartridge costs $45.49 and prints about 1,200 pages. A high-yield cartridge is $80.49 and provides 3,000 pages. That makes the cost per page for toner three cents to four cents.
That’s not bad for an inexpensive and fast black-and-white laser printer. If you order a two-pack of high-yield cartridges at $145, the cost drops to 2.4 cents per page, which is quite low.
Is this the printer for you? Brother’s DCPL2550DW checks all of the boxes for a home office/small business printer if you don’t need a more expensive color laser printer like HP’s LaserJet Pro 4301fdw.
 The DCPL2550DW is fast enough to handle big print jobs, and the 250-sheet paper tray keeps it rolling with few interruptions.
The small display makes navigation take longer than it would on a laser printer with a big touchscreen like the Canon imageClass MF275dw , but most functions are accessible from a computer or phone if you install the app.
The DCPL2550DW comes with a one-year warranty, and Brother says customers can get help via online chat or by phone for the life of the printer. The long-term costs are low if you order toner in bulk.
Editors' Recommendations Best color laser printers for 2023: tested and reviewed What is a monochrome printer, and do you need one? The best all-in-one printers you can buy in 2023 The most common Zoom problems and how to fix them The 4 best home printers Printer Reviews Product Reviews Work From Home Computing With more employees working from home, Hewlett-Packard is reinventing its business and technology services to serve their needs while also seeking to keep IT managers happy.
The company announced a new set of curated services called HP Work From Home that are designed to minimize downtime, provide support for PCs and printers, and help IT managers secure devices if they’re lost.
Computing Whatever you need to print, there’s a home printer that can do it. But knowing how to choose a printer isn't always easy, given the sheer number of options on the market. To help, we’ve put together a quick-and-dirty buying guide for selecting a home printer, with simple explanations of some of the most common terms, plus recommendations that will serve the majority of buyers.
Inkjet or laser? The first question all printer buyers must tackle comes down to a simple matter of what and how much you plan on printing. Inkjet printers use cartridges of ink that are applied wet to paper and rapidly dry, while laser printers use toner, a type of ink dust that bonds to paper for fast results and efficient resource use.
Computing Google has recently started shutting down the main functions of its Hangouts service, namely its messaging and voice calling features. If you've recently noticed that these features are no longer available to you or are limited in Hangouts, here's what you need to know about how to transition from Hangouts to other communication services that will still allow you to stay in contact with your friends and family.
Further reading Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
