Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Guides Call of Duty Modern Warfare 3: best settings, benchmarks, and more By Jacob Roach Close Modern Warfare 3 is a new bar for the franchise, at least in terms of visual quality. The highly scalable PC release can accommodate low-end systems, but if you’re looking to get the most mileage out of a midrange gaming PC , you’ll need the best settings for Modern Warfare 3.
Best settings for Modern Warfare 3 Modern Warfare 3 system requirements Is 8GB VRAM enough for Modern Warfare 3? Modern Warfare 3 benchmarks DLSS vs. FSR vs. XeSS in Modern Warfare 3 I’ve been putting the game through its paces for about a week, testing the various options in the graphics menu, as well as its slew of upscaling options. Here’s everything you need to know about Modern Warfare 3 ‘s performance on PC.
Best settings for Modern Warfare 3 Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Like previous Call of Duty releases, Modern Warfare 3 is absolutely stuffed with graphics settings. Even if you’re used to adjusting a graphics menu to get the best performance, Modern Warfare’ s options are absolutely dizzying. After our testing, though, here are the best settings for Modern Warfare 3 that I settled on: Render Resolution: 100 Dynamic Resolution: Off Upscaling: DLSS on RTX, XeSS otherwise VRAM Scale Target: 80 Variable Rate Shading: Off with DLSS/XeSS, On otherwise Texture Resolution: Normal Texture Filter Anisotropic : Normal Depth of Field: On Detail Quality Level: Normal Particle Resolution: Low Bullet Impacts: On Persistent Effects: Off Shader Quality: Medium On-Demand Texture Streaming: On Local Texture Streaming Quality: Normal Shadow Quality: Low Screen Space Shadows: Low Ambient Occlusion: Statis objects (GTAO) Screen Space Reflections: Normal Static Reflection Quality: Low Tessellation : Near Terrain Memory: Medium Volumetric Quality: Low Deferred Physics Quality: Low Weather Grid Volumes: Normal Water Quality: Wave Wetness We’re making most of the cuts to shadows and reflections. That’s not because they provide the best overall performance improvement — that goes to texture resolution, and I’ll dig into why in the benchmarks below — but because they don’t degrade the image quality as much. Even with the highest texture preset, there are some rough edges in Modern Warfare 3, and turning down the texture quality lower than what I have here is a sacrifice to image quality that’s just too big.
Baldur’s Gate 3 PC performance tested: best settings, DLSS, slow HDD mode, and more Valorant performance guide: best settings, fps boost, and more Returnal PC: best settings, ray tracing, Steam Deck, and more For performance, my optimized settings ended up just slightly faster than the Balanced preset, all while pushing a solid number of the settings higher. The benchmarks below don’t include any form of upscaling, but Modern Warfare 3 supports just about everything: DLSS, FSR 2, FSR 1, NIS, XeSS, and even its own built-in dynamic resolution.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends My recommended settings center around using DLSS for RTX GPUs and XeSS for everything else. As I’ll dig into later, XeSS has more stability than FSR 2, though FSR 2 is a bit sharper. The built-in dynamic resolution is best if the other upscaling tools won’t work with your GPU, but I don’t recommend it otherwise. For the vast majority of players, you’ll want to stick with DLSS or XeSS.
Modern Warfare 3 system requirements As expected from a Call of Duty release, Modern Warfare 3 is highly scalable. You’ll need a modern midrange rig to run the game at its recommended settings, but if you’re using an older system, you can still play the game without issues, much unlike the recent Alan Wake 2.
Minimum (MP Only) Minimum Recommended 4K Ultra CPU Intel Core i3-6100 or AMD Ryzen 3 1200 Intel Core i5-6600 or AMD Ryzen 5 1400 Intel Core i7-6700K or AMD Ryzen 5 1600X Intel Core i7-8700K or AMD Ryzen 7 2700X RAM 8GB 8GB 16GB 16GB Storage 79GB SSD 149GB SSD 149GB SSD 149GB SSD Asset Cache Up to 32GB Up to 32GB Up to 32GB Up to 64GB GPU Nvidia GTX 960 / GTX 1650 or AMD RX 470 Nvidia GTX 960 / GTX 1650 or AMD RX 470 Nvidia GTX 1080 Ti / RTX 3060 or AMD RX 6600 XT Nvidia RTX 3080 / RTX 4070 or AMD RX 6800 XT Video Memory 2GB 2GB 8GB 10GB There are some interesting notes here, though. If you’re just interested in multiplayer, you can get by with a much weaker CPU. The multiplayer only calls for a dual-core Intel chip, while you’ll need at least a quad-core for the campaign and extra modes. In addition, you have the option to only install the multiplayer, massively reducing the install size.
But you’ll need to account for more storage space than just the install size. Like previous Call of Duty releases, there’s a real-time asset cache that can consume up to 64GB (you can set how much it consumes in the graphics menu). This takes up space on your hard drive, streaming in assets while you play. It’s a setting you should keep on, but note you’ll need some spare space on your hard drive to take advantage of it.
For GPUs, you’ll need at least an RTX 3080, or even the recent RTX 4070 , to play at 4K with the Extreme graphics preset. From my testing, the biggest reason for that isn’t raw GPU power but VRAM. As I’ll dig into shortly, Modern Warfare 3 is very demanding on your VRAM at higher settings, and that’s only exaggerated at a high resolution like 4K.
Is 8GB VRAM enough for Modern Warfare 3? Jacob Roach / Digital Trends You can play Modern Warfare 3 with 8GB of VRAM, but you’ll want more if you plan to run the game at a higher resolution with the highest texture setting. The Extreme preset can consume as much as 7GB of VRAM at 1080p, and upwards of 9GB at 4K. For context, bumping down the texture quality one notch brings down the VRAM requirements to around 4GB and 6GB for 1080p and 4K, respectively.
Testing with the RTX 2060 Super, which has 8GB of VRAM, there were some concerning drops at the higher graphics modes. VRAM didn’t always come into play, particularly in areas where you’re indoors or in enclosed outdoor sections. But when the VRAM was stressed, such as in the cinematic opening mission, I saw my frame rate cut in half at 4K.
You can set a VRAM target in Modern Warfare 3, but this doesn’t seem to improve performance. From what I can see, this limit is mainly for if you’re doing other things on your PC simultaneously while playing, forcing the game to share VRAM with other applications.
If you’re running a GPU with 8GB of VRAM, you can still play Modern Warfare 3.
You’ll probably need to bump down the texture quality, though, as demanding areas on the VRAM can have a massive impact on performance.
Modern Warfare 3 benchmarks I focused my Modern Warfare 3 benchmarks on the RTX 2060 Super. Its performance sits between the minimum and recommended system requirements, and it’s a good representation of a popular mainstream GPUs from a few years ago. The good news is that it was great at 1080p and even held up at 1440p. Those hoping for 4K, though, will need something a little more powerful.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Even at the Basic graphics preset, I was just barely managing over 30 fps at 4K with the RTX 2060 Super. Thankfully, 60 fps was achievable at 1440p with this graphics preset, though with occasional dips into the mid-50s. At 1080p, I had no issues sitting comfortably above 60 fps, even at the demanding Extreme graphics mode.
Note that these benchmarks were run without any upscaling. Although upscaling shows diminishing returns at 1080p, it can still massively improve performance at 1440p, and even more so at 4K. You could easily crack 60 fps at 1440p with the RTX 2060 Super with some upscaling assistance, and perhaps get close to 4K if you dialed back some graphics settings.
I tested three presets in Modern Warfare 3, but the game includes five. There’s an Ultra mode just below Extreme, as well as a Minimum mode below Basic. The Minimum mode is reserved for the weakest systems, as its main draw is reducing the render resolution to 50%. The Basic mode already bumps down most of the settings to their lowest value.
DLSS vs. FSR vs. XeSS in Modern Warfare 3 Infinity Ward, Sledgehammer Games / Activision Modern Warfare 3 supports just about every flavor of image reconstruction you could want, almost to a fault. Some of the options are redundant, which can make navigating the upscaling tab a bit confusing. Here are all of the options in the game: DLSS 2.x FSR 2.x XeSS DLAA FSR 1 NIS FidelityFX CAS In-game dynamic resolution For most people, we’re only focused on the top three: Nvidia’s Deep Learning Super Sampling , AMD’s FidelityFX Super Resolution 2 , and Intel’s XeSS. FSR 1 supports some older GPUs, but it doesn’t look as good, and NIS (Nvidia Image Scaling) is in a similar situation. CAS actually has a performance hit and it’s meant as a sharpening pass at native resolution. Similarly, Nvidia’s Deep Learning Anti-Aliasing (DLAA) is an option for RTX owners running at native resolution.
If you’re not hitting the performance you want, DLSS is your best option. As you can see in the chart below, DLSS, FSR 2, and XeSS all hover around the same level of performance with their Balanced preset, but DLSS is the overall winner by a few frames.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends More importantly, DLSS looks the best by far. It actually appears better than native resolution thanks to its built-in TAA, so I’d recommend turning on DLAA, even if you’re already running at native resolution on an RTX GPU. XeSS and FSR 2 are on mostly even footing, but I recommend most players stick with XeSS between the two.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Similar to FSR 2, you can use XeSS on most GPUs. It looks about the same as FSR 2 in a static image, but FSR 2 shows much more shimmering in motion. This isn’t a big problem on the Quality or Balanced presets, but it can become distracting in Performance mode. XeSS maintains image stability much better, and it provides a similar level of image quality and performance.
As for FSR 1, NIS, and the in-game dynamic resolution, you should avoid them if you can. It’s good to have these options for legacy support, but they aren’t useful for the majority of PC gamers. They provide a solid performance improvement but don’t look very good. If you have a relatively modern GPU — something from the last six or seven years — stick with DLSS, FSR 2, or XeSS.
📢 #MW3 PC Update Players with @NVIDIAGeForce RTX 40 Series GPUs can now use DLSS 3 across all modes in Call of Duty Modern Warfare III. With DLSS NVIDIA Super Resolution and Frame Generation, DLSS 3 multiplies performance by up to 1.8X to enhance your PC experience.
&mdash; Call of Duty Updates (@CODUpdates) November 15, 2023 Modern Warfare 3 also supports DLSS 3 with Frame Generation, which was originally only in the campaign. However, Frame Generation was added to the game shortly after launch for all modes, including multiplayer and Zombies.
Nvidia’s Reflex is also supported in all modes.
Editors' Recommendations Best Meta Quest 3 deals: Get Asgard Wrath 2 for free and more These are the Diablo 4 settings to tweak for the best performance Resident Evil 4 Remake PC: best settings, ray tracing, FSR, and more Hogwarts Legacy PC: best settings, ray tracing, DLSS, and more The best gifts for PC gamers PC Gaming Computing Call of Duty Modern Warfare 2, the 2022 reimagining, is here and available on PC. Like 2019's Modern Warfare, the sequel is a masterclass in PC gaming tech and graphics, but it can still take a toll on your system. If you want the highest frame rates, you need the best settings for Call of Duty Modern Warfare 2.
I've spent the past week benchmarking the game, dialing in the best settings, and deciphering the differences between the game's various upscaling modes. It's a highly optimized game that can run on a wide range of hardware, but you'll still need to tweak some graphics settings if you want a competitive frame rate.
Computing After nearly 15 years, Uncharted is available on PC. Or, at least, some of the games are. Uncharted Legacy of Thieves combines Uncharted 4: A Thief's End and Uncharted: The Lost Legacy into a single package on PC, enhanced with updated models, additional graphics options, support for ultrawide monitors, and upscaling features like DLSS and FSR 2.0.
It's another rock-solid port from Sony that can run on a wide range of hardware. To help you dial in your performance, we rounded up the best settings for Uncharted Legacy of Thieves, along with benchmarks and some comparisons between FSR 2.0 and DLSS. There's no frame rate cap on the PC release like there is on PlayStation 5, so get ready for Uncharted as you've never seen it before.
The best settings for Uncharted Legacy of Thieves PC Computing Even two years after release, Cyberpunk 2077 is one of the most demanding games you can play. Developer CD Projekt Red is constantly updating it with new features and graphics settings as well, including settings like DLSS 3. We plugged back into Night City to see how well the game runs in 2022.
We have loads of benchmarks below, including DLSS 3 and ray tracing testing, so you can get a grip on how well Cyberpunk 2077 performs and how you can optimize the game. Although it's one of the most demanding PC games available today, there's a lot of room to optimize your performance.
Cyberpunk 2077 system requirements Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
