Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? This all-in-one Canon printer is small, simple, and surprisingly cheap By Alan Truly Close $130.00 Great photo prints Fast for a budget printer Very compact and lightweight Low upfront cost Easy setup Black ink is expensive Tricolor cartridge wastes ink The Canon Pixma TS6420a is a low-cost all-in-one printer that might be perfect for your home. Beyond the friendly price, it’s small and lightweight, making it easy to set up and move around if you decide to reorganize your workspace.
Design Printing performance Special features Budget price trade-offs Is this the printer for you? With every new printer, you have to take a moment to consider how well it fits your needs. A busy office will want a rugged, high-volume business printer , while this Canon Pixma TS6420a seems like a better personal printer. The bottom line is quality and value, so let’s see how well Canon’s budget printer performs and how quickly ink costs accumulate.
What is a monochrome printer, and do you need one? Huawei’s first all-in-one looks like a touchscreen iMac This DIY, triple-monitor PC is a portable all-in-one unlike any you’ve ever seen Design Canon’s Pixma TS6420a is a compact and nice-looking printer.
Alan Truly / Digital Trends The Canon Pixma TS6420a might be the shortest printer I’ve ever tested, standing just 6-inches tall. The main paper tray and output bin are placed at the front, and with its 14-inch depth, the printer is usable on a deep shelf. The weight is just 13.8 pounds.
The rear tray raises upward for photo prints, heavier paper, and envelopes, raising the printer height to 11.25 inches. If you plan to put it on a shelf or under a cabinet, you’ll need at least 16.25 inches of vertical space to open the top lid of this all-in-one printer’s flatbed scanner. The width is 16 inches, making this a small printer overall.
Canon gave the Pixma TS6420a an attractive two-tone shading, and it’s available in two color options. I tested the gray-on-black printer. Canon also sells a white-on-light-gray style, so you can choose the color that blends best with your decor.
The black-and-white display is small at 1.4 inches, but easy to see since the control panel tilts up. The menu layout is simple to understand and navigate, with large, clearly labeled buttons on either side of the display.
Canon Pixma TS6420a’s control panel is easy to understand.
Alan Truly / Digital Trends The main paper tray is at the front bottom and can hold 100 sheets. The rear tray also has a 100-sheet capacity, so you won’t need to reload frequently unless you switch to another type of paper.
The main tray comes out entirely, which is nice. To add paper, I had to remove a small cover. That’s not a problem, but replacing the cover requires aligning the edges, which is a slight annoyance. If the design included a hinge, adding paper would be much easier.
Printing performance Canon’s Pixma TS6420a is a great photo printer.
Tracey Truly / Digital Trends The Canon Pixma TS6420a has great print quality for a low-cost all-in-one printer. Photos are bright and sharp, with accurate colors, while text is crisp and easy to read.
With budget inkjets, pictures often have a slight color cast. The Pixma TS6420a has good color fidelity when using glossy or matte photo paper. Photo prints have nice detail and vibrant color in the right places, making this one of the best four-color printers I’ve tried.
Borderless printing works as expected, and a variety of media is supported. However, the Pixma TS6420a doesn’t handle photos well on plain paper, so choose matte or glossy photo paper.
For better pictures, you’d need to get a printer designed for photographic prints.
The best photo printers use five or more ink colors to provide more midrange detail and smoother gradations.
Print speed is good for an entry-level printer.
Monochrome printing outputs 13 pages per minute, so you can get through long documents or run copies quickly. Depending on how sparse or dense the page is, you’ll be able to print about seven color documents each minute. And 4×6 photo prints are speedy as well, finishing in about 43 seconds.
Alan Truly tests the Pixma TS6420a’s envelope-printing capability.
Tracey Truly / Digital Trends Envelopes, 4×6 photo paper, and heavier paper load in the rear tray and print well. Printing envelopes from a mobile device is often frustrating, but the Canon Pixma TS6420a handled that task with no trouble. Double-sided (duplex) printing worked reliably as well.
Special features Tracey Truly / Digital Trends The Canon Pixma TS6420a is an all-in-one printer that can copy, scan, and print. Copying is quick and easy from the device using the control panel buttons and display. In about 17 seconds, a page full of photos rolls out, looking almost as good as the original.
Scanning resolution is up to 600 dots per inch with a computer, but I could only scan at 300 dpi when using the mobile app. Still, the scan quality looked good, and it was quick.
The Pixma TS6420a doesn’t include an automatic document feeder to scan or copy multiple pages at once. If that’s important to you, check our list of the best all-in-one printers to find a model with one.
Budget price trade-offs Alan Truly checks ink levels on the Pixma TS6420a.
Tracey Truly / Digital Trends The Canon Pixma TS6420a retails for $130, but can be found for well under $100. Where you really pay is in long-term ink costs. It’s a well-known trade-off when you buy an inexpensive printer.
Canon sells a value pack with color and black cartridges for $40. The average ink cost for each page when ordering this bundle is about 10 cents. The high-capacity value pack costs more (about $55), but has significantly more ink, knocking a few more cents off. At best, you’ll average about 7.5 cents per page.
However, the value packs are only saving money if you run out of black and color cartridges at the same time. Inevitably, you’ll need to order a black or a tri-color cartridge separately.
High-capacity cartridges (PG260 XL and CL261 XL) last for about 400 black and 300 color pages, respectively. Canon doesn’t list the yield of standard cartridges, but I used the ink volume versus the XL cartridges to estimate 210 black pages and 204 color pages.
The cost per page for individual black cartridges is 8 to 9 cents per page, and each color document costs 10 to 12 cents. That’s expensive, particularly for the black ink. The tri-color cartridge is a wasteful design since it’s unlikely you’ll run out of cyan, magenta, and yellow at the same time.
Is this the printer for you? The Canon Pixma TS6420a has excellent print quality, relatively quick performance, and is easy to use. Photos are surprisingly crisp, with great color for a four-color printer. Scanning and copying are fast, and the paper trays are well-designed.
The small footprint and light weight make this a nice option for a personal printer for the home or school, where you might want to move it around.
The ink is my only complaint about this all-in-one printer. The black ink is more expensive than most, and the color cartridge is a three-in-one that’s almost guaranteed to waste some ink.
If you aren’t sure about the Canon Pixma TS6420a, you might want to check out our list of other top printers.
That means this is a good printer for low-volume personal use. When you need to print in black-and-white often, as well as several photos, the ink cost will add up in a hurry.
If you only print a few photos a month, plus some letters, documents, and labels, Canon’s budget printer could be perfect. The Pixma TS6420a is a great photo printer and a good, reliable all-in-one.
Editors' Recommendations The best cheap printers for 2023 The best all-in-one printers you can buy in 2023 The new HP Envy 34 all-in-one has a magnetic webcam that’s perfect for streamers Lenovo’s new all-in-one PC features a swiveling hinge for work-from-home comfort Walmart slices price on Canon ImageClass MF232W Wi-Fi laser printer Printer Reviews Product Reviews Computing Lenovo is probably one of the best-known laptop makers, especially since they have an incredibly wide variety of them to choose from. That also means they have an excellent selection of gaming laptops, so you can hone in on something that fits your budget. That's especially the case with the ongoing early Black Friday deals that are seeing laptops being cut down in price across the board. That said, Lenovo's selection of gaming laptops is too wide for us to include all their active deals here, so we've selected some of our favorites for both AMD and Intel CPUs. Also, if you're not sure of where to start, you should check out our list of best Lenovo laptops for some good options.
Best Lenovo Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals (AMD) Lenovo has a wider selection of AMD gaming laptops, which is great if you want to go with something AMD-powered. Unfortunately, there aren't any good deals on Lenovo laptops with both an AMD CPU and GPU, but the selection below is wide enough to pick something that fits your needs a bit better. And, if you want something with an RTX 4090 on a budget, then the AMD version is probably the cheapest for Lenovo.
Computing Printers are complicated machines featuring a mix of plastics, metals, electronics, and components, some of which are potentially flagged as hazardous waste. In 2023, it's more important than ever to be kind to the planet, and there are several environmentally safe ways to dispose of a printer.
Even the best printers in the world can reach the end of their life after several years if ink or toner is no longer available. A well-loved printer can suffer from accumulated wear and tear or damage from a catastrophic power surge that's too expensive to repair.
Computing It's Black Friday, which means it is time to give expensive tech products and fun, but expensive, toys a second look. The right Black Friday deals are there to take these categories of products down in price. Where these categories of expensive tech and cool toys collide is the Meta Quest 2, a VR headset, and sure enough, it has a good sale going on over at Amazon right now. Normally $300, its price has dropped by $51 down to just $249, one of the best VR headset Black Friday deals we've seen. The really good news? This deal is here now, so you don't have to wait to buy it like you will with the rest of your post Thanksgiving shopping. In fact, if you tap the button below and buy now, and with a little shipping luck, you might have it by Thanksgiving to play with your family.
Why you should buy the Meta Quest 2 The Meta Quest 2, which dominated Steam last year, is a VR headset that gives a full 360 field of view, allows you to experience 3D positional audio, and has over 500 compatible titles between gaming, fitness, and other experiences. If you're a Twitch viewer, you may recognize it from streamers playing Meta Quest 2 games like Beat Saber or the somewhat ironically humorous Among Us VR. It refreshes at 120Hz and gives each eye a view of 1832 x 1920p.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
