Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Guides 10 helpful Gmail tips and tricks everyone should know By Anita George and Tyler Lacoma Close Aleksey Boldin/123rf Part of what makes Gmail the go-to email client is its broad range of customization. There’s a plethora of ways to use Gmail, and plenty of underused tips that can make it a far more enjoyable experience.
Send and archive in one step Enable and disable tabs See more with the Compact setting Take back an unfortunate email Save space with Drive Delegate some of your emails Use Schedule Send for your emails Use Gmail’s Unsubscribe button Try using keyboard shortcuts in Gmail Organize your emails better with the Labels feature Below, you’ll find some of our favorite methods for managing your emails and giving Gmail an extra boost when it comes to organization.
Send and archive in one step screenshot/Anita George / Digital Trends Here’s a trick to save a lot of time. First, select the Gear icon and choose See all settings from the resulting drop-down menu. Under the General tab, find the Send and archive section, and check the box beside Show “Send & Archive” button in reply.
 Then navigate to the bottom of the page and select Save changes.
Google could kill Gmail spam with an upcoming major update Linus Tech Tips restored after crypto scam hack Gmail client-side encryption adds security for businesses Following these steps adds a new button when you’re replying to an email. Selecting that button will allow you to send your response and automatically archive the email, thus removing it from your inbox. It’s a godsend for people who receive endless amounts of email, and one that keeps your inbox free of clutter.
Enable and disable tabs Gmail has three tabs — Primary , Social , and Promotions — and organizes your emails for you automatically. But did you know you can customize these tabs? If you want to do so, select the Gear icon in the upper-right corner, and in the menu that pops up, go to the section labeled Inbox type.
 Then select Customize, which is under the word Default.
This allows you to add new tabs, such as Updates and Forums , or remove any tabs that you don’t like or want. It’s a handy bit of automatic organization for when you’re feeling overwhelmed.
See more with the Compact setting When you select the Gear icon in the upper-right corner of Gmail, one of the first things you’ll see in the resulting drop-down menu is an option to switch between Default , Comfortable , and Compact viewing modes. Switching to Compact eradicates a good deal of space, allowing you to see more email information on each line.
It’s a good setting to go with if you want to maximize your efficiency and see as much information as possible in a single glance.
Take back an unfortunate email Image used with permission by copyright holder Whenever you send an email in Gmail, you’ll notice a yellow box that says the email was sent. If you catch it fast enough, however, you can actually cancel the email while it’s in the process of being sent. This feature is called Undo Send. The feature will appear as an Undo button in the Message Sent banner that pops up when you send an email. Select that button and your email turns back into a draft.
The Undo Send feature is available by default, but you can extend the amount of time you get to cancel the sending of an email. Here’s how: Select the Gear icon in the upper-right corner and select See all settings from the drop-down menu. Go to the Undo send section under the General tab. Here, you can set a 5-, 10-, 20-, or 30-second cancellation period.
Save space with Drive If you can’t fit a file on an email or prefer not mess around with attachments, use Google Drive instead. Every Compose window comes equipped with a Drive icon, which allows you to quickly attach Drive files from within your browser.
It’s also handy if you need to share files that aren’t stored on the device you’re using.
Delegate some of your emails Gmail offers a service that allows you to set up a series of delegates.
 These delegates have the ability to read and respond to your emails, although they can’t chat or update your password. Setting up delegates is useful if you are a busy professional and need an employee or team member to step in and check the latest responses when you simply don’t have enough time.
Use Schedule Send for your emails screenshot/Anita George / Digital Trends Do you need to send an email to someone at a particular time in the future? You can do that with Gmail’s Schedule Send feature. Basically, the feature allows you to write up an email and then choose a time and date in the future for Gmail to actually send it. This can be helpful in situations such as when you work with people in different time zones than you or if you feel the need to message someone right away, but want to respect the recipient’s off hours.
It’s really easy to use. After you’ve written up your email and are ready to send it, instead of just selecting Send , you’ll select a Down arrow icon next to it. The option to Schedule Send will immediately appear. Select it. Then in the small Schedule send window that appears, simply choose the date and time you want the email to be sent. Once scheduled, your email will be sent on the date and at the time you picked.
Use Gmail’s Unsubscribe button If you get a lot of promotional emails from stores and other companies, and you want to reduce their clutter in your Gmail inbox, this is the tip for you. For a lot of these emails, Gmail offers its own Unsubscribe button that when selected directs Gmail to unsubscribe you from that company’s mailing list on your behalf. Sometimes Gmail automatically unsubscribes you from a mailing list and other times it may direct you to a website where you can finish the process on your own. But either way, you won’t get any more of those emails.
You can usually find Gmail’s Unsubscribe button in opened emails as a small, gray link to the right of the sender’s email address.
Try using keyboard shortcuts in Gmail Using keyboard shortcuts can be a more convenient way to navigate and use your PC, and the same can be true for Gmail. That’s right, for a variety of Gmail tasks, you’re not just stuck looking for icons and selecting them to get things done. If you enable keyboard shortcuts in Gmail, you can do things like press a single key to immediately start a reply to an email.
If you want to learn how to enable keyboard shortcuts in Gmail and how to use a few of them, check out our guide on how to use Gmail shortcuts.
Organize your emails better with the Labels feature You can create your own folders to organize your emails. In Gmail, this is done with the Labels feature. When you create a label in Gmail, you can move emails out of your inbox and into the label folder you created. The labels that you create and the ones that Gmail comes standard with can be found in the left-hand column of your inbox. Simply click on a label to open its folder and view the emails you (or Gmail) added to it.
You can learn how to use the Labels feature by checking out our guide on how to create folders in Gmail.
Editors' Recommendations 7 trackpad gestures for Mac that everyone should know Google just made this vital Gmail security tool completely free These are the new AI features coming to Gmail, Google Docs, and Sheets Top 10 Windows shortcuts everyone should know Searching for emails in Gmail is about to get much faster Mobile Web Google Computing Gmail has a new look, which brings together Chat, Meet, and other Google apps in a single navigation pane for easier access. The new look is rolling out to a wider audience starting today, but if you don't like it, you can easily revert back to classic Gmail.
First announced in January, the new Gmail layout is different from the classic layout since it eliminates the need to use different tabs for various Google apps. These get combined into one area in a list view at the top left of the screen, removing it from underneath your inboxes. You can specify which apps you want to include in the new view, or keep to a Gmail-only configuration. This is intended to help you get work done faster, but switching back to the old style is made easy, too.
Computing If you've just upgraded to Windows 11, you'll soon find out that the new operating system brings many new features and enhancements. In case you're wondering, there are a few hidden settings that you can enable to get the most out of your new Windows 11 install.
There are cover folders on Start, the ability to move the Taskbar location, and a lot more. We put our favorites together for you in one place.
Move the Taskbar and Start Menu to the left Computing Gmail is up there as one of the world's most well-known email services, so you're likely already familiar with the basic functionality of it, whether that's sending important reports for work or sharing silly cat photos with friends. However, there are some features hidden in Gmail that you may not know exist.
Did you know that you could send disappearing emails or make Gmail feel a bit more like Outlook, directly through Gmail on the web? We got you covered with the secrets. Here are seven things you didn't know you could do in Gmail.
Send self-destructing emails Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
