Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: ChatGPT Alternatives ChatGPT on Slack ChatGPT on Mac ChatGPT Plus ChatGPT Detection ChatGPT 4 Bing Chat Google Bard Google Bard vs ChatGPT The best AI chatbots to try out: ChatGPT, Bard, and more ChatGPT vs Bing Chat Home Computing Guides ChatGPT lets you build your own chatbot without coding. Here’s how By Jon Martindale Close Did you like my idea for a board game rule chatbot ? OpenAI did, so they made it into a custom bot and now you can make one of your own custom GPT models, share them with others, and later this month, even start selling them to people. You can bring in APIs and plugins, web access, and the latest training data up to April 2023.
Create a custom GPT How to share your custom GPT Why can't I make custom GPTs? Here's how to make your own custom GPT chatbot.
Difficulty Duration What You Need Desktop PC, laptop, or smart device with the ChatGPT app GPT-Plus subscription You will need a GPT-Plus subscription to use the new Custom GPT feature, so be sure to sign up (or borrow a free trial from someone) if you want to give it a go.
OpenAI Create a custom GPT From now on, most of the time when you use ChatGPT, you'll be using a custom GPT model that you or someone else has made. Here's how to get started with your own.
Step 1: Navigate to the ChatGPT website , or open the ChatGPT app and log in.
Step 2: Select the Create a GPT button at the top of the page.
Note: If you just see the standard ChatGPT window you've been used to, it's possible you don't have access to the Custom GPT feature yet. It's being rolled out globally at the time of writing, so just wait a day or two and try again.
Bing Chat just beat a security check to stop hackers and spammers This powerful ChatGPT feature is back from the dead — with a few key changes Meta is reportedly working on a GPT-4 rival, and it could have dire consequences Step 3: Give your Custom GPT a name, a description, and its custom instructions. Think of this like the instructions you've been able to give ChatGPT for a while as a preamble to your prompt, but a preamble that only this custom GPT will use.
Use the Preview window on the right-hand side to see what the AI will look and perform like. You can give it a prompt to see how it performs, and then adjust the instructions of it on the left to tweak the way it works until you're happy with it.
Step 4: You can also add specific data for the AI to draw from, such as documents and files. Do so, and judge again how this effects the way the AI operates. You may want to adjust the instructions after giving it data access.
Step 5: You can tweak the potential functions of the AI, too. Select whether you want it to have DALL-E art generation abilities, Bing search engine access, or deeper data analytics. You can also customize what plugins it has access too, if any.
Step 6: When you're satisfied with the way your new custom GPT operates, select the green Publish or Update button to finalize it. You'll then be able to find your new custom GPT in the left-hand menu with the OpenAI GPTs and any other of your creations.
How to share your custom GPT One of the coolest features of the new, custom GPT creations, is that you can share them with anyone. In the future, when the OpenAI custom GPT shop is created, you'll even be able to monetize these AIs.
Step 1: Create a new custom GPT as above, or select the three-dot menu next to your existing custom GPT and select the edit function.
Step 2: Make any changes to your custom GPT that you want, but instead of selecting the green Update buttons straight away, select the three-dot menu icon next to it, first.
Step 3: From the pop-out menu, select whether you want the AI to be usable by only you, everyone who uses those plugins, or anyone with a link.
To share it with anyone you want, select Anyone with a link Step 4: Once you've published or updated the custom GPT, you can now share it with anyone by sharing the custom link.
Jon Martindale / DigitalTrends Why can't I make custom GPTs? If you find that your ChatGPT page looks like the screenshot above, tough luck. You can't make a custom GPT just yet as you don't have access to the future.
As long as you have a ChatGPT Plus subscription, though, you will get access in the near future. Just hang on a few more days and you should be able to start making your own models.
Now you can create your own custom GPTs. Let us know about some of your favorite creations, we'd love to showcase them.
Keep an eye on that OpenAI GPT shop, too. There's a potentially new lucrative career in creating functional chatbots for all who want them.
Editors' Recommendations GPT-4 Turbo is the biggest update since ChatGPT’s launch ChatGPT: the latest news, controversies, and tips you need to know ChatGPT’s new upgrade finally breaks the text barrier GPT-4: how to use the AI chatbot that puts ChatGPT to shame Zoom adds ChatGPT to help you catch up on missed calls Artificial Intelligence How-To Guides Computing Ever since the first generative artificial intelligence (AI) tools exploded onto the tech scene, there have been questions over where they’re getting their data and whether they’re harvesting your private data to train their products. Now, ChatGPT maker OpenAI could be in hot water for exactly these reasons.
According to TechCrunch, a complaint has been filed with the Polish Office for Personal Data Protection alleging that ChatGPT violates a large number of rules found in the European Union’s General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). It suggests that OpenAI’s tool has been scooping up user data in all sorts of questionable ways.
Computing Generative artificial intelligence (AI) tools like ChatGPT have gotten a bad rep recently, but Google is apparently trying to serve up something more positive with its next project: an AI that can offer helpful life advice to people going through tough times.
If a fresh report from The New York Times is to be believed, Google has been testing its AI tech with at least 21 different assignments, including “life advice, ideas, planning instructions and tutoring tips.” The work spans both professional and personal scenarios that users might encounter.
Computing GPT-4 -- the large language model (LLM) that powers ChatGPT Plus -- may soon take on a new role as an online moderator, policing forums and social networks for nefarious content that shouldn’t see the light of day. That’s according to a new blog post from ChatGPT developer OpenAI, which says this could offer “a more positive vision of the future of digital platforms.” By enlisting artificial intelligence (AI) instead of human moderators, OpenAI says GPT-4 can enact “much faster iteration on policy changes, reducing the cycle from months to hours.” As well as that, “GPT-4 is also able to interpret rules and nuances in long content policy documentation and adapt instantly to policy updates, resulting in more consistent labeling,” OpenAI claims.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
