Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps Convert PDF to Word Page Numbers in Word Double Space in Word Table of Contents in Word Home Computing Guides How to insert a checkbox in Word By Anita George Close If you have a to-do list you'd like to put together, you should know that you can use Microsoft Word to create one. In fact, you can even create lists in Word with checkboxes that can be checked electronically. And adding checkboxes to a Word document isn't as difficult as you might think. In this guide, we'll show you step by step how to insert a checkbox in Word. We'll first show you how to enable the checkbox feature and then how to insert one.
Display the Developer tab to enable the checkbox feature (for Windows) Display the Developer tab to enable the checkbox feature (for macOS) How to insert a checkbox in Word (for Windows) How to insert a checkbox in Word (for macOS) How to create a print-only checklist (one that can't be checked electronically) What about adding Word checklists in ChromeOS? Difficulty Duration What You Need A PC Microsoft Word Display the Developer tab to enable the checkbox feature (for Windows) Before you can even add a checkbox to your list, you have to enable the checkbox feature (and the tab menu it's housed within). In this case, the checkbox feature is located within the Developer tab, which is a menu that isn't shown by default. You have to enable that menu first. Here's how: Step 1: Select the File tab in the top-left corner and then choose Options in the bottom-left corner of the next screen. (You may need to select More before you can see Options ).
Step 2: Select Customize ribbon.
How to use a blue light filter on your PC or Mac How to block an email address in Gmail Common Microsoft Teams problems and how to fix them Step 3: On the Word options screen, there are two columns. Look at the column on the right. Under that column's drop-down menu, the one labeled Main tabs , look for the word Developer and tick the box next to it. Then select OK.
screenshot Step 4: The Developer tab should now appear at the top of your screen in the main ribbon menu. You can select it to view its options and tools.
Display the Developer tab to enable the checkbox feature (for macOS) If you are working on Word in macOS, you will also need to start by enabling the Developer tab. However, the settings work a little differently. Here's what you need to do: Step 1: Open your Word doc. Look at the very top of the document window, where you will see icons for saving, printing, undoing, and going to the Word home page. Select the Small menu arrow on the right.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 2: Select More commands from the drop-down menu.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 3: You should now be in the Ribbon & toolbar menu. Select Ribbon to reveal more options.
Step 4: On the right side of the menu, you'll see the option to Customize the ribbon.
 Scroll down here until you reach Developer at the bottom, and select it to enable this tab.
Select Save.
 Exit out of the menu and you will now see the Developer tab in your Word document.
How to insert a checkbox in Word (for Windows) Step 1: Write up your list, then place your cursor at the beginning of the first line of your list. Be sure to leave a space between the first word of your first line and where you want to add the checkbox.
Step 2: Select the Developer tab from the ribbon menu.
Step 3: Within the Developer tab, look at the section labeled Controls.
 In that section, look for a Box icon with a check mark inside of it. Select this icon. You've just inserted your first checkbox.
screenshot Step 4: For rest of the lines in your checklist, select the first checkbox you created and the space after it, and then copy and paste that selection to the beginning of each of the rest of your lines.
Step 5: Once you're ready to electronically check a list item on your new checklist, simply select the Checkbox to add an X to the box.
How to insert a checkbox in Word (for macOS) With the Developer tab enabled in your macOS version of Word, creating checkboxes is very easy. Here's what you need to do: Step 1: Type up your checklist, then place your cursor at the start of the first item on your checklist.
Step 2: Navigate to the Developer tab in your Ribbon menu. Here, look for an option called Check Box , with the icon of a checked box. Select it.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 3: You have now added a checkbox to the first item on your list! Repeat the action at the beginning of each item to add a checkbox to them all.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 4: In the macOS version of Word, checking the boxes works a little differently -- you can't just select them to check them off. Instead, double-click on the Checkbox to open the Options menu.
Under Default value , select Checked.
 Then select OK.
 Your checkbox will now be checked.
How to create a print-only checklist (one that can't be checked electronically) If you want checkboxes for your list. but don't need them to be clickable (checked electronically), you can just create a bulleted list with checkbox-shaped bullets.
Note : This option isn't necessary for macOS, because the checkboxes on the Mac version of Word are automatically print-only unless you go into the Options menu, as described above.
Step 1: Type up your list. Then select the whole list.
Step 2: Select the Home tab on the ribbon, if it's not already selected.
Step 3: Select the Down arrow icon next to the Bullets icon.
screenshot Step 4: Choose a Box-shaped symbol from the menu that appears. If you don't see one, choose Define new bullet from the menu instead.
Step 5: If you end up choosing Define new bullet , select Symbol on the dialogue box that pops up.
screenshot Step 6: Choose a font from the drop-down menu labeled Font.
 Wingdings is a good font for checkboxes. Choose your preferred checkbox symbol and then select OK twice. You now have a print-only checklist.
Image used with permission by copyright holder What about adding Word checklists in ChromeOS? If you are working on a Chromebook, we typically suggest using the online version of Word, a free web app that runs well on ChromeOS and uses OneDrive as cloud storage, which is an ideal solution in many situations.
However, creating checklists poses a problem. The online version of Word does not have the option to enable a Developer tab, and there is no way to create checklists. There is an Android version of Word you can find on Google Play , but it doesn't support Developer options either -- and Microsoft dropped Chromebook support for its Android Word app in late 2021.
So, where does that leave Chromebook users? If you want to print off a checklist, you can still sort of create one in the online Word app. Users can go to Insert > Drawing > Shapes and select a Square.
 Create a small square at the front of your checklist item (choose whatever color you want), then copy and paste it at the front of each item, as shown above. It's a rough workaround but will get you a printable checklist.
Editors' Recommendations Microsoft Word Free Trial: Get a month of service for free How to get Photoshop for free Here’s how to share your screen on Discord Here is how you can uninstall Windows 11 How to use Split View on a Mac How-To Guides Microsoft Computing The instantaneous delivery of email comes with consequences. Once you send an email, it’s gone and out of your hands. We all make mistakes, though, and Google gets it. To help out, Gmail includes a feature called Undo Send that allows you to cancel your send request. In the past, you had to manually enable it, but now it’s on by default.
Here’s how to make the most of it.
Computing If you use a computer, you probably have some Microsoft Excel documents on your Mac or PC that you wouldn’t want other people to find and read.
After all, Excel serves not only the average person, but also businesses, government institutions, and millions of other folks worldwide. Whether you’re creating graphs, converting PDFs, or just inputting rows and rows of data, the best way to keep that information safe is to learn how to password-protect an Excel file.
Computing Blank pages in a document can make an unprofessional impression on editors or potential employers. Microsoft Word is known to create blank pages in a document, so you should make sure to delete them whenever possible. Lucky for you, we can show you how to delete a page in Word in just a few steps. Should you also need to delete a page that has text and graphics, our guide includes instructions for that as well.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
