Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Guides 4 easy ways to take a screenshot on a Windows PC By Anita George Close Screenshots can be helpful at work, essential for record-keeping, or requested by tech support to better illustrate a bug you’re experiencing.
How to take a screenshot on a Windows PC: the Snipping Tool (Windows 10 and 11) How to take a screenshot on a Windows PC: Snip & Sketch (Windows 10) How to take a screenshot on a Windows PC: keyboard shortcuts (PrintScreen) How to take a screenshot on a Windows PC: Using OneDrive (Windows 10 and 11) How to take a screenshot on other devices Difficulty Duration What You Need Any Windows PC A keyboard A mouse There are a number of ways to accomplish this simple task in Windows, and we’ve detailed each of the available methods below. And yes, most of these methods work just as well in Windows 11 as in Windows 10.
 Read on to learn how to take a screenshot on a Windows PC.
Image used with permission by copyright holder How to take a screenshot on a Windows PC: the Snipping Tool (Windows 10 and 11) The best native method is the Snipping Tool. This built-in screen-capture utility works well enough, but it’s not the most robust or versatile when it comes to saving a snapshot. However, it is a utility that allows users to better define and capture portions of their desktop display as a screenshot. Here's how to use it.
Step 1: To start, just type snipping tool into the taskbar’s search box and select the resulting app. If you're on Windows 10, once it opens, you’ll see a notification that it’s “moving to a new home” in a later update. Don't worry. Even in Windows 11 , it's still an available tool, but Microsoft encourages you to use the Win + Shift + S keyboard shortcut.
Step 2: On Windows 10, select the Mode button to expand its menu. You’ll find four screen-capturing options: Draw a window ( Free-form snip ), box in an area ( Rectangular snip ), capture the current window ( Window snip ), and capture the entire screen ( Full-screen snip ).
On Windows 11, you'll need to either select New or press the Windows key + Shift + S keyboard shortcut in order to start a snip. Once you've done either, the screen will darken a bit and you'll be presented with the four aforementioned "mode" options at the top of your screen.
Select one of these modes to start your screenshot.
Here’s how to combine PDF files the easy way All ray tracing games on PC: AMD Radeon and Nvidia RTX ray tracing The best Windows apps for 2023 Step 3: Once you capture a screenshot, the Snipping Tool interface will display your screenshot. You can perform light edits like using a pen or highlighter, or erasing something.
(In Windows 11, this editing screen may show up automatically, or you'll have to select a notification that pops up first in order to open the editing screen.) Step 4: When you’re done editing within the Snipping Tool, select File in the upper-left corner and then click the Save as option listed on the drop-down menu.
In Windows 11: Select the Save as disk icon in the top-right corner, name your file on the screen that pops up, and select the Save button.
Image used with permission by copyright holder How to take a screenshot on a Windows PC: Snip & Sketch (Windows 10) Snip & Sketch is Microsoft’s newer version of its snipping utility. You can access this tool from the Start menu or by typing Win + Shift + S on your keyboard. Here's how to use it.
( Note : Snip & Sketch is no longer available on Windows 11 and has been replaced by a updated Snipping Tool app that incorporates elements of Snip & Sketch. That said, the following instructions (particularly steps 1, 2 and 4) should still be generally correct for Windows 11's Snipping Tool).
Step 1: If you use the keyboard shortcut, the screen darkens and renders a five-button toolbar along the top. You have the same functions found in the older Snipping Tool, but it doesn’t save your screenshots as a file. Instead, the image goes straight to your clipboard first.
Step 2: You’ll also see a desktop notification that informs you that the image has been copied to the clipboard. This same notification gives you the option to edit the captured image within the Snip & Sketch app. You can access this latter option by selecting the desktop notification itself. If you select the notification, the screenshot loads within the app, allowing you to crop the image and apply a pen, pencil, highlighter, or eraser.
Step 3: If you load the Snip & Sketch app instead, select the drop-down arrow next to the New button in the top-left corner and select Snip now in the drop-down menu. The screen darkens, and the five-button toolbar appears. Take your snip, and your desired image should automatically load in the Snip & Sketch app, ready for you to edit.
Step 4: Save the image anywhere on your PC by choosing the Disk-style button. If you want to edit and save the screenshot using any installed image editor, select the Three-dot icon on the toolbar and choose the Open with option on the drop-down menu. (In Windows 11, you'll just select the Edit in Paint button, to edit the screenshot in Microsoft Paint.) How to take a screenshot on a Windows PC: keyboard shortcuts (PrintScreen) Windows provides six methods to capture your desktop as an image using keyboard shortcuts. Three are based on the Print Screen (PrtScn) key, while the remaining three require the Windows (Win) key.
On external keyboards, you’ll find a dedicated PrtScn key located in the upper-right corner. The Win key typically resides on the lower-left, between the Control (Ctrl) and Alternate (Alt) keys. It sports the Windows logo, so it’s hard to miss.
On laptops , the Print Screen command may be combined with another function on a single key. In this case, you must press the Function (Fn) key in addition to the Print Screen key.
Here’s a breakdown of the six screen-capture commands: Print Screen (PrtScn): Captures the entire screen. If you have more than one display, this function captures everything shown across all connected displays as a single image. By default, this method does not save your image as a file, but merely sends the captured image to the Windows clipboard. (On Windows 11, pressing the Print Screen button on your keyboard may automatically open the Snipping Tool instead. But you can disable this by going to Settings > Accessibility > Keyboard , then toggling off the Use the Print screen key to open Snipping Tool.
) Alt + Print Screen: Captures a single window. Be sure to highlight the target window first, such as a document or browser, before pressing these two keys (or three on certain laptops). By default, this method does not save your image as a file, but just sends the image contained in the capture window to the clipboard.
Win + Print Screen: Captures the entire screen. The difference here is that Windows saves the image as a file. By default, it’s sent to C:Users Pictures>Screenshots or C:Users OneDrive>Pictures>Screenshots on your PC.
Win + Shift + S: Captures a screenshot using the built-in screenshot tool called Snip & Sketch (or the new Snipping Tool app in Windows 11). The screen dims and provides four choices on a small toolbar (not including the Exit icon): Rectangular snip/mode , Freeform snip/mode , Window snip/mode , and Fullscreen snip/mode.
 This tool does not save captures as an image, but merely sends them to the clipboard.
Win + G: Opens the Xbox Game Bar. Select the Capture button and then the Camera icon, and this tool will save an image to C:Users>(user name)>Videos>Captures by default.
Win + Alt + Print Screen: Captures only the active window. This command saves an image to C:Users>(user name)>Videos>Captures by default.
In some cases, the screen flickers or dims to signify that Windows has grabbed a screenshot. If this doesn’t happen, open File Explorer and head to their respective default locations to see if Windows saved your image.
Image used with permission by copyright holder How to take a screenshot on a Windows PC: Using OneDrive (Windows 10 and 11) If you’re using OneDrive, you can save screenshots to the cloud so they’re accessible from every device. It does not save screenshots by default, however. Instead, you must select the Cloud icon next to the System clock (or in the Hidden icons menu marked with an upward-facing arrow).
If this icon isn’t appearing, you may need to open the OneDrive app first and sign in to your account. After selecting the Cloud icon , choose the Help & settings gear icon and select Settings on the pop-up menu. Next, choose the Backup tab in the resulting pop-up window and check the box under Screenshots.
 Then select OK.
(In Windows 11, after selecting Settings , choose the Sync and backup tab on the left-hand side. On the Sync and backup screen, turn on the Save screenshots I capture to OneDrive option.) In this case, you can press the first two Print Screen commands to automatically save an image file to OneDrive. You won’t see the screen flicker or dim for these commands — you’ll receive a notification instead. Be sure to sync the Screenshots folder if you want to access the images on your PC.
How to take a screenshot on other devices If you’re trying to learn how to take a screenshot on a Mac instead of a Windows PC, taking a screenshot is super simple as well. There are a number of methods to get it done, but the easiest involves using some handy keyboard shortcuts.
Command + Shift + 3 will capture the whole screen, while Command + Shift + 4 will let you draw out a selection box.
Need to take a screenshot on a Microsoft Surface product? Check out our handy guide that covers a variety of methods.
In order to take a screenshot on a Chromebook , again, there are a few different methods, but the easiest is a keyboard shortcut.
Control + Show Windows keys will capture the whole screen, while Control + Shift + Show Windows will let you capture a selected area.
Editors' Recommendations How to use a blue light filter on your PC or Mac How to set up multiple monitors for PC gaming How to convert MKV to MP4 The best Windows 10 keyboard shortcuts How to measure your PC’s power use, and why it matters How-To Guides Microsoft Microsoft Windows Windows Guides Computing Whether you want to capture friends and relatives making funny faces on Skype or need accessible photos of online resources or programs, screenshots benefit users in many ways. With a simple press of a keyboard’s print screen key, you essentially have the ability to capture anything and everything occurring on your desktop at any time.
Computing Microsoft is currently testing a feature that allows users to switch between the local Windows 11 installation and a cloud-based Windows 365 Cloud PC installation on a device using just basic computer commands.
The feature, called Windows 365 Switch, is available for Windows Insiders in the Beta and Dev Channels. The Windows 11 Build 23521 to Insiders in the Dev Channel recently became available for Dev Channels.
Computing If you're new to the Mac, the first question people have is how to take a screenshot. There's no Print Screen key, so you'll be forgiven if it's not immediately obvious. Or hey, maybe you just forgot the keyboard shortcut or want to go deep into the very best screenshot apps available. We got ya.
There are plenty of options and customizations, so there's plenty to dig into. Here’s everything you could ever want to know about taking a screenshot on your Mac.
How to take a screenshot using keyboard shortcuts MacOS keyboard shortcuts are the quickest ways to take screenshots, whether you're capturing the entire screen or just a portion. By default, Apple's methods save your screenshot to the desktop, but if you want to copy the screenshot to the clipboard, there's a keyboard shortcut you can use instead.
How to capture a selected area Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
