Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Guides How to turn keyboard lighting on and off By Anita George Close There isn't just one way to turn on your keyboard lights. It can vary wildly among laptop and peripheral manufacturers and even among different laptop lines from the same brand.
Press the dedicated button for keyboard backlighting Press the Increase Brightness button Press the assigned Function key Use the Touch Bar Adjust it in Control Center or Windows Mobility Center Use the keyboard's recommended software, if available Enable keyboard backlighting in the BIOS Frequently asked questions To bring a bit of clarity to the situation, we've gathered together seven possible ways to turn your keyboard backlighting on or off. Read on to find the best method for your laptop or desktop keyboard.
Difficulty Duration What You Need Windows Keyboard software, if available Image used with permission by copyright holder Press the dedicated button for keyboard backlighting Some keyboards, like the Logitech G Pro desktop keyboard, will actually have a dedicated button that you can press to toggle the keyboard light on or off. In the case of the Logitech G Pro, you'll want to look for a button stamped with a sun icon with rays in the upper-right corner of the keyboard.
Bill Roberson/Digital Trends Press the Increase Brightness button If you have a MacBook, certain models allow you to turn on the backlighting by pressing the Increase brightness key, which looks like half of the sun with three rays. Press it until you get the desired level of keyboard light brightness. To turn it off, press the Decrease brightness key , which looks like a half-circle outlined in dots (instead of the rays) until the light turns off.
Using the Increase/decrease brightness buttons should work for certain models of Macs that run macOS Sonoma, Ventura, High Sierra, Mojave, Catalina, Big Sur, or Monterey.
Bill Robertson/Digital Trends Press the assigned Function key For many Windows laptops , you might need to press a Function key (F1 to F12) to turn on your keyboard's backlighting. If this is the case, which Function key it is will likely depend on the brand and model of your laptop.
For example, Dell notebook PCs have at least three possible key options: F6, F10, or the right-arrow key. In some cases, F5 is also possible.
 From these options, you should be able to tell which one controls the backlighting by seeing which one has the Illumination icon (which looks like a half-sun with rays) stamped on it. If you don't see this icon at all, your Dell PC doesn't have keyboard backlighting. But if you do see the icon, press the Function key that has it. (You may need to press it in conjunction with the Fn key.) Pressing that key combination – Fn + the function key – should allow you to cycle through various brightness level options for your Dell PC's keyboard, so keep pressing it until you reach your desired brightness level or until you turn it off.
HP notebook computers work similarly to Dell laptops : You'll need to press an assigned Function key (which could be F5, F4, or F11) with or without pressing the Fn key as well. You may need to press it multiple times to adjust the brightness or turn it off. There should also be a backlight icon stamped on the assigned Function key for your HP notebook that looks like a row of three dots with rays coming out of the first dot.
The main thing, though, is that if you don't know the keyboard shortcut or Function key assigned to your keyboard's backlighting feature, you should look it up in your PC's manufacturer's support site or manual to find out.
Chesnot/Getty Images Use the Touch Bar Certain MacBook models may have you adjust your keyboard lighting via the Touch Bar instead. To do so, tap the Arrow icon on the Touch Bar to expand its Control Strip. To turn on backlighting, tap the Increase brightness button. To turn it off, tap and hold the Decrease brightness button, which looks like a half-circle outlined in dots, not rays.
These instructions should work for MacBooks with Touch Bars that run MacOS Sonoma, Ventura, Monterey, and Big Sur.
Adjust it in Control Center or Windows Mobility Center Depending on the manufacturer and model of your device, you might be able to turn on and adjust the keyboard light via your PC's control panel menu.
For certain MacBooks, that means opening Control Center , selecting Keyboard brightness , and then dragging its corresponding slider. This should work for some MacBook models that also run MacOS Monterey or Big Sur.
For some Windows 10 PCs, this means you'll need to access the Windows Mobility Center , which resides in the Control Panel.
 To access it, select Control Panel > Hardware and sound > Windows Mobility Center.
 In the Windows Mobility Center, look for the Keyboard brightness (or Keyboard backlighting ) setting, select its corresponding slider, and pull that slider over to the right.
Use the keyboard's recommended software, if available Some keyboards have their own specific software or app that can be used to control and customize the settings of your laptop or desktop keyboard. A great example of this is the app used for Razer's laptops and peripherals: Synapse. The Synapse app can be used to customize the lighting effects of your Razer gaming laptop's keyboard or your Razer desktop gaming keyboard. And this can include increasing or decreasing the brightness of your keyboard light or adjusting the settings so that the light stays on or off in sleep mode.
Most of the best gaming keyboards have some kind of back-end software that can let you adjust the RGB lighting of individual keys or turn any or all of them on or off at will.
Enable keyboard backlighting in the BIOS In some cases, if your laptop has the right keyboard light buttons and they still don't work the way they're supposed to, it's possible that you may need to check your device's BIOS settings and make sure that they're configured correctly, or your BIOS may need to be updated to the latest version. When doing either of these things, be sure to follow your device manufacturer's instructions on how to do it carefully. Look up those specific instructions first. Some manufacturers like HP or Dell have posted detailed instructions online on how to check for these issues and/or correct them.
Frequently asked questions Why won't my keyboard backlighting turn on? There are a number of reasons why your keyboard backlighting won't turn on. Here are a few you may want to consider: Your device may not actually offer a backlit keyboard.
 Not all laptops or desktop keyboards have keyboard lights. Check with your device's manufacturer to confirm that the model of your device is supposed to have backlighting. If it is, confirm that you're using the right keyboard shortcuts, buttons, or settings to turn it on.
Some laptops like MacBooks use light sensors for backlighting in low-light situations.
 It's important to know where they are on your device and to make sure you're not blocking them.
Is the backlight not working or is the brightness level set too low? If the brightness level of the backlight is set too low, then the light is probably working but you're just having trouble seeing it. See if you can increase the brightness level using our suggestions above so you can see the light better.
You may need to update the BIOS to the latest version, or its settings aren't configured correctly.
If you decide to update the BIOS to the latest version or reconfigure its settings, be sure to follow your device manufacturer's specific instructions for doing so.
Does keyboard backlighting drain the battery? Yes, keyboard backlighting can contribute to the drain, as it does need power to function. If you're concerned about conserving battery power, you can turn off the backlighting or adjust your keyboard lighting settings so that the light automatically turns off when the computer goes to sleep or the display is off.
How do I change the keyboard backlighting color? First, make sure that your keyboard has the ability to change backlighting colors. If so, you'll need to consult your device manufacturer's specific instructions on how to change the backlighting color. Usually, these instructions will involve you opening a manufacturer-recommended desktop app like the HP OMEN Command Center or Razer's Synapse app and then customizing your lighting settings within that app to add colors to your backlight.
Editors' Recommendations The best gaming keyboard Black Friday deals on Logitech and more How to use a blue light filter on your PC or Mac The best Windows 10 keyboard shortcuts Here’s how to unlock a keyboard that’s locked Razer, HyperX, Corsair gaming keyboard prices slashed in flash sale How-To Guides Computing If you want to cut back on your PCs power, monitor it during intense workloads, or are just curious about its power use, you need to learn how to measure your PC's power draw. Fortunately, there are a number of different ways you can do this with greater accuracy. Solutions run the gamut from easy to more difficult and include both software and hardware options.
Here's how to quickly and easily measure your computer's power consumption in a few steps.
Computing As a tech writer, details matter, so I immediately jumped on using Beeftext when I discovered it. It's a typing application for Windows (there are alternatives for other operating systems I'll cover here, as well), and I first loaded it up to ensure that my typing was accurate. I didn't expect how much it would supercharge my productivity in the process.
Beeftext isn't a fancy, AI-enhanced writing tool. It’s a classic text expander, also known as a text substitution app. If you’ve never used one before, you really need to experience this kind of computer magic. I type in a few letters, then hit the space bar. Instantly, a long word, phrase, or even several lines of text will appear.
Computing When I was offered the Angry Miao AM AFA R2 keyboard to review, I couldn’t resist due to the fabulous Macross-inspired styling and futuristic looks, but I also remember trying to live with an Alice-layout keyboard before and failing to adapt to it. However, I convinced myself this time would be different. I’d try much harder.
Living with the AM AFA R2 has been a bit different from the last time, but I’ll admit it now, I still can’t type on it very well. However, this hasn’t stopped me falling in love with this amazing product that's more a piece of functional art than a keyboard for me.
What is the AF AMA R2? Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
