Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Acer Chromebook Vero 514 Review Chromebook vs Laptop Screenshot on a Chromebook Reset a Chromebook Best Chromebooks Chromebook Problems Split Screen on a Chromebook Home Computing Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Black Friday laptop deal drops this Lenovo Chromebook to $149 By Jennifer Allen Close.
If you’ve been looking out for some of the cheapest Black Friday laptop deals , you’re going to love what Best Buy has to offer. Currently, you can buy the sleek looking Lenovo Slim 3 Chromebook for $149 saving a huge $170 off the regular price of $319. Ideal for taking to class or on your commute, this is easily one of the better Black Friday deals at the moment. If you’ve been waiting to find the right Black Friday Chromebook deals , this is the time to hit buy. If you’re not entirely sold, keep reading while we take you through what the Chromebook has to offer.
Why you should buy the Lenovo Slim 3 Chromebook As one of the better Lenovo laptop Black Friday deals , the Lenovo Slim 3 Chromebook is a tempting proposition if your budget is slight but you still want something decent for the price. It has a MediaTek Kompanio 520 processor along with 4GB of memory and 64GB of eMMC storage. Refreshingly and making it a bit more tempting for those after the best Chromebooks , it also has a 14-inch full HD touchscreen.
The touchscreen offers a 1920 x 1080 resolution as expected along with an energy-efficient LED backlight and wide viewing angles. As you’ll be spending a lot of time looking at it, it’s reassuring that it looks so good for the price. The Lenovo Slim 3 Chromebook also offers up to 13.5 hours of battery life so you’re good to go even during the busiest of days without needing to find a power source.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
As we always like to see from one of the best laptop brands , the Lenovo Slim 3 Chromebook has other useful extras such as a built-in media reader, and HD webcam with microphone. It’s also fairly lightweight thanks to weighing 2.86 pounds and measuring just .73-inches thin.
An ideal accompaniment throughout your busy days, the Lenovo Slim 3 Chromebook looks great and offers just the performance we like to see in this price range. It usually costs $319 but right now, you can buy it from Best Buy for $149 so you’re saving $170 off the regular price. Sure to be a hit, check it out now before stock potentially expires.
Editors' Recommendations 75 best Amazon Black Friday deals on laptops, TVs, Apple, and more Best Black Friday gaming laptop deals: Cheapest prices today The best HP laptop Black Friday deals happening right now Best Chromebook Black Friday deals on HP, Lenovo, and more Best Buy Black Friday deals: 12 best offers you can shop now Deals Chromebooks Laptops Lenovo Computing There are a lot of great Black Friday deals on laptops popping up as we get closer to the Black Friday and Cyber Monday weekend, but we've found a few great deals at Best Buy that are going to expire very soon. Luckily, the deals we've found are spread across budgets and brands, and we've even found a couple of gaming laptops for you to pick from. We've also included some Chromebooks for those who might not want to go with a Windows laptop. Best Buy Black Friday TV deals are blowing up equally as much, so check those out if you're trying to use up a gift card.
Our Favorite Best Buy Black Friday Laptop Deal Lenovo Slim 3 Chromebook -- $149, was $319 Computing Black Friday deals present the perfect time to save some money on a new laptop. There are a lot of Black Friday laptop deals that cut prices by the triple digits. Check out Amazon Black Friday laptop deals when you get a chance too -- there are also some great discounts there. One of our favorite laptop lines is the Dell XPS. This is Dell's most popular line of laptops. In some ways, they are Dell's answer to the MacBook -- they are sleek, thin, and prioritize gorgeous screens. We've collected the best Dell XPS laptop deals below, splitting them up by size. For other Dell laptops, like the G15 or the Inspiron line, check out our more generic Dell Black Friday deals list.
For the most part, the only difference is the screen size, but with a bigger screen comes a bigger chassis. That means there's more room to pack in powerful components and extra goodies like backlit keyboards. Check out our picks of the best Dell XPS deals below.
Best Dell XPS 13 Black Friday deals Computing Black Friday deals are a great place to check for a new laptop. Amazon has its fair share of them, on every kind of machine from gaming laptops to Chromebooks. We've picked out our favorites below and categorized them. All of these deals are available right now, even though Black Friday is still a ways away. Make sure to check back for new Black Friday laptop deals before the shopping holiday starts, including Black Friday gaming laptop deals if you want to play on the go.
Best Amazon Black Friday laptop deals If you're looking for a general-purpose laptop, this is the category for you. Amazon has discounted computers from some of our favorite brands, like HP and Acer. These laptops will vary in power and size. If you're looking for something with expensive components, check the gaming laptops below. If power isn't so important, but the price is, check out Chromebook deals under this or Black Friday HP laptop deals.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
