Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Lenovo’s 49-inch ultrawide is absurdly wide — and pretty great By Mark Coppock Close $2,000.00 Quality construction Very good image quality Expansive display Attractive aesthetic Extensive connectivity and features Very expensive Takes up a lot of screen real estate Not bright enough for quality HDR Sometimes a generic display just won’t cut it. Even a large, high-resolution display running at the typical 16:9 aspect ratio can’t handle enough windows to meet the most demanding multitasking. There are two ways to improve the situation: multiple monitors or a single ultrawide display.
 Lenovo has taken the latter approach to the extreme with its ThinkVision P49w-30, an insanely wide 49-inch monitor.
Specs Wow, is that thing wide Lots of ports and lots of features Straightforward controls and a nifty Windows app A high-quality image, with one flaw Extreme width and solid image quality will work for some, at a price Most ultrawide monitors run at 21:9, making them noticeably wider and shorter than usual. The ThinkVision P49w-30, though, runs at 32:9, making it even wider and shorter – almost comically so when placed on your desk. But it also has very good image quality and a ton of ports and features. It’s expensive, but if you want an ultrawide monitor , it’s one of the ultra-widest options around.
Lenovo designed a new modular webcam solution for its business monitors Lenovo’s new ThinkVision monitor comes with Thunderbolt 4 port, Ethernet jack Lenovo’s ThinkVision P40w is the world’s first Thunderbolt 4 monitor Specs Lenovo ThinkVision P49w-30 Screen size 49 inches 32:9 Panel type IPS Resolution 5120 x 1440 Peak brightness 350 nits HDR HDR10 Contrast ratio 2,000:1 Response time 4ms (extreme) 6ms (typical) Color gamut 1.097 billion colors Refresh rate 60Hz Curve Yes Speakers Yes, 2 x 5-watt Ports 1 x DisplayPort 1.4 2 x HDMI 2.1 4 x USB-A 3.2 Gen 1 downstream 1 x USB-A 3.2 Gen 1 upstream 1 x USB-C 3.2 Gen 1 downstream (power up to 15 watts) 1 x Thunderbolt 4 downstream (power up to 27 watts) 1 x Thunderbolt 4 upstream (power up to 100 watts) 1 x Ethernet RJ-45 1 x 3.5mm headphone jack Adjustments 28.5 degrees tilt 90-degree swivel 6.1 inches height Dimensions (HxWxD) 47.8 inches x 22.7 inches x 10 inches Weight 34.83 pounds List price $2,000 The ThinkVision P49w-30 retails for $2,000, but it’s on backorder right now at CDW and on sale for $1,895. Lenovo’s pricing can be hard to track, so this price may not be around for long. In any case, it’s a very expensive monitor that will need to provide great performance to justify the investment, and it has stiff competition at this price from the Samsung Odyssey OLED G9 gaming monitor.
Wow, is that thing wide Mark Coppock / Digital Trends When I received the box via FedEx, I had to laugh. Monitor boxes can be quite large, such as the one containing the Dell UltraSharp 43 that I reviewed several months ago. That was a large monitor as well, only its box was a lot taller and a lot shorter, and it didn’t take up an obnoxious amount of space in my home office. The ThinkVision P49w-30’s box, on the other hand, is so long that it’s been an actual hindrance. I’ve tripped over it several times and I’ve needed to move it around to access my file cabinets.
A lot of that was packaging, but even so, I had another chuckle during the easy unboxing process. I assembled the base, stand, and monitor quickly enough and without any issues, but I had to find some space to place it. Maybe I just have a weird sense of humor, but as I looked at it sprawled across my second desk, it struck me as ridiculous. That’s not a knock on the ThinkVision P49w-30 itself, really, just that such a large screen stretched out so wide looks so crazily different than other displays.
Outside of its insane dimensions, the ThinkVision is an attractive monitor.
There aren’t many monitors that match it, but the Samsung Odyssey OLED G9 49-inch 32:9 monitor comes close. That display has a much sharper curvature than the ThinkVision, which is better for gaming than work but it also takes up less desk space.
Once I connected it via Thunderbolt 4 and turned it on, though, I was faced with a very good-looking image and a lot of screen real estate to work with. I positioned a couple of windows side by side and had tons of horizontal space, although the windows seemed a bit cramped vertically. More on image quality below.
Mark Coppock / Digital Trends The ThinkVision P49w-30 is constructed mostly of plastic, in the monitor chassis, the base, and the outer shell of the stand. Metal is inside to hold everything together, and the monitor felt like a high-quality product overall. It supports plenty of tilt, swivel, and height adjustments to find an optimal setup, and each was easy to maneuver. There are also two 5-watt speakers to provide basic sound if you’re not connecting to external speakers.
Outside of its insane dimensions, the ThinkVision is an attractive monitor. Lenovo created an all-black aesthetic with a few red accents that matched the old-school ThinkPad line. It’s better looking than Dell’s ultrawide UltraSharp 38 Curved display, which is minimalistic to the point of disappearing. Incidentally, that 38-inch curved ultrawide now seems tiny by comparison.
Mark Coppock / Digital Trends The stand has a convenient hole for cable management, and like the Dell monitors I’ve reviewed it’s too low to actually hide the cables that run through it. But it’s functional nonetheless.
Once you get past the monitor’s prodigious width, you’ll find a nicely designed and built display. It has a high-enough quality feel to justify its price.
Lots of ports and lots of features Mark Coppock / Digital Trends Lenovo loaded the ThinkVision P49w-30 with a ton of ports supporting a variety of setups. It all starts with an upstream Thunderbolt 4 port that provides 100 watts of power, more than I’ve seen in a monitor. That means it will keep all but the most powerful laptops charged up, as long as they have a Thunderbolt 4 port that will handle the high wattage. The Dell XPS 15 I used for testing complained about the connection being underpowered, but it uses a Dell-specific 130-watt USB charger.
From there, you have the usual DisplayPort 1.4, HDMI 2.1 , and a variety of other USB-A, USB-C, and Thunderbolt 4 connections. There’s an audio jack and even an RJ-45 Ethernet port. The ThinkVision P49w-30 doesn’t have “USB hub” in its name, but it should. There’s even a built-in keyboard, mouse, and video (KVM) switch to allow sharing between two PCs, and the monitor supports Picture in Picture (PIP) and Picture by Picture (PBP) for when multiple PCs are connected.
Overall, it’s an impressive setup. If you can’t figure out a way to connect a few PCs to this monitor, then you’re not trying hard enough. The Samsung Odyssey OLED G9 display mentioned above doesn’t have the same range of connectivity options.
Straightforward controls and a nifty Windows app Mark Coppock / Digital Trends The on-screen display (OSD) is controlled by a joystick and button on the back of the monitor on the right side. It’s easy to access and intuitive, and so much better than the buttons alongside the bottom of the MSI Modern MD271UL that were incredibly confusing to use.
The OSD itself is also simple to use, with clearly laid out categories. It’s easy to quickly set basic options like brightness, contrast, speaker volume, color mode, and scenarios. Color modes include sRGB, DCI-P3, Neutral, Warm, and Cool, along with a custom setting letting users set their own RGB values. Scenario modes include native, Image creation, Digital cinema, and Video creation. As with many such modes, I preferred the monitor’s native configuration.
Mark Coppock / Digital Trends Next up are port settings, where you can select specific inputs, turn USB charging on and off, enable Smart Power that intelligently routes power to connected devices, turn on the KVM function, and other more obscure settings. Head to the Advanced settings category to configure features like HDR 10, a built-in window management feature called True split, and configure PIP and PBP.
Mark Coppock / Digital Trends The overall configurability is impressive. I did miss the ability to set color temperature specifically, but that’s the only setting I can think of that wasn’t available.
But best of all, Lenovo offers a utility for Windows 10 and 11, available in the Microsoft Store, that duplicates all of these settings on the PC. That’s a much easier way to configure things and make quick changes on the fly, and it’s much appreciated.
A high-quality image, with one flaw Mark Coppock / Digital Trends The ThinkVision P49w-30 is a 49-inch IPS display in the (as mentioned) extremely wide 32:9 aspect ratio, running at 5,120 x 1,440. That sounds like a high resolution, but when spread out over a 49-inch diagonal panel it comes out to just 109 PPI. That’s relatively low resolution and means text and other on-screen items aren’t terribly crisp.
 All ultrawide monitors suffer the same problem, so it’s not unique to this one. But subjectively, its contrast and colors looked good, with deep blacks and dynamic images and video.
According to my colorimeter, this is a quality display. Brightness was good at 332 nits, close to the 350 nits advertised. Note that by default, the monitor is set to limit brightness to save energy. You can increase it by continuing to push the brightness setting “up” on the OSD (but not the utility, as far as I could tell) which then gives the option to change the maximum to 150%. I used that measurement when running my tests, as it’s the fairest representation of how bright the monitor can get. Users should make sure to check the manual because unless they run into the setting by accident, they could end up with a much dimmer display.
In addition, colors were wide at 100% of sRGB, 89% of AdobeRGB, and 93% of DCI-P3, and accuracy was good at 1.73. Professional creators would want wider and more accurate colors, but for anyone else, these are good results. The contrast was excellent at 1,770:1, below the 2,000:1 advertised ratio but still great for an IPS display.
The display supports HDR10, but it’s not bright enough to do HDR content much justice.
I ran a calibration and things remained roughly the same. The ThinkView P49w-30 is well-calibrated from the factory, and in fact, the calibration process dropped the color widths a point and the contrast ratio down to 1,600:1. There’s no reason to touch the display out of the box.
The display supports HDR10, but it’s not bright enough to do high dynamic range (HDR) content much justice. It works, but you won’t really want or need to turn it on when streaming. You’ll want something like the Alienware AW3423DW QD-OLED display with its 1,000-nit peak brightness if you care a lot about HDR. In addition, the display’s response rate is fast (for IPS) at 4ms in Extreme mode and 6ms typical. That’s not fast enough for extreme gaming but should avoid serious ghosting in casual gameplay. This isn’t a gaming monitor by any means, though, running at just 60Hz.
Overall, the image quality is excellent. Only the sharpness is a concern for me personally, but then I run three 27-inch 4K monitors to get the sharpest text at a decent screen size. Not everyone will notice any issues, and most users will love this display’s quality. The biggest challenge to the ThinkVision in terms of image quality comes from the Samsung Odyssey OLED G9, an OLED display that offers even better image quality along with a 240Hz refresh rate.
Extreme width and solid image quality will work for some, at a price If you’re looking for an ultrawide monitor , then the ThinkVision P49w-30 is an extremely wide option. It’s built well, has great image quality, and offers a ton of connectivity options and features.
It’s expensive, though, and you can get a lot of monitors for less money that are a bit smaller with potentially even better image quality. As mentioned throughout this display, the Samsung Odyssey Neo G95NA is an interesting competitor that should be considered prior to putting your money down on the ThinkVision P49w-30.
Editors' Recommendations Lenovo unleashes an avalanche of monitors, including a 4K 144Hz beast Lenovo’s 86-inch monitor seeks to be the ultimate videoconferencing screen Lenovo’s new ThinkVision 34-inch Ultrawide monitor packs lavish connectivity Lenovo’s $2,499 monitor uses Mini-LED technology to take on Apple’s Pro Display Aluminum, ultrawide, and sleek. These are the best monitors of CES 2019 Lenovo Monitor Reviews Product Reviews Windows Reviews Computing Lenovo is probably one of the best-known laptop makers, especially since they have an incredibly wide variety of them to choose from. That also means they have an excellent selection of gaming laptops, so you can hone in on something that fits your budget. That's especially the case with the ongoing early Black Friday deals that are seeing laptops being cut down in price across the board. That said, Lenovo's selection of gaming laptops is too wide for us to include all their active deals here, so we've selected some of our favorites for both AMD and Intel CPUs. Also, if you're not sure of where to start, you should check out our list of best Lenovo laptops for some good options.
Best Lenovo Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals (AMD) Lenovo has a wider selection of AMD gaming laptops, which is great if you want to go with something AMD-powered. Unfortunately, there aren't any good deals on Lenovo laptops with both an AMD CPU and GPU, but the selection below is wide enough to pick something that fits your needs a bit better. And, if you want something with an RTX 4090 on a budget, then the AMD version is probably the cheapest for Lenovo.
Computing Printers are complicated machines featuring a mix of plastics, metals, electronics, and components, some of which are potentially flagged as hazardous waste. In 2023, it's more important than ever to be kind to the planet, and there are several environmentally safe ways to dispose of a printer.
Even the best printers in the world can reach the end of their life after several years if ink or toner is no longer available. A well-loved printer can suffer from accumulated wear and tear or damage from a catastrophic power surge that's too expensive to repair.
Computing It's Black Friday, which means it is time to give expensive tech products and fun, but expensive, toys a second look. The right Black Friday deals are there to take these categories of products down in price. Where these categories of expensive tech and cool toys collide is the Meta Quest 2, a VR headset, and sure enough, it has a good sale going on over at Amazon right now. Normally $300, its price has dropped by $51 down to just $249, one of the best VR headset Black Friday deals we've seen. The really good news? This deal is here now, so you don't have to wait to buy it like you will with the rest of your post Thanksgiving shopping. In fact, if you tap the button below and buy now, and with a little shipping luck, you might have it by Thanksgiving to play with your family.
Why you should buy the Meta Quest 2 The Meta Quest 2, which dominated Steam last year, is a VR headset that gives a full 360 field of view, allows you to experience 3D positional audio, and has over 500 compatible titles between gaming, fitness, and other experiences. If you're a Twitch viewer, you may recognize it from streamers playing Meta Quest 2 games like Beat Saber or the somewhat ironically humorous Among Us VR. It refreshes at 120Hz and gives each eye a view of 1832 x 1920p.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
