Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Lenovo Yoga AIO 9i review: an iMac killer in the making By Jacob Roach Close $1,488.00 Gorgeous stand Beautiful 4K display Wireless charging on the stand USB 4.0 port Solid CPU performance No ports upfront Mediocre webcam No discrete GPU at $1,500 Every PC brand has its own slate of all-in-ones (AIOs), and it’s hard for a new entry to stand out (especially among the best all-in-one computers ). Lenovo has a compelling option on its hands with the Yoga AIO 9i, which promises not only one of the most unique designs we’ve seen, but also solid performance and some features you can’t find with other desktop PCs.
Lenovo Yoga 9i AIO specs A beautiful AIO Ports all at the back A stunning screen Good keyboard, OK mouse All about the CPU A lacking webcam Should you buy the Lenovo Yoga AIO 9i? It’s a great AIO, and it’s arriving at a price that puts it in direct competition with Apple’s iMac M3 while offering a few clear advantages. Despite that, there are a few rough edges in the port selection and overall performance. This could be the ultimate iMac killer, but you’ll need to give into a few strange quirks.
Lenovo Slim 9i 14 hands-on review: All luxury HP launches a work-from-home PC to take on the new iMac Apple discontinues the iMac Pro, its priciest all-in-one PC Lenovo Yoga 9i AIO specs CPU Intel Core i9-13900H GPU Intel Iris Xe or Nvidia RTX 4050 Memory Up to 32GB LPDDR5 Storage Up to 1TB Display 32-inch, 4K, IPS, 60Hz Audio 2x 2W tweeter by Harmon Kardon, 2x 5W woofer by Harmon Kardon Webcam 5MP IR camera with E-shutter USB ports 2x USB 3.2 Type-A, 1x USB 3.2 Type-C, 1x USB 4.0 Type-C, 1x 3.5mm headphone/microphone, 1x HDMI 2.1 out Networking Wi-Fi 6E, Bluetooth 5.2 Price $1,488 A beautiful AIO Jacob Roach / Digital Trends The Yoga AIO 9i looks great, that’s for sure. It’s a typical AIO layout, with the guts of the machine stuffed into the base, but the unique stand makes the Yoga AIO 9i look special. It’s a metal ring that looks like it impossibly floats on the base and reaches up to wrap around a circular Yoga badge on the back.
This stand gives you a bit of adjustment, allowing you to tilt the screen up and down, but it doesn’t offer any height adjustment. Most AIOs don’t, for what it’s worth, and it likely wouldn’t have worked with Lenovo’s stand design. The massive 32-inch screen would definitely benefit from height adjustment, however.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Down at the base, Lenovo keeps the design straightforward with a matte gray finish that’s contrasted with a stark silver Lenovo badge. It’s simple, and that’s largely due to the fact that the surface of the base is a wireless charging pad. Pop your phone on it while you’re working, and it will automatically keep it topped off.
This is a great feature, but you have to mind the placement. Too close to the front or too close to the stand, and the wireless charging won’t kick in. The sweet spot is in the middle, just below the Lenovo badge. Thankfully, Lenovo places a wireless charging icon in that exact spot so you know where to set your phone.
Ports all at the back Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Lenovo positions all of the connectivity for the Yoga AIO 9i on the back of the machine, keeping your cables tidy. I enjoy how clean the final look is, but I consistently found myself struggling to swap items out of the strange split of USB ports.
Around the back, you have access to two USB-A 3.2 ports, an HDMI 2.1 output, a 3.5mm headphone/microphone jack, a USB-C 3.2 port, and a USB-C 4.0 port, along with the power button and DC adapter port. It’s great to see USB 4 on display here, but I was constantly missing an extra USB-A port. Between a keyboard and mouse, either wired or wireless, you’re likely to occupy both, forcing you to a USB-C port for anything extra.
The placement is a problem, too. Although I appreciate that most of the cables are around the back to keep everything looking tidy, an extra USB-A port at the front would go a long way. As it stands now, the Yoga AIO 9i feels like it’s missing one USB port, and struggling to reach your head around the back to plug something in is a hassle.
A stunning screen Jacob Roach / Digital Trends One of the most remarkable aspects of the Yoga AIO 9i is the screen. I’ve reviewed a lot of monitors , and Lenovo’s display here goes toe-to-toe with the best monitors you can buy. This is a 32-inch display with a 4K resolution. It’s locked to a 60Hz refresh rate, but I’d gladly trade smoothness for this degree of quality.
The most immediate impression the display leaves is clarity. The 4K resolution on a 32-inch screen makes fine details like text look sharp, and the glossy finish leads to colors popping off the screen. As I’ll get to next, the display is extremely bright, too, offering solid HDR performance for movies and the occasional game.
What you need to know is that the display looks fantastic, but I have some technical bits to back that up. Starting with brightness, the screen reached an impressive 640 nits at its highest, which is one of the highest numbers I’ve ever recorded. It’s so bright, in fact, that you probably won’t want to run the display at maximum brightness most of the time.
Color coverage was also exceptional with 100% coverage of sRGB and 97% coverage of the extended DCI-P3 color space. That’s on the level of a premium display like the Samsung Odyssey OLED G8.
 This isn’t an OLED monitor, but the color coverage is fantastic. The color accuracy wasn’t perfect, with an average error of 1.51, but that’s acceptable for some lightweight color work in apps like Photoshop.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends For audio, Lenovo offers a quad-speaker array, split up as two 2-watt tweeters and two 5-watt woofers, all created by Harman Kardon. The audio is solid, though it can’t rival what Apple has achieved on the iMac, even with Dolby Atmos support in tow.
Good keyboard, OK mouse Lenovo includes a wireless keyboard and mouse combo with the Yoga AIO 9i that is surprisingly good. The ultrathin keyboard is snappy and responsive, and the mouse has a solid weight to it, with a bump in the back that helps it sit comfortably in your palm.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Both sync up with a single wireless USB dongle, perhaps explaining why Lenovo only includes two USB-A ports. On top of that, Lenovo allows two Bluetooth connections on both peripherals, so you can easily swap them between devices.
These are still stock peripherals, though, and you’ll get a much better feel with your own keyboard and mouse. Out of the two, I’d replace the mouse first. The keyboard is comfortable, and it feels premium thanks to an aluminum top. The mouse, on the other hand, is entirely plastic and feels cheap, no matter how comfortable it is.
All about the CPU The Yoga AIO 9i is based on a mobile processor — Intel’s Core i9-13900H — so although it’s technically a desktop, you should expect performance on the level of a high-end laptop. The 14-core mobile part holds up well, offering six performance cores and eight efficiency cores, and it can clock up to 5.4GHz. It’s not always a showstopper, though.
In a multi-core test like Cinebench R23 or Geekbench 6, the Yoga AIO 9i often loses to laptops like the Surface Laptop Studio 2 with a weaker Core i7-13700H. Compared to the 24-inch iMac with the M1 , however, the Yoga AIO 9i is leagues ahead. It takes a slight back seat to the M2 Pro inside the Mac mini , but it’s still close.
Single-core performance is where the Yoga AIO 9i shines. Unless you scale up to one of Intel’s HX-series parts or a desktop chip, you’re not going to find better single-core performance than what’s on display here.
Lenovo Yoga AIO 9i (Core i9-13900H) Apple Mac mini (M2 Pro) iMac (M1) Surface Laptop Studio 2 (Core i7-13700H/RTX 4060) Cinebench R23 single/multi 1,909 / 13,746 1,649 / 14,812 1,515 / 7,785 1,852 / 13,777 Geekbench 6 single/multi 2,840 / 13,475 2,684 / 12,765 N/A 2,486 / 13,228 Handbrake (seconds, lower is better) 89 seconds N/A 154 seconds 77 seconds PCMark 10 6,358 N/A N/A 7,507 Pugetbench for Premiere Pro 299 N/A N/A 604 3DMark Time Spy 2,100 N/A N/A 9,311 3DMark Fire Strike 5,803 N/A N/A 20,580 How does all of this play out in real applications, though? This is a general productivity machine, so it’s not surprising that more demanding tasks like video editing and transcoding don’t show a lot of promise. In Handbrake, the Yoga 9i took nearly a minute and a half to complete the transcode, while even laptops with the Core i7-13700H can complete it about 10 seconds faster. The Yoga AIO 9i managed to cut the time of the iMac M1 nearly in half, but that’s quite an old machine at this point.
Similarly, in PugetBench for Premiere Pro, the Yoga AIO 9i posted the lowest overall score we’ve recorded, though that’s with fairly limited data on the most recent version. It managed to fall just short of the MacBook Air with the M2 chip. We don’t have data for the Mac mini with the M2, though it should provide a similar level of performance.
In apps like these, the big missing piece is a discrete GPU. The Yoga AIO 9i relies on integrated Intel Iris Xe graphics, vastly slowing down apps like Premiere Pro and extras like gaming. You can see that reflected in 3DMark scores. Lenovo says the machine supports up to an Nvidia RTX 4050, though there isn’t a configuration available with that GPU at the time of publishing. The extra GPU power would help a lot in some of these demanding apps.
The real question for the Lenovo Yoga AIO 9i is how it will stack up to the iMac M3, which is slated to launch in short order. Both machines are around the same price, and although Lenovo certainly has the advantage with its screen, the GPU performance offered by the M3 may be too big to ignore.
A lacking webcam The Yoga AIO 9i includes an integrated 5MP camera, along with a dual microphone array, and the only way to describe it is “serviceable.” It’s not very sharp, and it’s prone to show some grain, even in brightly lit environments. But it will get you by for video calls with solid audio quality. Just don’t turn down the lights too much if you want the webcam to look decent.
Should you buy the Lenovo Yoga AIO 9i? Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Lenovo is offering a lot in the Yoga AIO 9i. There are certainly cheaper options, most of which rely on much weaker mobile processors, but Lenovo offers a lot of grunt for the $1,500 it’s asking. This is a high-performance AIO that hits the mark with an excellent screen and extra features like wireless charging in the base — and at a price that’s hundreds less than a machine like the HP Envy 34.
Still, there are some issues. The webcam isn’t great, and for as much performance as the CPU offers, a dedicated GPU would do wonders to push this desktop further. In addition, the port selection isn’t great, which is a shame for a desktop that’s supposed to offer everything you need without any additional accessories.
For Windows users looking for a showstopping display and solid overall performance, the Lenovo Yoga AIO 9i is a great option. If you’re on the fence, though, I’d recommend shopping around for a deal and considering the 24-inch iMac with the M3, which will likely offer higher overall performance.
Editors' Recommendations Lenovo Legion Slim 7i hands-on review: Portable powerhouse Lenovo Yoga 9i hands-on review: Sight for sore eyes Asus launches a new AMD-powered iMac competitor with a thin, striking design Lenovo’s futuristic Yoga 9i laptops are a gorgeous blend of glass and leather Desktop Reviews Lenovo Product Reviews Windows Reviews Computing The design of Apple's Magic Mouse continues to be a major complaint among Mac users, a blight on Apple's otherwise fantastic design choices. The ergonomics are inhuman, it still uses a Lightning charging port (even on the new M3 iMac), and it can't be charged while being used.
However, an engineer has introduced his design concept that would not only solve the charging issue on the Magic Mouse but also make the design ergonomic and comfortable for natural handling.
Computing Lenovo is probably one of the best-known laptop makers, especially since they have an incredibly wide variety of them to choose from. That also means they have an excellent selection of gaming laptops, so you can hone in on something that fits your budget. That's especially the case with the ongoing early Black Friday deals that are seeing laptops being cut down in price across the board. That said, Lenovo's selection of gaming laptops is too wide for us to include all their active deals here, so we've selected some of our favorites for both AMD and Intel CPUs. Also, if you're not sure of where to start, you should check out our list of best Lenovo laptops for some good options.
Best Lenovo Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals (AMD) Lenovo has a wider selection of AMD gaming laptops, which is great if you want to go with something AMD-powered. Unfortunately, there aren't any good deals on Lenovo laptops with both an AMD CPU and GPU, but the selection below is wide enough to pick something that fits your needs a bit better. And, if you want something with an RTX 4090 on a budget, then the AMD version is probably the cheapest for Lenovo.
Computing Printers are complicated machines featuring a mix of plastics, metals, electronics, and components, some of which are potentially flagged as hazardous waste. In 2023, it's more important than ever to be kind to the planet, and there are several environmentally safe ways to dispose of a printer.
Even the best printers in the world can reach the end of their life after several years if ink or toner is no longer available. A well-loved printer can suffer from accumulated wear and tear or damage from a catastrophic power surge that's too expensive to repair.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
