Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? This Acer OLED laptop (almost) beats the MacBook Air 15 — and it’s cheaper By Mark Coppock Close Mark Coppock / Digital Trends Larger laptops have become more popular as the industry adapts to the needs of hybrid workers and creators. But some users value portability over power, so a number of new thin and light 15-inch laptops and larger have hit the market to meet their needs.
Specs and configurations Design Performance Display and audio Portability The MacBook Air 15 is more refined and lasts longer Apple recently released its largest MacBook Air ever, the MacBook Air 15 , which is incredibly thin and reasonably light. Acer has its Swift Edge 16 , which is one of the lightest large laptops , but not quite as thin as the MacBook. Which of these machines is right for you? Specs and configurations Acer Swift Edge 16 Apple MacBook Air 15 Dimensions 14.08 inches x 9.68 inches x 0.57-0.60 inches 13.40 inches x 9.35 inches by 0.45 inches Weight 2.73 pounds 3.3 pounds Processor AMD Ryzen 7 7840U Apple M2 (8 cores) Graphics AMD Radeon graphics 10-core GPU RAM 16GB 8GB 16GB 24GB Display 16.0-inch 16:10 WQXGA+ (3,200 x 2,000) OLED, 120Hz 15.3-inch 16:10 Liquid Retina IPS (2,880 x 1,864), 60Hz Storage 1TB SSD 256GB SSD 512GB SSD 1TB SSD 2TB SSD Touch Yes No Ports 2 x USB4 with Thunderbolt 4 2 x USB-A 3.2 Gen 1 1 x HDMI 2.1 1 x 3.5mm audio jack 1 x microSD card reader 2 x USB-C with Thunderbolt 4 1 x 3.5mm audio jack Wireless Wi-Fi 6E and Bluetooth 5.1 Wi-Fi 6E and Bluetooth 5.3 Webcam 1440p 1080p Operating system Windows 11 MacOS Monterey Battery 54 watt-hour 66.5 watt-hour Price $1,300 $1,299+ Review 4 out of 5 stars 4.5 out of 5 stars The Acer Swift Edge 16 has one configuration with an AMD Ryzen 7 7840U CPU, 16GB of RAM , a 1TB SSD, and a 16.0-inch WQXGA+ OLED display for $1,300. That’s an attractive price for a large laptop with a spectacular display.
The MacBook Air 15 starts at $1,299 for an Apple 8-core CPU/10-core GPU M2 CPU, 8GB of RAM, a 256GB SSD, and a 15.3-inch Liquid Retina IPS display. The MacBook costs $2,499 with 24GB of RAM and a 2TB SSD. It’s a more expensive laptop, even if the starting configuration matches the Swift Edge 16.
Design Luke Larsen / Digital Trends Apple’s latest MacBooks have adopted a consistent design theme, with simple lines and angles, and the usual unibody aluminum construction that exudes elegance. The MacBook Air 15 maintains this aesthetic while being incredibly thin at just 0.45 inches, with small display bezels and a notch for the webcam that’s somewhat controversial. Still, it’s the thinnest 15-inch laptop around, and it’s relatively light at 3.3 pounds. The laptop also maintains the usual excellent Apple build quality, with a rigid chassis and lid, and a display that opens with one hand. You can buy the MacBook Air 15 in one of four colors: Silver, Starlight, Midnight, and Space Gray.
The Acer Swift Edge 16 is also an attractive laptop with a minimalist design, coming in a single black color that’s maintained throughout the chassis and lid, with just a chrome Acer logo breaking up the color scheme. It has small display bezels, but they’re plastic and detract from an otherwise modern and quality aesthetic. The Swift Edge 16 is one of the lightest large laptops around at just 2.73 pounds, and it’s reasonably thin at a maximum of 0.60 inches. Acer achieved this light weight by using magnesium-aluminum alloy, which is strong, but more flexible. That makes the Swift Edge 16 less rigid than the MacBook Air 16.
The MacBook Air 15 enjoys the best laptop keyboard, Apple’s Magic Keyboard, with its excellent key spacing and large keycaps and switches that have slightly shallow travel, but the snappiest and more precise response. The Swift Edge 16’s keyboard is comfortable enough, with plenty of key spacing and large keycaps and switches that are crisp and responsive. Even so, Apple’s keyboard is better. The MacBook Air 15 also has Apple’s Force Touch haptic touchpad, which gives users the ability to click anywhere on its large surface, as well as extra functionality built in. Acer’s mechanical touchpad is just OK, with a smaller surface area and sharp, quiet clicks.
Connectivity favors the Swift Edge 16, which has the same number of Thunderbolt 4 ports as the MacBook Air 15, but several legacy ports and a microSD card reader. Both laptops have up-to-date wireless connectivity.
Finally, the Swift Edge 16 has a higher-resolution webcam, at 1440p versus 1080p. Both laptops have fingerprint readers embedded in their power buttons for passwordless login.
Performance Mark Coppock / Digital Trends The Swift Edge 15 uses AMD’s Ryzen 7 7840U, a 28-watt chip with eight cores and 16 threads running at up to 5.1GHz. It’s a fast CPU that outperformed the MacBook Air 15’s 8-core CPU/10-core GPU M2 processor in our CPU-intensive benchmarks. It’s possible that the MacBook Air 15 will be faster in applications that benefit from GPU optimizations, such as video- and photo-editing apps.
Both laptops are fast enough for demanding productivity tasks, but for most users, the Swift Edge 16 has an edge.
Geekbench (single/multi) Handbrake (seconds) Cinebench R23 (single/multi) Acer Swift Edge 16 (Ryzen 7 7840U) N/A Bal: 86 Perf: 84 Bal: 1,790 / 10,560 Perf: 1,788 / 10,848 MacBook Air 15 M2 (M2 8/10) Bal: 2,606 / 10,024 Perf: N/A Bal: 144 Perf: N/A Bal: 1,596 / 8,020 Perf: N/A Display and audio Mark Coppock / Digital Trends While the MacBook Air 15’s Liquid Retina IPS display offers tons of brightness and fairly wide and accurate colors, the Swift Edge 16’s OLED display offers wider and more accurate colors and inky blacks. Our colorimeter was unable to measure the display’s contrast ratio, but it’s guaranteed to be in the 25,000:1 or so range that gives it deeper blacks than the MacBook Air’s display. Both are very sharp, but the Swift Edge 16’s panel benefits from a faster refresh rate of 120Hz.
All productivity users and all but the most demanding creators will love both displays. However, media consumers will appreciate the deeper blacks and additional detail provided by the OLED display.
Acer Swift Edge 16 (OLED) MacBook Air 15 (IPS) Brightness (nits) 417 475 AdobeRGB gamut 100% 100% sRGB gamut 98% 90% Accuracy (DeltaE, lower is better) 0.63 1.23 Contrast ratio N/A 1,200:1 The MacBook Air 15’s audio is superior, with six speakers and force-cancelling woofers that provide tons of volume, crystal-clear mids and highs, and more bass than most laptops. The Swift Edge 16’s dual-speaker audio just can’t keep up.
Portability Luke Larsen / Digital Trends Due to its larger display, the Swift Edge 16 is slightly wider and deeper than the MacBook Air 15. It’s thicker at 0.60 inches versus 0.45 inches, but lighter at 2.73 pounds versus 3.3 pounds. Both laptops are highly portable for machines with such large displays.
Battery life is another matter entirely. The Swift Edge 16’s Ryzen CPU didn’t live up to the typical AMD efficiency, providing just 5.75 hours of web browsing before shutting down. The MacBook Air 15 hit an impressive 18.75 hours, tripling the Acer’s longevity. If all-day battery life, and then some, matters to you, then the MacBook Air 15 has a clear win.
Acer Swift Edge 16 (Ryzen 7 7840U) Apple MacBook Air 15 (M2) Web browsing 5 hours, 41 minutes 18 hours 48 minutes The MacBook Air 15 is more refined and lasts longer The Swift Edge 16 is a great example of a thin and light large-display laptop. It’s incredibly light, provides solid performance, and its OLED display is superior. However, the MacBook Air 15 has a more elegant and refined construction, a better keyboard and touchpad, and incredibly long battery life. It’s worth the extra investment for most people.
For this category, battery life and construction win the day. That doesn’t means you should discount the Swift Edge 16, though. It’s not only much cheaper than the MacBook Air 15, but it also comes with a much nicer screen, better performance, and a wider selection of ports. The webcam is a plus as well, especially if you’re using the laptop for work.
Editors' Recommendations Here’s more proof that Apple is wrong about MacBook memory Why the MacBook Air is still stuck on the M2 The M3 Max makes the MacBook Pro look like a nearly unbeatable laptop Why it’s still a good time to buy an M2 MacBook Air The best MacBook to buy in 2023 Acer Apple Laptops Computing Right now, the best MacBook Pro laptops come with Liquid Retina XDR displays packed with mini-LED tech, and they’re absolutely incredible. Yet despite their quality, there have been persistent rumors that Apple will switch to OLED screens. Well, we’ve got some bad news if you’ve been holding out for this change.
During a webinar with Bloomberg Intelligence (via MacRumors), display industry expert Ross Young claimed that MacBook Pros bearing OLED panels were still at least three years away from being released. That’s a long time to wait if you’re eager for Apple to make its incredible screens even better.
Computing Apple has a reputation for having expensive devices, so it's always great when we find a good deal on an Apple device, whether it's iPhone deals or iPad deals. Luckily, Amazon's Prime Big Deal Days event is shaping up to be a big deal, with lots of great deals on MacBooks across the board. And, while you can certainly wait until Prime Day itself on October 10th, we're already seeing some amazing MacBook Deals that you can take advantage of right now, and they're likely to still be great deals even by Prime Day.
We're also happy to see that there are great deals across retailers, and not just at Amazon. In fact, we're seeing Prime Day deals on MacBooks at places like Best Buy and Walmart, so if you have any special deals, cards, or coupons you can take advantage of, you're very much in luck. In fact, we're already seeing retailers undercut each other on great MacBook deals, which means more savings for you. So, without wasting too much time, let's jump right into some of the best deals we've found so far during Prime Day 2023.
Today's best Prime Day MacBook deals MacBook Air 11.6-inch (2015) -- from $159 Computing Ever since they changed from Intel processors to Apple silicon chips, Apple’s MacBooks have boasted phenomenal battery life. Now, it looks like the new 16-inch and 14-inch MacBook Pro laptops due out this year could take their battery power even further.
That’s if a new report from DigiTimes (via MacRumors) is to be believed. The outlet has claimed that the new MacBooks -- which it says will launch later this year -- will feature improved displays that are even more power-efficient than the company’s existing ones.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
