Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Acer Chromebook Vero 514 Review Chromebook vs Laptop Screenshot on a Chromebook Reset a Chromebook Best Chromebooks Chromebook Problems Split Screen on a Chromebook Home Computing Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best 15-inch laptops for 2023 By Luke Larsen and Mark Coppock Close Why buy a 15-inch laptop? Well, they're not only larger than the best 13- or 14-inch laptops , but they're also often much more powerful. They don't always need to be big and clunky, either. After hundreds of hours of testing time with the best 15-inch laptops, here's our list of the greatest you can buy.
More Mark Coppock/Digital Trends / Digital Trends Dell XPS 15 9520 The best 15-inch laptop Streamlined and solid build Aesthetically perfect Strong productivity and creative performance Above-average battery life Excellent keyboard and touchpad Superior OLED display Outstanding audio Expensive Performance ceiling limited by thin chassis Why you should buy this : It's the best overall 15-inch laptop you can buy.
Who's it for : Anyone who needs serious power on the go but doesn't want to take up too much room in a backpack.
Why we chose the Dell XPS 15 : There's no steadier hand in the 15-inch laptop market than Dell, and its XPS 15 exemplifies the reputation 15-inch laptops have rightly earned: They're dependable, powerful, and robust. The XPS 15 features up to a 12th-generation Intel Core i9 processor (starting with the i5-12500H) and graphics up to an Nvidia RTX 3050 Ti. The XPS 15 is best when you pump it full of powerful components, as it's not quite as thin or light as some of the other laptops on this list.
That's not to say it's large in terms of volume — in fact, the XPS 15's footprint remains one of the smallest on this list thanks to its ultra-thin bezels. The 16:10 aspect ratio ensures that you have plenty of screen real estate too.
Mark Coppock/Digital Trends Lenovo ThinkPad X1 Extreme Gen 5 The most powerful non-workstation 15-inch laptop Excellent build quailty Superior entry-level display Solid performance Good keyboard and touchpad Very powerful configuration options Performance was inconsistent Battery life was middling Why you should buy this : It's one of the most powerful 15-inch laptops you can buy that's not a workstation.
Who's it for : Anyone who wants high-end components in a package that's still relatively thin and light.
Why we chose the Lenovo ThinkPad X1 Extreme Gen 5 : We haven't reviewed it yet, but Lenovo's fifth generation of the ThinkPad X1 Extreme is the same on the outside as the previous generation. That means the same solid build quality, the same iconic Thinkpad look and feel, and the same excellent input options.
Where the new machine is different is on the inside, with a new thermal design meant to improve overall performance. There's also an update to Intel's 12th-gen CPUs, including up to the 14-core/20-thread Core i9-12900H. RAM can be configured up to 64GB, and you can add dual 4TB SSDs for a total of 8TB of storage. Finally, GPU options currently include up to an Nvidia GeForce RTX 3060.
Display options range from a 16-inch 16:10 WUXGA (1920 x 1200) IPS up to a WQUXGA (3840 x 2400) IPS touchscreen, all of which should offer excellent brightness, colors, and contrast. Connectivity is also a strength — two USB-C with Thunderbolt 4 ports, a full-size HDMI port, two USB-A 3.2 ports, and a full-size SD card reader, along with the fastest wireless connectivity available in Wi-Fi 6E. Finally, you'll also find the Lenovo ThinkPad X1 Extreme Gen 5 to offer excellent build quality that should stand up to significant abuse.
Best Chromebook Black Friday deals on HP, Lenovo, and more Best Black Friday laptop deals: Get a new workhorse from $129 Black Friday laptop deal drops this Lenovo Chromebook to $149 Image used with permission by copyright holder Microsoft Surface Laptop 4 The best ultrathin 15-inch laptop AMD chips widely available in configurations Thinnest 15-inch laptop Superb build quality Great typing experience Long-lasting battery life Older AMD chips hold back performance Thick bezels, poor webcam Why you should buy this : It's the best ultrathin 15-inch laptop you can buy.
Who's it for : Those who want a highly portable laptop that still has a large display.
Why we chose the Microsoft Surface Laptop 4 : Most people shopping for a 15-inch laptop are looking for an extra level of performance, which is why the Dell XPS 15 is our first choice. However, if you want a 15-inch laptop primarily for the larger screen and don't need the additional power that a discrete GPU provides, the Surface Laptop 4 is a fantastic option. The high-resolution 3:2 screen is glorious, and easily one of the best screens to work on.
So, while you can't put in a more powerful GPU in this system, the Surface Laptop 4 does have some decent processor options in its latest upgrade. The AMD Ryzen 7 model that we tested provides eight processing cores and turns this extremely thin laptop into a fairly powerful machine in certain workflows. Battery life is quite good as well, lasting more than a full day on a single charge.
But obviously, the size of the Surface Laptop 4 is its greatest strength. The 0.57-inch thickness and weight of just 3.4 pounds make it an extremely portable laptop, perfect for taking your work on the go without sacrificing a large screen.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Razer Blade 15 Best 15-inch gaming laptop Sleek design Comfortable keyboard and touchpad Exceptional gaming experience 300Hz refresh rate Ideal port selection Runs hot Very expensive Why you should buy this : It's the best 15-inch gaming laptop you can buy.
Who's it for : Any gamer who wants a powerful gaming laptop but doesn't want to carry around anything too garish.
Why we chose the Razer Blade 15 : Finding a 15-inch gaming laptop is pretty easy — it's where you'll find most of them, to be honest. Some hit 14 inches, like the Razer Blade 14, while others venture into 17-inch territory and beyond, like the Razer Blade Pro. For the most part, though, the best balance between performance and form factor can be found in the 15-inch range. Unsurprisingly, that's precisely where Razer placed the Razer Blade 15. It's relatively thin, looks awesome, and sports a great build.
But most importantly, it performs really well too. The laptop includes a 12th-gen Intel Core processor with up to 5.0GHz in turbo mode, up to an excellent GeForce RTX 3080 Ti, and up to 32GB of RAM. Up to a 1TB SSD covers storage. The Blade 15 also supports Chroma RGB lighting for any customization that you may want. Ports now include Thunderbolt 4, USB-C, USB-A, and HDMI, and the laptop is ready for Wi-Fi 6E. There's even some upgraded cooling to help keep the laptop operating efficiently.
Your display options range from 360Hz Full HD to 144Hz 4K, meaning you can dial in exactly the display performance that's perfect for your gaming needs. The Razer Blade 15 is a bit pricey, but it offers a stunning look that fits as well in a boardroom as at a LAN party.
Image used with permission by copyright holder HP Spectre x360 16 The best 15-inch class 2-in-1 Solid productivity performance Excellent build quality Spectacular OLED display Outstanding keyboard and touchpad Elegant good looks Creative performance is lacking Large and heavy in tablet mode Why you should buy this : It's a great 2-in-1 alternative to the Dell XPS 15.
Who's it for : Anyone who needs a large, productivity-powerful laptop and likes the extra design flourishes of the Spectre brand.
Why we chose the HP Spectre x360 16 : The HP Spectre x360 16 is another gorgeous 15-inch-class Windows laptop (with a 16-inch 16:10 display). It's similar to the XPS 15, but it certainly has a glitzier design. The panache of the color options and gold accents make it stand out from the crowd — no doubt about that.
More than that, the Spectre x360 16 has a few key features that the XPS 15 is missing. It has a 360-degree hinge and touchscreen in all configurations, which is another feature many people will appreciate. It supports an active pen for Windows Inking. Lastly, the Spectre x360 15 has a better port selection, offering a USB-A port and an HDMI port in addition to the USB-C with Thunderbolt 4 ports that the XPS 15 offers.
You get a 35-watt 11th-gen Intel Core i7-11390H CPU and a choice between a discrete Nvidia GeForce RTX 3050 GPU or Intel Irix Xe graphics. Display options include a 3K+ IPS display or a 4K+ OLED panel that's simply stunning. Note that if you like the design and ethos of the Spectre x360 16, you can opt for the smaller Spectre x360 14 or the speedy HP Envy x360 15 instead.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Samsung Chromebook 4+ The best budget 15-inch laptop Attractive price Sleek look Good Chrome OS performance Great keyboard and touchpad Display is only Full HD Why you should buy this : It's the best budget 15-inch laptop.
Who's it for : Anyone looking for a cheap 15-inch laptop that still has a large screen.
Why we chose the Samsung Chromebook 4+ : Budget laptops always come with compromises, and 15-inch laptops are no exception. If you're looking for a basic laptop to get you by, the Samsung Chromebook 4+ is a great option. It's a surprisingly sleek-looking laptop, resembling a device not so dissimilar to a MacBook Pro. Even the bezels around the screen are fairly trim, making for a modern laptop you'd never guess was so cheap.
It comes with a 1080p screen, 6GB of RAM, and an Intel Celeron processor. The Chromebook 4+'s performance won't blow you out of the water, but Chrome OS makes good use of even lower-powered processors like the Intel Celeron. If your needs are fairly limited, you'll be hard-pressed to find another 15-inch laptop this good at such a low price.
More Mark Coppock/Digital Trends Lenovo ThinkPad P15 Gen 2 The best 15-inch workstation Durable build quality Quality entry-level display Great keyboard Superior expandability Solid performance Not that much faster than less expensive laptops Touchpad is too small Expensive Why you should buy this : It's a powerful 15-inch workstation with tons of expandability.
Who's it for : Creative and scientific types who need to be able to configure a really powerful laptop.
Why we chose the Lenovo ThinkPad P15 Gen 2 : Today's thin-and-light 15-inch laptops can get pretty powerful, such as with the Lenovo ThinkPad X1 Extreme Gen 4. However, sometimes you need to be able to configure an even more powerful machine, and that's where the Lenovo ThinkPad P15 Gen 2 comes in. It's a thick and heavy, old-school workstation that can be configured to the extreme.
For example, you can select up to an 8-core/16-thread 11th-gen Intel Xeon W-11955M CPU, 128GB of RAM, 16TB of storage via two PCIe SSD slots, and an Nvidia Quadro RTX A5000 GPU. You'll spend a pretty penny, but if you're editing 8K video or running machine-learning algorithms, then you'll appreciate all this power.
You'll also appreciate the display options, including Full HD 16:9 IPS, FHD IPS with Dolby Vision, UHD (3840 x 2160) IP with Dolby Vision and HDR 400, and UHD OLED with touch, Dolby Vision, and HDR 400. The Lenovo ThinkPad P15 Gen 2 is a true workhorse that can meet the most demanding performance needs.
Frequently Asked Questions Simply, the 15-inch laptop benefits from the size of its display. First, you get plenty of screen real estate for getting your work done, without needing to step up to a massive 17-inch laptop. Second, the chassis is naturally larger, providing more space for powerful components and lots of battery capacity. This will let you run more windows at once and split them comfortably on your display while enjoying superfast processors and GPUs that will keep your applications humming along.
If you crave a highly portable laptop that's fine for general productivity tasks, then a 13-inch laptop will get the job done. And today's 13-inch laptops are excellent. You won't want the typical 13-inch laptop if you're a creative type who needs to edit complex photos and video, but for productivity users, a 13-inch laptop is a great choice.
If you want a powerful laptop that can churn through demanding creative tasks, as well as provide tons of screen real estate for heavy multitasking, then a 15-inch laptop is the better choice. It will be larger and heavier, but far more capable.
There's no reason to go with a 15-inch laptop if it won't meet your performance and display quality needs. Therefore, look for a laptop that can configure fast CPUs and discrete GPUs if you need the power, although a very thin-and-light 15-inch laptop with less powerful components can still be of value. That's where the display comes in — you'll want a high-quality IPS or OLED display that offers high enough resolution for your needs and, if you're creative, wide and accurate colors with lots of contrast.
Otherwise, you'll want to look for the same things as with any laptop. You'll want a solid build quality, a great keyboard and touchpad, and long battery life — or at least, long battery life, given the powerful components and power-hungry display you might configure. Overall, 15-inch laptops are no different than other laptops when it comes to basic quality and functionality.
Editors' Recommendations Best Black Friday gaming laptop deals: Cheapest prices today Best Lenovo laptop Black Friday deals: Chromebooks, gaming laptops, and more Best Buy Black Friday deals: 12 best offers you can shop now 11 Best Buy Black Friday laptop deals you can’t afford to miss today Best Dell XPS Black Friday deals on XPS 13, XPS 15, and XPS 17 Best Products Chromebooks Dell Google Chrome Laptops Computing Black Friday deals are a great place to check for a new laptop. Amazon has its fair share of them, on every kind of machine from gaming laptops to Chromebooks. We've picked out our favorites below and categorized them. All of these deals are available right now, even though Black Friday is still a ways away. Make sure to check back for new Black Friday laptop deals before the shopping holiday starts, including Black Friday gaming laptop deals if you want to play on the go.
Best Amazon Black Friday laptop deals If you're looking for a general-purpose laptop, this is the category for you. Amazon has discounted computers from some of our favorite brands, like HP and Acer. These laptops will vary in power and size. If you're looking for something with expensive components, check the gaming laptops below. If power isn't so important, but the price is, check out Chromebook deals under this or Black Friday HP laptop deals.
Computing Even if your router is only four or five years old, it might be time for an upgrade, given the recent advances in router tech, such as Wi-Fi 6, which has become much more prominent. The same also applies to mesh routers, which have more advanced technology that can handle multiple connected devices, such as smart lights, home security systems, phones, and so forth. Of course, you don't have to pay a lot of money to grab yourself a new router, and there are even some great Black Friday deals you can take advantage of that will save you a little bit of extra cash. We've collected some of our favorite deals on routers below, but be sure to check back regularly as we update with newer and better deals.
Best Router Black Friday Deals Routers are a great option if you don't have a large home or need to cover a lot of square footage, and putting them near you means that you get much better speeds and lower latency when connecting through Wi-Fi. Of course, that may not always be an option, so it's important to know what sort of capacity and speeds routers can do. Most routers will have an "AX" followed by a set of numbers that dictates the maximum speed it can reach, and the rule of thumb is generally that this maximum speed only applies when you're really close to the router, so the further out you go, the less speed you'll get. It's not perfect, but generally more powerful routers that can hit higher speeds will be able to connect at higher speeds further away, although its always best to check the actual real-world performance of a router before taking the plunge.
Computing Alienware is known for its high-end gaming laptops, which are not only powerful but are also quite pricey. Luckily, there are some great Black Friday deals on its laptops with both AMD and Intel CPUs, so you have a bit of a choice on what sort of setup you want to go with. While you're here, it is worth taking a look at the wider Alienware Black Friday deals and Dell Black Friday deals for even more options. We love Alienware, but consider browsing the similar Razer gaming laptop Black Friday deals.
Alienware Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals (AMD) AMD processors tend to be a little bit more power efficient and cheaper than Intel CPUs, and while that won't make a big difference with a gaming laptop, it's a nice little addition to have. Luckily, unlike other brands, Alienware doesn't shy away from combining AMD CPUs with high-end hardware like an RTX 4090, so if you'd like to go with and AMD CPU, you'll have a lot of choices to pick from.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
