Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Guides HP Dragonfly Pro vs. Apple MacBook Pro 14: a solid alternative? By Mark Coppock Close Apple’s MacBook Pro 14 has taken over as the best 14-inch laptop you can buy today, thanks to great performance and battery life, a spectacular display, and an elegant, functional design. It’s one of the best laptops you can buy, and it’s just been upgraded with the newer Apple M2 Pro and Max CPUs for even better performance and efficiency.
Specs Design Performance Display Portability The Dragonfly Pro better be cheap, or it doesn’t stand a chance HP introduced the Dragonfly Pro at CES 2023 to take on the MacBook Pro , and it has a pretty steep hill to climb. We haven’t been able to review the laptop yet, but it marks an interesting switch for the Dragonfly to the consumer segment from the commercial market. Can HP’s newly designated 14-inch machine take on the best? Image used with permission by copyright holder Specs HP Dragonfly Pro Apple MacBook Pro 14 Dimensions 12.39 inches x 8.78 inches x 0.72 inches 12.31 inches by 8.71 inches by 0.60 inches Weight 3.53 pounds 3.5 pounds Processor AMD Ryzen 7 7736U Apple M2 Pro Apple M2 Max Graphics AMD Radeon graphics Integrated RAM 16GB 32GB 16GB 32GB 64GB 96GB Display 14.0-inch 16:10 Full HD+ (1,920 x 1,200) IPS 14.2-inch 16:10 Liquid Retina XDR 3024 x 1964 Storage 512GB SSD 1TB SSD 512GB SSD 1TB SSD 2TB SSD 4TB SSD 8TB SSD Touch Yes No Ports 2 x USB-C 4.0 1 x USB-C 3.2 Gen 2 3 x USB-C with Thunderbolt 4 1 x HDMI 2.0 1 x 3.5mm audio jack SD card reader Wireless Wi-Fi 6E and Bluetooth 5.2 Wi-Fi 6 and Bluetooth 5.0 Webcam 5MP with infrared camera for Windows 11 Hello 1080p Operating system Windows 11 MacOS Monterey Battery 64.6 watt-hour 70 watt-hour Price TBD $1,999+ Rating Not yet reviewed 5 out of 5 stars (M1 version) Design 1.
HP Dragonfly Pro 2.
Apple MacBook Pro 14 The Dragonfly Pro and MacBook Pro 14 are within fractions of an inch of each other in width and depth, and they both weigh about 3.5 pounds. The Dragonfly Pro is quite a bit thicker, though, something we find difficult to account for.
HP makes great keyboards, especially in their Spectre and Dragonfly lines, and we hope this carries over to the Dragonfly Pro. If it does, we’ll see a snappy, responsive keyboard that makes fast touch typing comfortable for hours. It still won’t live up to the Magic Keyboard on the MacBook Pro 14, though, which remains the best keyboard on a laptop today. It’s not as deep as some, but its switches are precise and consistent, and typing on it is a pleasant experience. Both laptops have haptic touchpads, although Apple’s is a bit larger. We’ll have to test how HP’s version compares to the MacBook Pro 14’s Force Touch, which is today’s standard for touchpads.
One interesting aspect of the Dragonfly Pro is HP’s new 24/7 live concierge support, which is accessible using one of the four hot keys on the right side of the keyboard. There will be a fee for the service, which will put you in touch with a live technical support agent when you run into a jam. Interestingly, if you don’t sign up for the service, then that key is nonfunctional and can’t be remapped.
Performance Image used with permission by copyright holder The Dragonfly Pro uses an AMD Ryzen 7 7736U 15-watt to 28-watt 8-core/16-thread CPU, and the two companies worked together to utilize an adaptive platform management framework that aims to adopt performance to real-world productivity workflows. It’s a low-power version of AMD’s latest Ryzen 7000 series chips, likely to provide solid productivity and limited creativity performance. Contrast that with the minimum M2 Pro in the MacBook Pro 14, which starts with a 10-core CPU and 16-core GPU and improves the performance of the already class-leading M1 Pro.
Even though it’s a brand-new MacBook Pro 14 update as this comparison is being written, we’re still willing to guarantee that the minimum M2 Pro will vastly outclass the Dragonfly Pro in performance and offer even more of a lead when you upgrade to the M2 Max, which can have as many as 12 CPU cores and 38 GPU cores. The MacBook Pro 14 will be a much faster laptop for any task, whether productivity or creativity. And we feel comfortable saying that without having benchmarked either laptop.
Display The MacBook Pro 14 enjoys an outstanding 14.2-inch 16:10 mini-LED XDR display at a 3024 x 1964 resolution and running at up to 120Hz. It has wide and accurate colors, incredible brightness, and deep contrast that rivals OLED in its inky blacks. It’s a truly spectacular display that’s great for creators and for media consumers thanks to its outstanding HDR support.
The Dragonfly Pro, surprisingly, is limited to a 14.0-inch 16:10 Full HD+ (1,920 x 1,200) IPS display at 60Hz. We haven’t tested it and so can’t attest to its quality, but HP specs put it at 400 nits of brightness — significantly less than the MacBook Pro 14’s display — and 100% sRGB, which is simply the premium display’s average specification.
Again, the MacBook Pro 14 outclasses the Dragonfly Pro. Its display is spectacular, while, if we were to guess, the Dragonfly Pro’s panel will be good but not great. And it’s not nearly as sharp as it should be given the current premium laptop standard, let alone when compared to the MacBook Pro 14.
Portability Image used with permission by copyright holder You’ll feel both laptops in your backpack — these aren’t tiny 13-inch machines. But neither is going to weigh you down all that much, and they’re both thin enough to easily slip into a backpack. The MacBook Pro 14 is thinner, though.
The biggest difference will likely be in battery life, something we’ll have to test on both machines. But the M2 Pro and Max CPUs are even more efficient than the M1 Pro and Max, which already provide the best battery life we’ve seen in powerful laptops. We expect the MacBook Pro 14 to provide hours more longevity than the Dragonfly Pro, unless HP has pulled a rabbit out of its hat.
The Dragonfly Pro better be cheap, or it doesn’t stand a chance The MacBook Pro 14 outclasses the Dragonfly Pro in just about every aspect. We’re guessing that it will be much faster, offer significantly better battery life, enjoy a vastly better display, and have a better keyboard and touchpad. On paper, the HP doesn’t have a chance.
We’ll have to wait to see pricing because the MacBook Pro 14 starts at $2,000 and goes way up from there. You can spend over $6,000 on a fully configured machine. If the Dragonfly Pro wants to win customers over from the MacBook Pro 14, it will have to be inexpensive.
Editors' Recommendations Here’s more proof that Apple is wrong about MacBook memory MacBook Pro M3: Should you choose the M3, M3 Pro, or M3 Max? How to watch Apple’s ‘Scary Fast’ Mac launch event if you missed it I saw the new Space Black MacBook Pro, and it’s stunning The M3 Max makes the MacBook Pro look like a nearly unbeatable laptop Apple Laptops Computing Apple's unexpected "Scary Fast" event has wrapped, and the 30-minute presentation was packed full of announcements. Headlining the showcase was Apple's new M3 chip, which is showing up in a variety of devices in just a week from now.
We have the lowdown on everything Apple announced at its unprecedented fall event, which kicks off the third generation of Apple's silicon with two major product updates.
M3 family of chips Computing Is it time to buy a new laptop? Then you've come to the right place, as we've gathered some of the best laptop deals that you can shop for today. We've picked laptops for different budgets and needs, ranging from low-priced devices to high-end machines, including Chromebook deals, gaming laptop deals, and MacBook deals. You're going to have to hurry with your purchase if any of these offers catch your eye, though, because we're not sure how much time you've got left to take advantage of them.
HP Stream 14 -- $199, was $229 The HP stream tells you exactly what it does in the name, which is to give you a budget-friendly device that you can use to stream content or use cloud apps. That means that the specs aren't that powerful, with a budget Intel Celeron N4020 processor, 4GB of RAM, and 64GB of storage. Luckily, you do get a great 14-inch touchscreen monitor for easier navigation, and the overall build is pretty good for a budget device. As for battery life, expect around six hours or so, depending on your usage, so it will be good for a good chunk of the day before recharging.
Computing I know plenty of people walk into Apple Stores and buy a MacBook right off the shelf because they need one. I get it.
But if you're considering a purchase of a MacBook Pro, in particular, it'll really pay off to pump the brakes. Apple is holding a surprise product launch event next Monday, and if the rumors are to be believed, all three MacBook Pros are going to get updated. Upgrading all three at once would be an unprecedented way to upgrade these laptops for Apple as it simultaneously launches the M3, M3 Pro, and M3 Max chips.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
