Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing News The Lenovo Slim Pro is the best answer to the MacBook Pro I’ve seen yet By Luke Larsen Close Since the launch of the redesigned MacBook Pro in 2021, Windows laptops have struggled to produce a true rival. The new Lenovo Slim Pro, though, looks to be the full package, especially in terms of its performance and screen.
The top-of-the-line new model, the Slim Pro 9i, matches the MacBook Pro in a few important ways, starting with the display. This is one of the first Windows laptops oriented toward creatives that adopts a mini-LED screen, switching from the OLED options that were previously available.
Image used with permission by copyright holder That means significantly brighter panels (up to 1,200 nits for HDR content) and excellent colors. These have started to become popular options in high-end gaming laptops this year, but the Lenovo Slim Pro 9i finally matches the MacBook Pro’s XDR display, at least in specs. It comes in two display options: a 14.5-inch 3K model with a resolution of 3072 x 1920 or a 16-inch model with a 3200 x 2000 resolution. Both displays are in 16:10 aspect ratio, a 165Hz refresh rate, and a touch layer.
The entry-level models of the Slim Pro 9i will offer a 400-nit LCD option as well.
The MacBook Pro M3 doesn’t have a memory problem — it has a pricing problem Why Apple’s subtle MacBook Pro decision makes me so happy The M3 Max makes the MacBook Pro look like a nearly unbeatable laptop Lenovo says the Slim Pro 9i is a laptop designed for “resource-intensive creativity,” which requires some solid performance to live up to that promise. It comes with an option of an RTX 4050, 4060, or 4070. Lenovo is also highlighting the Lenovo X Power feature, which claims to speed up performance in creative applications through a combination of hardware and software techniques. Lenovo says the feature increases the thermal capacity of these machines, allowing for a 62.5% increase in speed over the last generation.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The machines also come with options for up to an Intel Core i9-13905H, 64GB of RAM , and a terabyte of storage. That doesn’t quite match the top configurations of the MacBook Pro, though, especially on the storage front.
Of course, none of this would be impressive if they were in a chunky chassis. But the Slim Pro 9i, as you’d assume from the name, manages to be just 0.69 inches thick (or 0.67 for the LCD model).
The Slim Pro 9i also has lots of ports, almost matching the MacBook Pro exactly. Included are HDMI 2.1 , Thunderbolt 4, USB-C 3.2 Gen 1, two USB-A 3.2 Gen 1, a full-size SD card slot, and a headphone jack.
Lenovo also added a high-resolution 5-megapixel webcam to the mini-LED model, whereas the LCD model has a 1080p option. The 16-inch version of the Slim Pro 9i features a six-speaker setup, while the 14.5-inch size has just four speakers. Both sizes, however, use a 75-watt-hour battery.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Lenovo has also announced a Slim Pro 7i and Slim Pro 7, now in their 8th generation. The Intel model features P-series 13th-gen processors, while the Slim Pro 7 is powered by up to a Ryzen 7 7840HS and an Nvidia RTX 4050. Mini-LED is reserved for the more premium model, but the Slim Pro 7 and Slim Pro 7i still offer some fast, sharp panels, with up to a 120Hz refresh rate and 3072 x 1920 resolution — not unlike the previous-gen Slim Pro 7i.
 Interestingly, the Slim Pro 7i uses a slightly smaller 14-inch screen and will be offered in more entry-level configurations.
Lastly, Lenovo is rolling out updates to its Yoga 7 and Yoga 7i convertibles, which are also in their 8th generation. These have been updated to the latest processors from Intel and AMD but are otherwise similar to previous generations.
The flagship 16-inch Slim Pro 9i will start at $1,800, while the 14.5-inch model will be $100 cheaper. They’ll both be available starting in May.
The cheaper Lenovo Slim Pro 7 starts at $1,200 and will come to North America in April, while the Slim 7i will start at $1,180 and also be available in April.
The Yoga 7i comes in two sizes: 14-inch and 16-inch. The smaller model starts at $850, while the 16-inch model is $50 cheaper. Both will be available starting in April. And last up, the Yoga 7 also starts at $800 and will be available in May.
Editors' Recommendations Here’s why people are raising concerns about the M3 Pro MacBook Pro MacBook Pro M3: Should you choose the M3, M3 Pro, or M3 Max? I saw the new Space Black MacBook Pro, and it’s stunning Whatever you do, don’t buy a MacBook Pro right now Apple’s first OLED MacBooks are still years away, says report Laptops Lenovo Tech News Computing Ever since they changed from Intel processors to Apple silicon chips, Apple’s MacBooks have boasted phenomenal battery life. Now, it looks like the new 16-inch and 14-inch MacBook Pro laptops due out this year could take their battery power even further.
That’s if a new report from DigiTimes (via MacRumors) is to be believed. The outlet has claimed that the new MacBooks -- which it says will launch later this year -- will feature improved displays that are even more power-efficient than the company’s existing ones.
Computing There's no doubt that Apple's MacBook Pro 16 is one of the best laptops you can buy today. It's incredibly well built, offers plenty of power to go with the best efficiency, and its display, keyboard, and touchpad are superior.
But, it's also incredibly expensive. That's where a laptop like HP's Envy 16 2023 comes in. It's also quite fast and well-built, with a gorgeous display option. And it's a lot less expensive. Can it topple Apple's mighty MacBook Pro? Specs and configurations Computing I knew when AMD announced the Ryzen 9 7945HX3D that it would be a great gaming laptop CPU. It was even more clear when AMD announced it would release first in the Asus ROG Strix Scar 17, which is one of the fastest gaming laptops you can buy. I've tested it, and it lives up to AMD's hype. But I still don't think you should buy it yet. Let me explain.
Between reviewing desktop CPUs like the Ryzen 7 7800X3D and the Asus ROG Strix Scar 17 itself (read our Asus Scar 17 review for more), this new chip didn't hold any surprises. It's AMD's fastest laptop CPU, bolstered by the company's remarkable 3D V-Cache to boost gaming performance. It's a known quantity.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
