Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? MacBook Pro M2 Pro/M2 Max buying guide: how to make the right choice By Mark Coppock Close Apple’s MacBook Pro has emerged as among the best laptops you can buy in the 14-inch laptop and 16-inch laptop spaces. The newest versions have been upgraded to Apple’s M2 Pro and M2 Max CPUs , which build on the original with more cores, faster speeds, and even better efficiency.
Large or small? CPU and GPU options Loads of storage, one important caveat How much RAM is enough? So which is right for you? The laptops are highly configurable, at least when it comes to the CPU, GPU, RAM , and storage, and so you have some choices to make when selecting your machine. This guide will go over some of the more salient points to help you make the best decision.
Large or small? Mark Coppock/Digital Trends Obviously, your first choice will be to select between the 16-inch and 14-inch MacBook Pro. The MacBook Pro 14 is smaller, thinner (0.61 inches), and lighter (3.5 pounds) compared to the MacBook Pro 16 at 0.66 inches and 4.7 pounds. Their displays are identical in their technology, offering mini-LED XDR screens with incredible brightness, excellent colors, and deep contrast. The only difference is the size at 14.2 inches versus 16.2 inches, and resolution at 3,024 x 1,964 and 3,456 x 2,234 for the Pro 14 and Pro 16, respectively. Both are Retina displays by Apple’s definition and are 254 pixels per inch (PPI), so they theoretically should look equally as sharp given the screen size difference.
They also sport the same ports, with three Thunderbolt 4 ports, an HDMI port, a full-size SD card reader, and a MagSafe 3 power connector, along with the same Wi-Fi 6E and Bluetooth 5.3 connectivity. The keyboards are the same, with the 16-inch version having a much larger touchpad based on the same excellent Force Touch haptic technology. You’ll find 1080p webcams in each, along with six-speaker sound systems with force-canceling woofers. Finally, both laptops feature a Touch ID fingerprint reader embedded in the power button.
Digital Trends Both machines can be configured with the same CPU, RAM , and storage options (except that only the 14-inch model can be equipped with the 10-CPU-core M2 Pro). The MacBook Pro 16 is faster, though, thanks to both more space for better airflow and a high-performance mode that’s available with the M2 Max.
One notable difference is in battery life. Apple rates the MacBook Pro 16 at up to 22 hours of battery life and the MacBook Pro 14 at up to 18 hours. So if working remotely matters to you, then you’ll get considerably more longevity from the larger machine.
Another notable difference is price. The MacBook Pro 14 starts at $2,000 for an M2 Pro with 10 CPU cores and 16 GPU cores, 16GB of RAM , and the slower 512GB SSD, while it maxes out at $6,300 for the M2 Max with 12 CPU cores and 38 GPU cores, 96GB of RAM , and the 8TB SSD. The MacBook Pro 16 is quite a bit more expensive, with an entry-level price of $2,500 for an M2 Pro with 12 CPU cores and 19 GPU cores, 16GB of RAM , and the 512GB SSD. The most you’ll spend is $6,500 for the M2 Max with 12 CPU cores and 38 GPU cores, 96GB of RAM , and the 8TB SSD.
CPU and GPU options 1.
MacBook Pro 16 performance 2.
MacBook Pro 14 performance The first choice is which CPU is right for you and how many cores you need to run. That means choosing between the M2 Pro and the M2 Max, which come with various CPU and GPU core combinations and have some other performance differences.
The options vary between the MacBook Pro 14 and the MacBook Pro 16. With the 14-inch model, you can choose an M2 Pro with either 10 CPU cores and 16 GPU cores or 12 CPU cores and 19 CPU cores. The M2 Max can be configured with 12 CPU cores and either 30 or 38 GPU cores. With the 16-inch model, the M2 Pro comes in just the 12-core CPU/19-core GPU version, while the M2 Max has the same options as the MacBook Pro 14.
As noted above, the MacBook Pro 16 has a high-performance option you can select when the M2 Max is configured. That gives the larger machine more headroom when it comes to sheer performance. For base performance in the 14-inch model, make sure to read our MacBook Pro 14 M2 Max review.
Which version of the CPU to buy is a complicated decision that depends entirely on your workflow. Cores aren’t the only differences between the CPUs, though. The M2 Pro is limited to 32GB of RAM , it supports just two external displays, and its memory runs at 200 GB/s. The M2 Max, on the other hand, supports up to 96GB of RAM , supports up to four external displays, and enjoys 400 GB/s RAM.
If you’re looking for a high-end productivity laptop that can handle anything you might throw at it, then the M2 Pro would be more than sufficient. If you’re a creator who needs the fastest performance in apps like Adobe’s Creative Suite, then the M2 Max will be a better option. Even more so, hardcore creative professionals who make more money the more quickly they can process their videos should choose the fastest M2 Max available. Note that some apps, like Adobe’s, can utilize the GPU to speed up certain tasks, and so buying an M1 Pro or Max with more GPU cores can be a smart choice.
Neither MacBook Pro is going to make for a competitive gaming laptop.
 If that’s what you’re after, we have a roundup of the best gaming laptops.
Loads of storage, one important caveat Both MacBook Pros can be configured with between 512GB and 8TB of SSD storage. That’s a pretty wide range, and 512GB might be plenty for most non-professional users.
Brandon Geekabit/YouTube However, there’s one important caveat. The 512GB SSD splits the storage into two chips , while the previous version used four. That means its performance is considerably slower, writing at 3,145 MB/s compared to 3,950 MB/s and reading at 2,973 MB/s compared to 4,900 MB/s. The M2 MacBook Pros are still faster than the M1 versions, no matter which drive you select, and the 512GB SSD isn’t exactly slow. But if you’re looking to maximize performance, you’ll want to choose the 1TB or larger drive.
If you’re one of those hardcore creators mentioned previously, perhaps someone who works with 8K video, then the 8TB option is probably worth the (sizable) investment. But you have plenty of choices in between.
How much RAM is enough? Digital Trends You can choose between 16GB and 96GB of RAM for both MacBook Pros, although 64GB and 96GB are options for only the M2 Max versions of each machine. The RAM is unified memory, meaning it’s shared between the CPU and GPU, so keep that in mind as you make your choice.
If you’re simply a productivity user, you can likely get by with 16GB. But creators should choose 32GB or more, with the most demanding users benefitting from the maximum of 96GB. Read our guide on how much RAM you need if you want to dig deeper.
So which is right for you? Sorry, I can’t answer that question. You’ll need to consider how you’ll be using the laptop, how much you’ll be carrying it around, how important that extra screen space is to you, and how much performance you’ll need. Price is another factor, but the higher you configure the laptops , the closer they get in price. Make sure you dig into the details, though, because there are things the 16-inch machine can do (like support four displays) that the 14-inch machine cannot.
Editors' Recommendations Here’s more proof that Apple is wrong about MacBook memory MacBook Pro M3: Should you choose the M3, M3 Pro, or M3 Max? How to watch Apple’s ‘Scary Fast’ Mac launch event if you missed it I saw the new Space Black MacBook Pro, and it’s stunning The M3 Max makes the MacBook Pro look like a nearly unbeatable laptop Apple Laptops Mac Computing Apple's unexpected "Scary Fast" event has wrapped, and the 30-minute presentation was packed full of announcements. Headlining the showcase was Apple's new M3 chip, which is showing up in a variety of devices in just a week from now.
We have the lowdown on everything Apple announced at its unprecedented fall event, which kicks off the third generation of Apple's silicon with two major product updates.
M3 family of chips Computing I know plenty of people walk into Apple Stores and buy a MacBook right off the shelf because they need one. I get it.
But if you're considering a purchase of a MacBook Pro, in particular, it'll really pay off to pump the brakes. Apple is holding a surprise product launch event next Monday, and if the rumors are to be believed, all three MacBook Pros are going to get updated. Upgrading all three at once would be an unprecedented way to upgrade these laptops for Apple as it simultaneously launches the M3, M3 Pro, and M3 Max chips.
Computing In an unexpected twist, Nvidia may soon make more than just some of the best graphics cards. Rumor has it that it's working on ARM-based processors for client PCs. It's not alone in this historic venture, either, because AMD is also said to be readying ARM CPUs.
According to a report from Reuters, both AMD and Nvidia are getting ready to launch ARM-based systems on a chip (SoCs) as early as 2025. The target market will be client PCs that run Windows, which has had a slow and troubled embrace of ARM architecture historically. After how successful such chips have been in Apple's own M1 and M2 silicon, though, it seems obvious that the transition to ARM will need to speed up in order for ARM-powered Windows laptops to truly compete.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
