Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Samsung Galaxy Book 3 Ultra vs. MacBook Pro 16-inch By Mark Coppock Close Apple’s MacBook Pro 16 has emerged as one of the best laptops you can buy in the 16-inch class. It’s incredibly well-built, elegantly designed, superfast and efficient, and has the best keyboard and touchpad on a laptop today. It’s a hard machine to compete with outside of its high price.
Specs Design Performance Display On paper, the MacBook Pro is still strong But that didn’t stop Samsung from pushing out the Galaxy Book 3 Ultra , which is stocked with fast Intel and Nvidia components and aimed at providing a competitive but lighter 16-inch machine. The Galaxy Book3 Ultra looks good on paper, but can it compete with the MacBook Pro 16? Specs Samsung Galaxy Book 3 Ultra Apple MacBook Pro 16 Dimensions 14.0 x 9.86 x 0.65 inches 14.01 x 9.77 x 0.66 inches Weight 3.91 pounds 4.8 pounds Processor Up to Intel 13th-gen Core i9 Apple M2 Pro Apple M2 Max Graphics Nvidia RTX 4050 Nvidia RTX 4070 Integrated Apple GPU RAM 16GB 32GB 16GB 32GB 64GB96GB (M2 Max) Display 16.0-inch 16:10 OLED 2X 3K (2,880 x 1,800) at 120Hz 16.2-inch 16:10 Liquid Retina XDR (3456 x 2234) at 120Hz Storage 512GB SSD 1TB SSD 512GB SSD 1TB SSD 2TB SSD 4TB SSD 8TB SSD Touch No No Ports 2 USB-C with Thunderbolt 4 1 USB-A 1 HDMI 2.0 1 3.5mm audio jack 1 x microSD card reader 3 x USB-C 4 with Thunderbolt 4 1 x HDMI 2.0 1 x 3.5mm audio jack 1 x SD Card reader Wireless Wi-Fi 6E and Bluetooth 5.1 Wi-Fi 6E and Bluetooth 5.2 Webcam 1080p 1080p Operating system Windows 11 MacOS Monterey Battery 76 watt-hour 100 watt-hour Price $2,400+ $2,499+ Rating Not yet reviewed 5 out of 5 stars Design 1.
Samsung Galaxy Book3 Ultra 2.
Apple MacBook Pro 16 The Galaxy Book 3 Ultra and MacBook Pro 16 are almost exactly the same size in width, depth, and thickness. The Samsung is considerably lighter, though, at almost a pound less. That might matter to you, depending on how you plan to use the device, but for many people, a pound isn’t going to make a huge difference.
Both laptops are constructed of aluminum, but we haven’t had a chance to fully check out the Galaxy Book 3 Ultra’s build quality. Samsung makes solid devices, so we’re sure it’s robust, but it has a high standard to meet in competing with the MacBook Pro 16. Apple’s high-end laptops are universally rigid, with unibody CNC machine chassis and lids that resist all bending, flexing, and twisting.
Aesthetically, the Galaxy Book 3 Ultra sports a minimalist design in a Slate color scheme with different lines, but is no more complex than the equally minimalist MacBook Pro 16 that comes in Silver and Space Gray. Both are straightforward and elegant designs that aren’t meant to draw attention, and both are attractive.
Joe Maring/Digital Trends We know that the Magic Keyboard on the MacBook Pro 16 is the best you can get on a laptop today, with shallow keys that are nevertheless snappy, precise, and consistent across every key. We haven’t tested the Galaxy Book 3 Ultra’s keyboard yet, so we’ll have to wait to see how it compares. The MacBook Pro 16’s very large Force Touch haptic touchpad is also the best around, with a precise response across the entire surface and realistic virtual clicks. The Galaxy Book 3 Ultra’s mechanical touchpad is also large, and we’ll report back on its responsiveness once we’ve had a chance to test it.
Connectivity is mixed, with the MacBook Pro 16 having one more Thunderbolt 4 port while the Galaxy Book3 Ultra throws in a legacy USB-A port. The MacBook benefits from a full-size SD card reader compared to the microSD version in the Samsung, and both laptops have the latest wireless connectivity.
Logging in without a password is easy on both laptops, with fingerprint readers embedded in their respective power buttons. And both laptops offer different tools to link up with and interact with each company’s smartphones and tablets.
Performance Image used with permission by copyright holder The MacBook Pro 16 has been updated with Apple’s new M2 Pro and M2 Max CPUs, which are incremental but meaningful updates over the M1 versions. The M2 Pro and Max have more CPU and GPU cores than their predecessors, and promise meaningful performance improvements over what was already a class-leading laptop. The MacBook Pro 16 with the M1 Max has the highest laptop score in our PugetBench Premiere Pro benchmark database, demonstrating real-world performance advantages over equivalent Intel Windows laptops.
The Galaxy Book 3 Ultra will utilize Intel’s 13th-gen Raptor Lake CPUs, up to the Core i9. We don’t know the specifics, though, and so core and thread counts will have a bearing on how fast the laptop is on CPU-intensive tasks. Samsung will offer a choice of Nvidia GeForce RTX 4050 and 4070 GPUs, which will speed up apps like Adobe’s Creative Suite that can utilize the GPU, but we doubt that the combination will keep up with the MacBook Pro 16 M2 Max.
Joe Maring/Digital Trends Of course, that version of the MacBook starts at $3,500 and costs as much as $6,500 when fully configured. We expect the Galaxy Book 3 Ultra to be less expensive than that, so for creators on a budget, there may not be as much of a difference. Both laptops will be overkill for even the most demanding productivity users, and the Galaxy Book 3 Ultra is likely to be the faster gaming laptop.
Battery life should be a win for the MacBook Pro 16. Apple’s M2 Pro and Max CPUs are incredibly efficient while being so powerful, and the latest MacBooks have seen some of the longest battery life results we’ve recorded. We’ll be surprised if the Galaxy Book 3 Ultra is in the same league.
Display Joe Maring/Digital Trends The Galaxy Book 3 Ultra will offer a single display option, specifically a 16.0-inch 16:10 OLED display running at 3K resolution and 120Hz. It’s likely to provide the usual wide and accurate colors and extreme contrast of OLED displays, with the added benefit of a high refresh rate for smooth Windows 11 animations and gaming.
The MacBook Pro 16 utilizes a 16.2-inch 16:10 mini-LED panel at 3456 x 2234 and 120Hz. It will be sharper than the Samsung’s display, and also brighter thanks to mini-LED technology. Colors aren’t likely to be as wide or accurate, though they’ll still be excellent for creators, and contrast will be as deep. Thanks to the display’s incredibly high brightness, the MacBook Pro 16 offers up some of the best HDR you’ll find in a laptop today. The Galaxy Book 3 Ultra maxes out at just 500 nits of HDR brightness.
Both are excellent displays, but the MacBook will likely get the nod thanks to its higher brightness. Extremely discerning creators, though, might opt for the Samsung’s panel thanks to wider and more accurate colors.
On paper, the MacBook Pro is still strong The MacBook Pro 16 is incredibly well-built, superfast and efficient, has a beautiful display, and boasts the best keyboard and touchpad available on a laptop today. It’s also very expensive, starting at around the same price as the Galaxy Book 3 Ultra, but offering configuration options that push its price well past $6,000.
The Galaxy Book 3 Ultra’s performance and battery life will need to be tested before we can draw a firm conclusion. But from what we can tell, it won’t be as fast or as long-lasting as the MacBook, and its sole advantage is likely to be wider and more accurate colors. The MacBook Pro 16 will likely retain its place at the top, even though the Galaxy Book 3 Ultra may end up being a solid alternative.
Editors' Recommendations The MacBook Pro M3 doesn’t have a memory problem — it has a pricing problem Apple’s M3 Max appears to keep up with Intel’s top desktop CPU I saw the new Space Black MacBook Pro, and it’s stunning Everything announced at Apple’s ‘Scary Fast’ event: iMac, M3, and more Whatever you do, don’t buy a MacBook Pro right now Apple Laptops Samsung Computing If you're shopping for a new MacBook, timing is important when trying to get the most for your money. It's especially important since we know the next MacBook Air is currently in the works, and it's said to come with the anticipated M3 chip.
Considering it's been over a year since the 13-inch M2 MacBook Air made its debut, you might assume the update is coming. If you're in the market for a MacBook Air, I would normally advise you to wait until the M3 model comes out. But according to the latest reports, the M3 MacBook Air may be further away than we originally assumed.
Computing With Apple's introduction of the latest M2 MacBook models, it's time to take another look at which is the best MacBook to buy in 2023. That's not always easy, though, as buying the newest MacBook isn't always the right decision. Apple has several tiers of performance, as well as various sizes, which can complicate the matter.
There are several MacBook models available, designated MacBook Air or MacBook Pro, with varying memory and storage configurations, as well as four kinds of processors, providing a wide selection to choose from.
Computing Right now, the best MacBook Pro laptops come with Liquid Retina XDR displays packed with mini-LED tech, and they’re absolutely incredible. Yet despite their quality, there have been persistent rumors that Apple will switch to OLED screens. Well, we’ve got some bad news if you’ve been holding out for this change.
During a webinar with Bloomberg Intelligence (via MacRumors), display industry expert Ross Young claimed that MacBook Pros bearing OLED panels were still at least three years away from being released. That’s a long time to wait if you’re eager for Apple to make its incredible screens even better.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
