Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Features Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? I made an entire PC build for the price of one Nvidia GPU By Monica J. White Close Nvidia makes some of the best graphics cards , but most of them are ridiculously expensive. In fact, some of them are so pricey that you could build a whole gaming PC for the price of one GPU. This is where AMD has an edge — it doesn’t just have more affordable graphics cards, but it also makes processors to match.
Why AMD is a better choice Your AMD gaming PC under $1,500 You don’t have to spend too much By choosing AMD, you might be able to get more bang for your buck than if you were to pick an Intel CPU and an Nvidia GPU. So I did it, picking out all the components for a build you could go out and build today for the price of a single GPU.
Why AMD is a better choice Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Now that both AMD and Nvidia have plenty of hardware up for grabs, it’s a good time to build a PC.
 Both manufacturers have seen some hefty price cuts on their GPUs, and AMD CPUs are cheaper than ever. However, including Nvidia and/or Intel in your build almost always means having to pay more. If you just want a PC that can play AAA games, that’s not always going to be a necessity.
I fell in love with this adorable mini gaming PC Nvidia’s next GPU might follow Apple’s lead — and not in a good way I’m scared of next-gen Nvidia GPUs, and you should be too Just a few months ago, things weren’t so simple. AMD’s graphics lineup was pretty bare, with only the flagship RX 7900 XTX and RX 7900 XT , as well as the budget RX 7600.
 When building a PC for 1440p, you’d be restricted to one of the top cards or to an older RDNA 2 GPU. Now, with the RX 7800 XT and RX 7700 XT finally here, AMD GPUs can fit into any PC build , regardless of your budget.
Nvidia GPUs have one edge over AMD — they have Deep Learning Super Sampling ( DLSS 3 ). While on paper AMD is often around the same level, Nvidia’s frame generation can boost the RTX 4070 to run faster than an RTX 4090 , and that’s saying something. However nice DLSS 3 is, it might not be worth going over budget for; it’s not available in that many games, and many people hardly ever use it.
 If you’re willing to forego buying Nvidia and put up with the lack of DLSS and inferior ray tracing — which, let’s be real, is not a necessity for most gamers — then you can save a lot of money by going down the AMD route.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends While it’s hard to deny that Nvidia still dominates the GPU sphere, AMD is doing far better in its battle against Intel. In an AMD versus Intel scenario, I would recommend using an AMD CPU for gaming almost every time.
Intel processors , be it the 13th generation or its recent 14th-gen refresh, are often better for productivity. Thanks to the increase in core counts, your PC is simply more versatile with Intel.
If you’re into streaming or content creation, Intel is often considered a must. However, if you’re mostly using your PC for games, even if that means simultaneously watching a Twitch stream or using Discord, you’ll be just fine with AMD. The increase in L3 cache versus Intel options has been proven to work time and time again, which is why AMD now makes the best processors for gaming.
Performance aside, money is always a factor.
Nvidia’s top-tier GPU has been getting pricier lately , so the RTX 4090 would cost you around $1,700 or more right now. Even the terrible-value RTX 4080 is around $1,050 to $1,100. With a budget that falls in that range, you can already get yourself a solid gaming PC for the price of a single Nvidia graphics card.
Here’s one such build, along with ideas on how to modify it to fit your needs and your budget.
Your AMD gaming PC under $1,500 Component Price CPU $238 GPU $520 Cooling $75 Motherboard $190 Memory $100 Storage $45 Case $105 Power supply $90 Total $1,365 Here it is — a PC build that falls right between the price of the RTX 4080 and the RTX 4090. At $1,365, you’re getting a midrange PC suited for gaming at 1440p. Let’s go over the components and any potential changes you could make in this build.
CPU For starters, the CPU. At this budget, the Ryzen 5 7600X is a solid choice for gaming purposes. It only has six cores, but it’s an affordable CPU that can hit clock speeds reaching up to 5.3GHz in boost mode, and that’s on top of a 4.7GHz base clock. More importantly, it belongs to AMD’s AM5 platform, which means future-proofing, as AMD will keep supporting this platform until at least the end of 2025.
What upgrades could you make? You could swap to the next CPU in line, meaning the Ryzen 7 7700 or 7700X, but that’s going to cost you extra (up to $310). At that stage, you could spend even more and get the $370 Ryzen 7 7800X3D , which is the fastest CPU for gaming right now. However, these upgrades will require further changes to the build. The Ryzen 7 7700X should be fine with the Be Quiet! cooler I picked out here, but for the 7800X3D, I’d recommend a liquid cooler, as it can run pretty hot. The will fit this case and barely ups the cost of the build, although, of course, better all-in-one (AIO) coolers also exist.
If you want to save a few dollars, you can swap the CPU out for the Ryzen 5 7600. It has slightly lower clock speeds, but it’s more power efficient and generates less heat.
GPU AMD’s recent RX 7800 XT is a logical choice for any build at this price point right now. Although it’s not significantly faster than its predecessor, it costs about the same and is a current-gen card. The is a cheaper alternative, but due to its performance-to-price ratio, it’s just not as good a deal as the RX 7800 XT.
For savings, there’s always the , which will mark a downgrade in performance, but it’ll save you $100 to $120. If you want something better, the is an option at around $610. In that case, though, you should upgrade the power supply to a 750-watt model (or higher), such as the.
Memory and storage Using a Ryzen 7000 processor locks you to DDR5 RAM , which makes it a pricier affair, but is also better for future upgrades. I chose a middle-of-the-road kind of kit for this build, although it’s definitely one of the best DDR5 RAM kits on a budget, and it supports AMD EXPO profiles. You could pick something cheaper, but you could also pick something much more expensive with a higher frequency and better timings. Ultimately, it’s not going to make or break your gaming experience, so it’s an easy expense to pass on.
The same goes for the SSD. I decided to forego adding an HDD to this build, but if you need one, there’s plenty of room for extra storage. The SSD could also be upgraded to a 2TB model, and there are faster SSDs out there if you’re willing to spend more money — but be prepared to pay twice as much or more. The is a much pricier pick that’s better across the board.
Motherboard, PSU, and case While this Gigabyte B650 Gaming X AX is not the cheapest AM5 board you’ll find, it’s often a good idea to allocate a little bit more of your budget toward the motherboard — after all, it’s the spine of your computer. This model is one of the best motherboards at this price range, with a decent VRM and plenty of slots, not to mention Wi-Fi. In all honesty, I wouldn’t change it out for anything here, although the or the are similar options to consider.
As far as the PSU goes, the Seasonic 80+ Gold is a decent option for this build without any upgrades, and will still suffice if you upgrade the CPU as well as a couple of smaller components. It has enough headroom to be just fine with that. However, if you decide to make bigger changes, make sure to pick up a 750W or even 850W option for future-proofing (although that’s pretty overkill). Choose either an 80+ Gold or Platinum PSU, not Bronze, like the I recommended above.
Buying a PC case for any build is always tricky, because it’s not just about airflow and whether everything fits, but also the aesthetic. I picked the Lian Li Lancool 216 because it has two massive 200mm fans and plenty of airflow, but let me warn you — that airflow stems from the fact that it’s pretty huge. This one also comes in white if you prefer that aesthetic. If you plan on making any changes to the case, check out our lineup of the best PC cases and be very, very careful to make sure all the components will fit inside.
You don’t have to spend too much Kunal Khullar / Digital Trends The PC gaming world thrives on marketing. We’re always told that this or that new component is the fastest ever, or that it will deliver some kind of insane performance in games. The truth is that a PC is nothing more than a sum of its parts, and if you’re on a tight budget, it makes no sense to spend $1,000 to $1,700 or more of that budget on the graphics card alone. Most users really don’t need that kind of firepower.
Sure, buying a high-end Nvidia GPU would let your computer breeze through 4K, whereas the computer above is more of a 1440p build. Even so, this is a PC that will last you years and will play games on high to ultra settings. For gaming and gaming alone, it’s cost-effective — and the fact that it still costs just $200 more than the RTX 4080 says a lot about Nvidia’s pricing strategy in this generation. After all, the last-gen RTX 3080 launched with a $700 price tag. If the prices stayed the same, the scales might have tipped more in Nvidia’s favor this time around, too.
Editors' Recommendations Upgrade your PC or start from scratch? Here’s our definitive guide on the question Whatever you do, don’t buy an Nvidia GPU right now Don’t believe the hype — the era of native resolution gaming isn’t over Alan Wake 2 on PC is an embarrassment of riches 23% of PC gamers probably can’t play Alan Wake 2. Here’s why Features PC Gaming Computing There hasn't been a lot of positive reception to Nvidia's graphics cards this generation. There's no doubt that Nvidia's RTX 40-series GPUs are among the best graphics cards you can buy, but with disappointing generational improvements, higher pricing, and reliance on features like DLSS 3, it's easy to write off a new graphics card when Nvidia releases one.
But there's one Goldilocks graphics card from Nvidia's current generation that's the right choice for a lot of PC gamers. It delivers all of the best parts of Nvidia's cutting-edge generation and ignores the insane pricing and disappointing generational uplifts. And now, months after launch, prices have dropped, making it an even better value. That GPU is Nvidia's RTX 4070.
Not a warm reception Computing AMD hasn't done much with its laptop GPUs this generation, but that's changing. The company revealed the new Radeon RX 7900M, which is a mobile GPU that's squarely targeting the performance of Nvidia's RTX 4080.
Although AMD announced laptop GPUs at the beginning of the year, we haven't seen them in very many laptops. It appears that's changing. The RX 7900M is arriving first in the Alienware m18 laptop alongside AMD's Ryzen 9 7945HX processor. AMD hasn't said if we'll see more laptops with the GPU yet, but it looks like we should only expect it high-end, desktop replacement-class machines.
Computing I've had a few gaming laptops in my life, but I really can't see myself ever buying another one -- even though there are definitely times when I could use one. That's not to throw shade to some of the best gaming laptops, because I know those are great for those who can appreciate them. I simply can't bring myself to trust another one again.
I'm not against buying a laptop for gaming, but here are some of the reasons I've continued to resist picking one for myself.
Once burned, twice shy Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
