Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Features Don’t believe the hype — the era of native resolution gaming isn’t over By Jacob Roach Close Image used with permission by copyright holder Native resolution is dead, or so the story goes. A string of PC games released this year, with the most recent being Alan Wake 2 , have come under fire for basically requiring some form of upscaling to achieve decent performance. Understandably, there’s been some backlash from PC gamers, who feel as if the idea of running a game at native resolution is quickly becoming a bygone era.
The outcry The life cycle Upscaling and AA are two sides of the same coin Never simple There’s some truth to that, but the idea that games will rely on half-baked upscalers to achieve reasonable performance instead of “optimization” is misguided at best — and downright inaccurate at worst. Tools like Nvidia’s Deep Learning Super Sampling (DLSS) and AMD’s FidelityFX Super Resolution (FSR) will continue to be a cornerstone of PC gaming, but here’s why they can’t replace native resolution entirely.
The outcry Let’s start with why PC gamers have the impression that native resolution is dead. The most recent outcry came over Alan Wake 2 when the system requirements revealed that the game was built around having either DLSS or FSR turned on. That’s not a new scenario, either. The developers of Remnant 2 confirmed the game was designed around upscaling, and you’d be hard-pressed to find a AAA release in the last few years that didn’t pack in upscaling tech.
Whatever you do, don’t buy an Nvidia GPU right now Windows is holding back the future of handheld gaming This ‘Swiss Army Knife’ app transformed how I play PC games You can see an example of the reaction to Remnant 2 below that focuses on the “consequences” of tools like DLSS on the gaming industry. Another example, which I won’t post, is when a commenter on Reddit jokingly recommended forming a self-harm cult so “they will see the error of their ways and repent,” referring to developers requiring upscaling. Obviously a joke, but it’s a good illustration of the general reaction from the PC gaming community to games increasingly relying on upscaling to improve performance.
Reddit It’s not the upscaling alone that is the problem here. For as many great games have been released this year, there have been a string of disastrous PC ports.
 It’s understandable why PC gamers would look at that, factor in upscaling requirements, and come to the conclusion that features like DLSS and FSR are a crutch for poor optimization. It’s understandable, but that doesn’t make it true.
On top of that, the larger PC community has doubled down on this conversation, further reinforcing the idea that upscaling has been a crutch for poor optimization.
 A clip from The WAN Show podcast, for example, is titled “Native Res Gaming is Dead” and talks about Nvidia’s new DLSS 3.5 feature.
 And in Tom’s Hardware’s coverage of an interview Digital Foundry conducted with Nvidia, the headline reads: “Nvidia says native resolution gaming is out, DLSS is here to stay.” You can see a reaction to that article from a reader below.
Tom's Hardware As is usually the case, these conversations carry nuance to them, but for PC gamers casually browsing headlines with preformed ideas about game optimization, it’s easy to see why the backlash against tools like DLSS and FSR have become an easy, default position. And now that we’re seeing games that basically require upscaling to run, there’s a slippery slope sentiment looming over the PC gaming community.
Once you look outside of the PC gaming community, the progression of graphics in gaming starts to become clearer, and it’s not a straight line.
The life cycle Jacob Roach / Digital Trends PC gaming can be siloed off from the rest of the gaming world. Xbox and PlayStation compete so directly with each other that players on one platform are usually aware of what’s happening on the other platform. On PC, at least, you can stick your head in the sand and mostly ignore what’s going with the consoles. They provide a lot of context for this conversation, though.
We’re just now reaching the point where developers aren’t releasing games on last-gen consoles. We’ve seen a handful over the last few years, most of which have been exclusive to one console or the other. Now, most games are releasing exclusively on next-gen consoles, allowing developers to dial up the quality. Here’s a small sampling of games released on next-gen consoles and on PC this year that didn’t receive a last-gen version: Dead Space Forspoken Star Wars Jedi: Survivor Redfall Remnant 2 Baldur’s Gate 3 Immortals of Aveum Starfield Payday 3 Cyberpunk 2077: Phantom Liberty Forza Motorsport Lords of the Fallen Alan Wake 2 With a couple of exceptions, all of the above games have released with some amount of controversy surrounding their PC performance. By contrast, games that also released on last-gen consoles like Lies of P, Atomic Heart, and Armored Core VI: Fires of Rubicon arrived without too many issues. New games releasing on next-gen consoles are able to push visual quality further, putting more strain on PC hardware.
If you wind the clock back to the previous generation of consoles, the situation wasn’t much different. In a game like Hitman 2016, which didn’t support the Xbox 360 or PlayStation 3, the GTX 970 couldn’t even reach 60 frames per second (fps) at 1080p, and that GPU was only two years old at the time. The same was true in The Division, which was also not released on the PS3 or Xbox 360.
Looking at numbers from a PC Gamer review from around that time, you can see that games that were also on the PS3 and Xbox 360 like Middle-Earth: Shadow of Mordor and Tomb Raider clearly allowed the GTX 970 to hit above 60 fps at 1080p. That’s not dissimilar from what we’re seeing now, but back then, you didn’t have tools like DLSS or FSR to improve performance on PC.
Bill Roberson / Digital Trends This laborious explanation is all to say: consoles are the lowest common denominator, and developers will design their games around what the consoles are capable of. Graphical fidelity doesn’t follow a linear path where each year we see the same jump in how demanding games are. As the consoles continue to age, developers will also need to continue to dial back visual quality to achieve acceptable performance on consoles. If games like Starfield are releasing now locked at 30 fps on console, what do you think games in two or three years will do? Consoles gamers will need to wait for the next version of the Xbox and PlayStation to release to see a big jump in graphics quality, but graphics cards in PCs will keep chugging along in the meantime. In two to three years from now, when we’re a couple of generations down the road for GPUs, new games probably won’t look as demanding on PC as they do today, and the reliance on upscaling to achieve the visual quality we see today will become less important.
There will likely be exceptions as games pack in new forms of rendering to justify the need for more powerful graphics cards, but the visual quality we see in most games today will plateau as consoles struggle to keep up, all while graphics cards push ahead. That’s the cadence we’ve seen for the past two decades, at least, and even among conversations about GPUs getting more expensive and Moore’s Law dying out , that pace doesn’t seem to be slowly down.
Upscaling and AA are two sides of the same coin Sony Interactive Entertainment I don’t want to leave the impression that features like DLSS and FSR are stopgap solutions as games start to leverage the power of the PS5 and Xbox Series X, though. That’s not the case. I suspect DLSS, FSR, and Intel’s XeSS will continue to be essential features in games, and maybe even requirements. But that doesn’t mean they’ll be on upscaling duty.
If you’re unaware of how these tools work, upscaling is only part of what they do. DLSS, FSR, and XeSS also handle anti-aliasing.
 You might notice in games like Alan Wake 2 that you don’t even have an anti-aliasing option. Instead, the game relies on the Temporal Anti-Aliasing (TAA) inside of DLSS and FSR, which is why you can’t turn the features off, even if you’re running the game at native resolution.
It’s clear that Nvidia and AMD, at least, recognize that there will be games where you don’t need to use upscaling. That’s likely why we already have features like Deep Learning Anti-Aliasing (DLAA) and AMD’s FSR 3 Native AA mode, both of which ditch upscaling for better anti-aliasing. If there’s any major trend happening here, it’s that more games are using DLSS and FSR for anti-aliasing instead of their own solutions.
We also need to talk about frame generation, which is a key feature for DLSS 3 and FSR 3.
 Frame generation has enabled things like path tracing in Cyberpunk 2077 and Alan Wake 2, so the new goal post for graphics cards will be to run these features without any frame generation. Once again, I’m sure we’ll see new ways that developers will be able to push frame generation on PC, but it’s not exactly clear what those techniques are right now.
Never simple Trying to nail down trends in the world of PC gaming is never simple, with influences reaching far beyond whatever Nvidia and AMD are doing at the time. For anyone worried that we’re barreling toward a future where upscaling and frame generation will completely replace the need for graphics cards, that’s not much of an issue right now. That could change in the future, but not before these features are indistinguishable from a natively rendered game.
My prediction in the short term is that the need for upscaling and frame generation will start to slow down as the consoles age, with developers understandably limiting the scope of their games to support the most common platform. Eventually, we’ll be in this situation again when the next next-gen consoles release. But making predictions about what that will look like right now is a fool’s errand — for better or worse.
Editors' Recommendations Don’t wait for new GPUs. It’s safe to buy a gaming laptop now 23% of PC gamers probably can’t play Alan Wake 2. Here’s why I can’t get excited about AMD’s next version of FSR anymore I bought Nvidia’s worst-value GPU, but I don’t regret it AMD might still have some next-gen GPUs left in the tank — but I don’t buy it Features PC Gaming ReSpec Computing "The game is poorly optimized on PC," is a phrase I've heard probably 100 times this year alone. It holds some weight. This has been a terrible year for PC releases -- in an otherwise fantastic year for games overall -- and that largely comes down to how games are optimized for the platform. But "optimization," as a term, is tossed around so often that it feels like a lot of gamers are losing sight of what PC optimization actually means.
Most recently, a Bloomberg reporter asked Starfield director Todd Howard the fairly ignorant question: "Why did you not optimize this game for PC?" Howard's response, which I happen to agree with, was simple. "Uh ... we did," he said.
Computing AMD finally shared more details on its FidelityFX Super Resolution 3 (FSR 3) this week, and it's exactly what everyone was asking for. It supports frame generation, and it works across GPUs from AMD and Nvidia. The company is even releasing a driver-based version of its Fluid Motion Frames tech, potentially enabling game support for thousands of titles. It's all good stuff.
But a big question remains: How is AMD going to deal with latency? Computing After nearly a year of waiting, AMD has finally shared more details on its upcoming FidelityFX Super Resolution 3 (FSR 3). If you've seen the original announcement you know what to expect -- it's AMD's FSR upscaling combined with something called Fluid Motion Frames to multiply frame rates. The big news? It works with any GPU.
Well, not technically any GPU. AMD says its Fluid Motion Frames works on anything from the original RDNA generation (RX 5000) and newer, but that includes GPUs from Nvidia and Intel. It's a much different approach than Nvidia's Deep Learning Super Sampling 3 (DLSS 3). The DLSS Frame Generation feature not only requires an Nvidia RTX GPU, but specifically one from the most recent generation like the RTX 4070.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
