Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Features 5 things you should never do with your gaming laptop By Jacob Roach Close You finally settled on the best gaming laptop , but how do you take care of it? There’s the routine maintenance of installing Windows updates and updating your GPU drivers, but there are some critical mistakes you should avoid to keep your gaming laptop running smoothly.
Let it get dirty Leave it in performance mode Use both of your GPUs Forget your charger Overclock your components I’ve reviewed dozens of gaming laptops and used them for years, and I’ve learned that some basic preventative steps can keep your gaming laptop performing at its best. Here are the things you should pay attention to.
Let it get dirty Thana Prasongsin / Getty Images Treat your gaming laptop like royalty. It seems obvious, right? You don’t want your expensive piece of tech getting dirty, and you certainly don’t want it getting caked in dust. But some dog hair here, a little dust there, and you suddenly have a laptop that isn’t running as smoothly as it did out of the box. That’s not to mention a quick snack spilling some crumbs on your keyboard.
Upgrade your PC or start from scratch? Here’s our definitive guide on the question Don’t wait for new GPUs. It’s safe to buy a gaming laptop now A typo is ruining this $700 Asus motherboard — but there’s a fix It’s not just for looks. Keeping your gaming laptop clean is an essential maintenance step that can prolong the life of your machine. A common thread throughout these tips is proper thermal management, which is still a critical aspect of a high-performance gaming laptop in 2023. If you let dust accumulate on the fans, they won’t cool as effectively, and your components won’t boost to their maximum speed.
Just how important are those thermal constraints? I haven’t dirtied an expensive gaming laptop, but I have a good illustration of just how big of a difference thermals can make. If you compare the performance of the Alienware x14 R2 to the Asus ROG Strix G17 , the Asus laptop is somewhere around 20% faster in games despite the fact that both machines include an RTX 4060 GPU. The Strix is able to just push much more cooling due to being a much larger laptop.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends I don’t think you’ll see a 20% drop simply from dust, but there are definitely tangible performance drops you can experience in a gaming laptop if you don’t keep it clean. Cooling efficiency is massive in gaming laptops , so pull out your compressed air and make sure to keep your machine tidy.
Leave it in performance mode Jacob Roach / Digital Trends You don’t always need to run your gaming laptop at full tilt, and in most cases, you shouldn’t. Most gaming laptops come with a handful of performance modes that you can toggle between, and you should default to the highest performance mode when playing most games. Still, the other modes are there for a reason, and you should make good use of them.
The highest performance mode on your gaming laptop will crank the power to the GPU and CPU, as well as increase your fan speed. That’s exactly what you want when playing a demanding game like Cyberpunk 2077, but it’s not a good idea when you’re not pushing your laptop to its limits.
You’re not going to damage your laptop by running it in its highest performance mode constantly, but you will pay in battery life and noise. In cases where you’re just browsing the internet or doing other lightweight tasks, you can bump down to the balanced or even silent mode to extend your battery life and keep your laptop from getting too loud.
It can be applied in gaming situations, too. I was recently playing through Sea of Stars on the Razer Blade 14 , which is a 2D turn-based RPG with pixel art. Not even remotely demanding for a Blade 14 packing an RTX 4070, but the fans were still running at full tilt in the highest performance mode. I was able to bump down to the balanced mode, cut the fan noise almost entirely, and run the game without a second thought about performance. Not every game calls for your laptop to run as fast as it can, and it’s important to recognize those situations and swap to a more appropriate power mode.
Use both of your GPUs Nvidia Your gaming laptop comes with two GPUs. One is the discrete GPU that you use for games, and the other is the integrated GPU that’s built into your processor. The integrated GPU isn’t very powerful, but it’s a good option to have to save battery life when you’re not playing games.
Both AMD and Nvidia have solutions that integrate both — for Nvidia, it’s Optimus, and for AMD it’s Hybrid graphics. The idea is to use both of the GPUs for maximum performance and battery life, but it rarely plays out that way in practice. In most situations, you’ll be sacrificing some gaming performance, even if you’re plugged into a wall and aren’t concerned with battery life.
The solution is to manually switch to only your discrete GPU when playing games, which you can do in the Nvidia Control Panel or Radeon Software. There are some games where you won’t see a massive uptick in performance, but others could show gains of 10% or more with the integrated GPU removed as a bottleneck.
This is becoming less of an issue with more modern laptops. Nvidia’s Advanced Optimus can switch to the discrete GPU automatically, for example, delivering on the promise of the best performance and best battery life. In addition, MUX switches are becoming more common on gaming laptops , which bypass the integrated graphics entirely (though at the cost of battery life). In both of these cases, however, make sure your laptop supports these features. If it doesn’t, you’ll need to manually swap between the preferred GPUs.
Forget your charger Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Gaming laptops don’t usually have the best battery life, but you’ll want to keep your charger handy regardless. Playing games on battery power is a bad idea, not only for lower performance but also for the longevity of your gaming laptop.
Even if you’re playing games in the highest performance mode, most gaming laptops can’t draw the power they require solely off the battery in demanding gaming situations. If you’re playing games on your laptop without the charger attached, you’re leaving a lot of performance on the table. That’s not to mention the issues with battery life you’ll run up against.
It’s hard on your battery, too. Although years ago it wasn’t a good idea to leave laptops plugged in indefinitely, it’s not as much of a concern today. Most laptops stop charging when the battery reaches full capacity, giving power directly to the machine without cycling the battery. If anything, letting your battery completely drain and fully recharging it will do more damage over time.
Note this only applies if your laptop is in use.
If you’re leaving your gaming laptop alone for an extended period of time, drain the battery to about half capacity before shutting off the machine, and don’t leave it plugged in during that time.
Overclock your components Jacob Roach / Digital Trends There’s nothing stopping you from overclocking the GPU in your gaming laptop, and even some modern Intel CPUs allow for overclocking. It’s just not a great idea in most situations. As you can probably guess, that all comes down to thermals.
A lot of gaming laptops can hit thermal limits even at stock settings — there’s a reason tools like ThrottleStop exist and are still updated to this day — so pushing your components any further will not only provide no benefit in your performance, it could reduce the longevity of your components. That’s especially true if your components are just barely making it by thermally at stock settings.
There’s some nuance here, however. Although it’s generally not a good idea to overclock components in your laptop, it’s not always out of the question. Massive laptops like the MSI GT77 Titan can handle the extra heat, so you might be able to get away with a bit of overclocking. In addition, some laptops include an option in the bundled software to overclock the GPU, such as the Asus ROG Zephyrus M16.
 This is within recommended use, so you can use the overclock option without any concern.
There are some laptops that can handle a minor overclock, but most can’t. It’s best to stay within the recommended parameters your laptop can handle, as most laptop brands are already pushing their gaming laptops as far as they can go (even to a throttling fault).
Editors' Recommendations This is the best Dell gaming laptop you can buy I fell in love with this adorable mini gaming PC Whatever you do, don’t buy an Nvidia GPU right now What reviews didn’t say about the Steam Deck OLED Steam Deck OLED fixes the worst part of Valve’s handheld Features Laptops PC Gaming Computing As someone who tinkers with PC hardware for a living, I'm generally the first stop for friends and family members who are having issues with their PC. There are a lot of simple fixes -- it's still easy to swap your WASD and arrow keys, for instance -- but also a fair share of problems that go deeper.
I have a checklist of troubleshooting steps that I share over a call or text. Did you run Windows update? Have you checked your drivers? Are you using the latest BIOS? And it's that last question where I often run into issues.
Computing When Intel's first-gen GPUs launched, their performance had some serious weaknesses. Intel acknowledged this before the launch of the GPUs, promising that it would improve performance through driver updates in the future. It's Intel's take on AMD's classic "fine wine" approach to GPU drivers that we've seen in the past.
And that's exactly what it did. It seems like every week Intel has been making headlines with massive performance improvements in individual games. But the big payoff from these drivers isn't just for the Arc A770 and A750. These big driver boosts are laying a foundation for Intel's next-gen Battlemage GPUs, and they could make all the difference.
Starting from the bottom Computing Native resolution is dead, or so the story goes. A string of PC games released this year, with the most recent being Alan Wake 2, have come under fire for basically requiring some form of upscaling to achieve decent performance. Understandably, there's been some backlash from PC gamers, who feel as if the idea of running a game at native resolution is quickly becoming a bygone era.
There's some truth to that, but the idea that games will rely on half-baked upscalers to achieve reasonable performance instead of "optimization" is misguided at best -- and downright inaccurate at worst. Tools like Nvidia's Deep Learning Super Sampling (DLSS) and AMD's FidelityFX Super Resolution (FSR) will continue to be a cornerstone of PC gaming, but here's why they can't replace native resolution entirely.
The outcry Let's start with why PC gamers have the impression that native resolution is dead. The most recent outcry came over Alan Wake 2 when the system requirements revealed that the game was built around having either DLSS or FSR turned on. That's not a new scenario, either. The developers of Remnant 2 confirmed the game was designed around upscaling, and you'd be hard-pressed to find a AAA release in the last few years that didn't pack in upscaling tech.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
