Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Features This PC case has a touchscreen, but it’s way more than a gimmick By Jacob Roach Close Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Hyte is challenging the status quo once again. The company, which quickly made it to the top of the list of best PC cases with its Y60, has a crazy new concept called the Y70 Touch. It’s a PC case that has a built-in touchscreen, and although it’s clearly a premium chassis choice, it’s much more attainable than you might expect.
Not your normal Y60 Let’s talk about the touchscreen Into the Nexus More than a touchscreen At $360, the Hyte Y70 Touch isn’t just a premium case built exclusively for show floors. It’s a real product, and although it’s much more expensive than most PC cases, it’s not out of the question for a high-end build.
The 10-point multi-touch screen is the main draw of Hyte’s new case, but the company used the opportunity to rethink the design of its wildly popular Y60 and make it an even better option to build your next PC in.
Alan Wake 2 is proof that more PC games need a potato mode Samsung’s Odyssey Neo G9 launches in October — if you can stomach its insane price It’s time to stop trying to play games without an SSD Not your normal Y60 Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Hyte’s Y60 quickly reached mythical status among the enthusiast PC crowd, sitting alongside cases like the Lian Li PC-O11D. You’d be forgiven for thinking the Y70 Touch is a Y60 with a screen, but it actually has a little more going on.
It carries the same “fish tank” design that has made the Y60 so iconic, but Hyte took some of the lessons it learned with the Hyte Y4 0 and applied them here. For starters, you don’t have any thumbscrews for the side panels. It’s a completely tool-less design with the Y70 Touch, while the Y60 still uses a thumbscrew for each of the side panels.
Hyte made the case bigger overall, too. The Y60 has a volume of 60 liters, while the Y70 touch is just over 70 liters. It’s a few millimeters taller and longer, and it’s about about 35 millimeters wider. That extra width allows Hyte to squeeze in a fourth PCIe bracket for the vertical GPU mount. That was one of the issues with the Y60 in the wake of graphics cards like the RTX 4090 , where some designs can occupy a full four slots.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends But one of the biggest improvements comes in the form of fan support. You can now fit three 120mm fans on the bottom or the side of the case. The original Y60 only supports two in either position, leaving an awkward gap at the top and bottom of the fan stack. On the side, you can now fit a 360mm radiator as well, which is a huge boost for this design.
Even better, you can fit a much thicker radiator at the top. The Y70 Touch supports up to a 360mm radiator that’s 68mm thick, while the Y60 was restricted to a 32mm radiator. Hyte removed the dip for the radiator mount that’s present on the Y60, giving you room for a bigger radiator. Hyte also reduced the bezel side on the side panel, giving you a clearer view of your fans.
That’s a lot of changes, but what makes the Y70 Touch so impressive is that you would think it’s the exact same case as the Y60 when looking at it. Despite being bigger, it doesn’t feel any bigger, and you only really notice the difference if you have both cases sitting side by side. I’m glad that Hyte took the opportunity to make its iconic case design better, instead of just slapping an existing screen mod on the same body. The biggest weakness of the Y70 is that Hyte currently isn’t offering it without the touchscreen. But there are some clear improvements here, touchscreen or not.
Let’s talk about the touchscreen Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Despite some clear improvements in case design, the showstopper here is the capacitive touchscreen. We need some context, though. Hyte currently sells an LCD mod kit for the Y60 that replaces the corner glass with a screen. It’s $150, bringing the price of a Y60 and a touchscreen mode to $10 less than the Y70 Touch. However, the Y70’s screen is much better.
For starters, the Y70 includes a touchscreen that support up to 10 points of contact. The touchscreen is shockingly useful. You can do things like scroll Twitch chat through Hyte’s Nexus software (more on that soon), as well as pull up and use a calculator widget. Hyte even includes a basic form of Tetris that you can play on the touchscreen.
It’s also a much higher resolution. The Y70 Touch’s display has a resolution of 1,100 x 3,840, which comes out to 283 pixels per inch. That’s extremely sharp for a display. It makes the display feel usable and much less like a gimmick compared to the 515 x 1,920 LCD panel that you can mod the Y60 with.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Hooking it up is much simpler than modding the Y60, too. Hyte hooks up almost everything you need out of the box, so all you’re left to do is run a USB header to your motherboard, connect the DisplayPort cable on the back of the case to your graphics card , and connect SATA power. Hyte includes a small DisplayPort cable with the case, reducing the mess at the back of the case.
Getting everything set up after that point is a little tricky, though. The Y70 Touch includes a screen, and Windows will pick it up as such. There’s no saying if Windows will designate it as your primary display. In my case, Windows picked it up as the primary display, sending me down a short sprint of turning my head sideways and wrestling with the cursor to get everything set up properly.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends You can use the Y70 Touch like this, with the screen basically serving as a second monitor. It comes alive with Hyte’s Nexus software, though, enabling widgets and the touchscreen functionality.
Into the Nexus Jacob Roach / Digital Trends You need Hyte’s Nexus software to get the Y70 Touch up and running properly. I tested a beta version of the software, but it already shows a ton of promise. Once it’s installed, Nexus runs you through a few simple configuration steps. You need to set up a handful of things in Windows for the display to work properly, and thanks to Nexus, the display was working in less than 30 seconds.
Hyte provides a default configuration, but you have a ton of options to customize the display. Like a smartphone , you have widgets that you can add to the screen, including the calculator widget I mentioned previously. There are a ton of other options, too.
Some highlights include Twitch chat and OBS status, bypassing the need for streamers to have a second monitor. You also have some basic widgets like a clock and weather, along with a media player, performance overlay, and a photo gallery. In addition, Hyte promises Nexus will get widgets for Google Calendar, RSS feeds, notes, an audio visualizer, and IFTTT integration, but they weren’t available the beta version I tested.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends In addition, Hyte provides a smartphone-style app row at the bottom, giving you quick access to the Windows File Explorer, Task Manager, and the Tetris- style mini-game. You also have multiple windows you can swipe through, similar to a phone, giving you access to even more widgets.
This is brought together with video backgrounds. Hyte includes several looping backgrounds that you can use, but you can also add your own media to play behind the widgets. Hyte warns this could impact performance, so you thankfully have the option to turn off the videos, go with a gradient background, or set the background as a custom image.
More than a touchscreen Jacob Roach / Digital Trends The touchscreen on the Hyte Y70 Touch is definitely a big deal, but you shouldn’t ignore the case itself. This is a premium PC case with smart improvements over an already stellar design, and the touchscreen is just an interesting perk stacked on top.
Still, most people aren’t in the market for a case this expensive. But he Y70 Touch is worth the price, particularly for those looking for a high-end case to keep pace with a high-end PC inside. Anyone not building a top-end PC will have a hard time justifying it, however.
Hopefully Hyte will release a version without the touchscreen in the future. The Y70 is a massively improved version of the Y60, and it would be a go-to recommendation at a reasonable price without the touchscreen.
Editors' Recommendations I fell in love with this adorable mini gaming PC This Noctua-themed gaming PC is a bespoke beauty — and you can buy it Asus just embarrassed everyone with its new gaming keyboard This dual-PC desktop is insane in more ways than one Consoles still have one big advantage, and it’s hurting PC gaming Features PC Gaming Computing "PC or console?" It's a question I get from friends often, especially when a big cross-platform game launches. Most recently, it arose when a friend asked about Star Wars Jedi: Survivor.
To my own surprise, I pointed him in the direction of his television, not his desktop. And the same has been true with other flagship games released this year, including Hogwarts Legacy and The Last of Us Part 1.
Computing The early impressions of Redfall aren't positive, and its PC performance isn't doing the game any favors. I originally came into this story with a specific angle about how certain GPUs would struggle to run the game more than others, but the more I dug in, the more I realized there are compromises no matter where you look.
On one hand, Redfall is a relief due to the fact that it even runs in the first place, especially among games like Star Wars Jedi: Survivor and The Last of Us Part 1 that have launched in dire states. It's still hard overlooking the problems in the PC port, though, which are present if you're not running the latest and greatest hardware.
Lesser of two evils Computing The Last of Us on PC has launched in a dire state. Although I haven't experienced as many issues as some players are reporting, the consensus is clear: the game is buggy, poorly optimized, and underbaked. It's currently sitting with a Mostly Negative review status on Steam, which is typically reserved for the most broken games, like Battlefield 2042.
Consider yourself warned if you want to jump into Joel and Ellie's story on PC, especially if you just finished off the excellent HBO series. For players who already have the game, there's a particular issue you should be aware of that relates to Nvidia's Deep Learning Super Sampling (DLSS) and AMD's FidelityFX Super Resolution (FSR), as well as demands on your system that go far beyond the recommended specs.
A possible source of stutter Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
