Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Features Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? I tried 3 popular gaming headsets, and they all failed me By Monica J. White Close As a gamer who often plays online, a gaming headset has always seemed like a necessity for me. After all, I don’t just need speakers or headphones — I need the whole package, meaning headphones and a microphone. Given the amount of gaming headsets on the market, you’d think it’d be easy to find a good pair of cans with a mic that works. Spoiler alert: It’s not.
Everything, all at once I really tried When two is better than one I gave gaming headsets way too many chances and sank way too much money into them, only to be disappointed again and again. After trying three of the most popular options, I’m ready to say that I’m done. Here’s what happened.
Everything, all at once Corsair There’s a problem with gaming headsets that’s not talked about enough, and it’s simultaneously the best thing about them: They do too many things at once, and that can impact the build quality. While this is to be expected, it’s only viable up to a certain point. Once you sacrifice too much just to get all of these features in a single package, it no longer makes much sense.
This new gaming mouse isn’t the best, but it became my favorite anyway Razer launches the Kraken V3 X, a new $70 gaming headset I’ll be the first to tell you that gaming headsets can be great if you’re like me and hate having to deal with annoying cables, plugging in multiple devices, keeping track of where everything is, and so on. They’re just easier to use than other options, but sadly, jamming all of that inside a headset comes at a price.
It’s not just headphones and a microphone. USB headsets come with their own onboard audio drivers, while those with a 3.5mm audio jack rely on your motherboard to deliver audio. Gaming headphones are often closed-back, meaning some level of noise cancellation. Then, there’s the unique gamer aesthetic and marketing that you need to pay a premium for. A lot of these headsets in the mainstream sector cost less than $100 to $150, and some of them dip below $50. When you add all of that up and still try to make a profit, it’s clear that cutting costs on build quality might happen.
Gaming headsets are the epitome of the phrase “jack-of-all-trades, master of none.” The rest of that saying is “but oftentimes better than a master of one,” but that isn’t always the case here. Gaming headsets can do all the things they’re advertised to do, but they also fall behind in many ways.
A headset gives you the worst out of either side, be it the mic or the audio, unless you’re prepared to pay for one of the best gaming headsets — and those can cost $200 to $300 and up. It might be decent for games, but the moment you want to chat on Discord or put on some music, the audio (or microphone) quality tends to fall flat. These headsets are also, in my own experience, susceptible to various issues, even when handled with care.
Buying a gaming headset also means paying the gamer tax that’s also present in peripherals like mice and keyboards. These headsets might be tailored to the needs of gamers, with features like surround sound, noise cancellation, or being able to mute your microphone with a press of a button. But for me, those features didn’t make up for the problems that cropped up.
I really tried Jacob Roach / Digital Trends I really gave gaming headsets a proper chance. Over the last three years, I’ve tried a total of four, as well as one pair of non-gaming headphones. Out of all five, there’s only one model that I’m happy with, and it sure isn’t one of the headsets.
I started out with a Razer Kraken headset. I found it uncomfortable, and the microphone quality was pitiful. The pleather earpads started flaking really early on, too.
I eventually caved and bought a new headset, this time the wireless version of the HyperX Cloud Flight. I’d only heard good things about it, and while I liked it for the comfort of wear and decent sound quality, it had a couple of things that bothered me. For one, the volume control on the left headphone was very easy to trigger just by moving my arm or neck. As a result, I’d randomly have the volume slide all the way to the top or the bottom, because once it started, it wouldn’t stop. Needless to say, my ears were not happy.
What finally prompted me to return this headset after just a few months of use was the fact that the battery would die after 1 to 3 hours — and that’s on a full charge.
Razer I got a new pair as a replacement. This marks headset number three, or two if we can count both the HyperX’s as the same device. Once I got my replacement, I hoped that all of these issues would have been resolved. However, the volume control remained trigger-happy, hurting my ears every so often. This headset also came with its own issue — it lost signal at random. It was time to move on.
Right now, I have a SteelSeries Arctis Nova 7, and I can’t say that I hate it. The microphone is the best out of all four. The headphones are reasonably comfortable, and while I definitely don’t find them great for music or movies, they were made for gaming. But, of course, there’s just one problem.
The headset won’t stop turning itself off at random, often in midsentence; for me, that’s a pretty major dealbreaker. It’s still under warranty, but I’m not even sure whether I want to get a new one at this point.
I’ve sworn off gaming headsets for good, and the alternate solution has been staring me in the face for many long months.
When two is better than one Jaron Schneider / Digital Trends Failed headset after failed headset, one pair of cans stayed consistent and excellent — my sub-$100 Audio-Technica ATH-AVA400 open-back headphones. They’re not even wireless, which I greatly prefer these days, but their quality makes up for that. I’m not an audiophile, so as long as something sounds good and doesn’t break unreasonably quickly, I’m satisfied. My ATH headphones meet that criteria while sounding significantly better than any of the gaming headsets that I’ve tried, and they were also cheaper than most of them.
I finally realized that the solution is simple, and it’s not to ditch the microphone. It’s to get a microphone in addition to a solid pair of headphones.
There are a few benefits from trading one device for two (or three, if you want to also get yourself a DAC/amp). For one, you’re getting two devices that were specifically made for that one purpose, be it to deliver audio or to transmit it. It might not sound like much, but that focus certainly makes all the difference compared to a combined gaming headset.
Next, you’re most likely getting something better for roughly the same price. Much like with gaming headsets, you can mix and match to get something cheaper or pricier, but this is generally true across many price different price points. If you’re on a budget, you can most likely “build” a combo for under $80. Cheaper gaming headsets do exist, but they’re usually not much to write home about.
When it comes to headphones without a microphone, we have a ranking of some of the best headphones that are worth looking at. You’ll find that the brands in our ranking differ from what gamers are used to. You’ll find Sony, Bose, Sennheiser, and more. I personally truly recommend Audi0-Technica as a fairly affordable option. It also makes some gaming headsets like the ATH-GDL3 , but again — it’s often better to break those two things up.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends What about microphones? You don’t need one of those massive streamer-esque boom mics that attach to the desk, although they’re an option. The closest alternative to a headset is the pricey, but solid Antlion ModMic. The wired options start at around , and there’s a wireless version for.
 This is essentially an attachable microphone that you can combine with any pair of headphones to create your own gaming headset. It sounds leagues better than any headset I’ve owned, and it can go with you once you switch out your headphones for a new pair. If the price tag puts you off, the Zalman ZM-MIC1 is just , and while it’s not outstanding, it’ll do.
Then, there are microphones like the recent SteelSeries Alias Pro or the famous Blue Yeti. Those are probably as good as it gets without additional audio hardware, but they take up room on your desk, so it’s a trade-off. Be wary that once you fall down the rabbit hole of upgrading your headphones and microphone, you might end up spending way more than you initially planned.
Your mileage may vary, and this is just my personal experience, so if you’re in the market for a headset, don’t be swayed by my opinion. Excellent gaming headsets that don’t cost an arm and a leg do exist, such as the HyperX Cloud Alpha.
With a bit of research, you’re bound to find something that suits your needs if you like the concept of gaming headsets — especially if you’re willing to fork out some extra cash. I just know that for me, I found myself far more satisfied once I gave up the idea of headsets altogether.
Editors' Recommendations The new SteelSeries Arctis Nova 7 headset brings hi-fi audio under $200 Razer’s new Kraken V3 headset might give you a headache (in a good way) The new Razer Kraken X is a $50 gaming headset with 7.1 surround sound Features Headphones PC Gaming Computing The design of Apple's Magic Mouse continues to be a major complaint among Mac users, a blight on Apple's otherwise fantastic design choices. The ergonomics are inhuman, it still uses a Lightning charging port (even on the new M3 iMac), and it can't be charged while being used.
However, an engineer has introduced his design concept that would not only solve the charging issue on the Magic Mouse but also make the design ergonomic and comfortable for natural handling.
Computing Lenovo is probably one of the best-known laptop makers, especially since they have an incredibly wide variety of them to choose from. That also means they have an excellent selection of gaming laptops, so you can hone in on something that fits your budget. That's especially the case with the ongoing early Black Friday deals that are seeing laptops being cut down in price across the board. That said, Lenovo's selection of gaming laptops is too wide for us to include all their active deals here, so we've selected some of our favorites for both AMD and Intel CPUs. Also, if you're not sure of where to start, you should check out our list of best Lenovo laptops for some good options.
Best Lenovo Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals (AMD) Lenovo has a wider selection of AMD gaming laptops, which is great if you want to go with something AMD-powered. Unfortunately, there aren't any good deals on Lenovo laptops with both an AMD CPU and GPU, but the selection below is wide enough to pick something that fits your needs a bit better. And, if you want something with an RTX 4090 on a budget, then the AMD version is probably the cheapest for Lenovo.
Computing Printers are complicated machines featuring a mix of plastics, metals, electronics, and components, some of which are potentially flagged as hazardous waste. In 2023, it's more important than ever to be kind to the planet, and there are several environmentally safe ways to dispose of a printer.
Even the best printers in the world can reach the end of their life after several years if ink or toner is no longer available. A well-loved printer can suffer from accumulated wear and tear or damage from a catastrophic power surge that's too expensive to repair.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
