Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Features Intel’s next-gen GPUs are its first real shot at being the best By Jacob Roach Close Jacob Roach / Digital Trends When Intel’s first-gen GPUs launched, their performance had some serious weaknesses. Intel acknowledged this before the launch of the GPUs, promising that it would improve performance through driver updates in the future. It’s Intel’s take on AMD’s classic “fine wine” approach to GPU drivers that we’ve seen in the past.
Starting from the bottom All-in on Battlemage And that’s exactly what it did. It seems like every week Intel has been making headlines with massive performance improvements in individual games.
 But the big payoff from these drivers isn’t just for the Arc A770 and A750.
 These big driver boosts are laying a foundation for Intel’s next-gen Battlemage GPUs, and they could make all the difference.
Starting from the bottom Twitter/Pat Gelsinger As mentioned, performance was a big problem at launch for these first Intel cards, but they also came with a slew of software issues. Despite offering competitive performance in newer games, the Arc A750 and A770 were a sobering reminder for early adopters of just how stable the software from Nvidia and AMD truly is.
This PC case has a touchscreen, but it’s way more than a gimmick It’s the end of an era for Intel Intel’s next GPU just leaked, and it looks like a sub-$200 card worth buying Down but not out, Intel went to work on its drivers, and the Arc A750 and A770 have silently become excellent GPUs in the process. DirectX 9 performance is now up to par, and in games like Cyberpunk 2077 and Horizon Zero Dawn, the GPUs can finally compete with cards like the RTX 3060 Ti. There’s also the slew of updates targeted at games like Halo: The Master Chief Collection and Deus Ex: Human Revolution.
That work has continued, even as the Arc A770 and A750 start to age. Beating the RTX 3060 Ti is an accomplishment, but it doesn’t matter much when cards like the RTX 4060 offer better performance and better features at a lower price. Intel’s work to improve performance through drivers still matters, though, if not for the Arc A770 and A750, then for next-gen Battlemage GPUs.
RedGamingTech Intel revealed four GPU generations when it announced its first-gen Arc GPUs (code-named Alchemist at the time). The next generation in the lineup is Battlemage, which will reportedly launch early next year. We don’t know much about Battlemage right now, but Intel’s foundational work on drivers could make them a big deal.
All-in on Battlemage Jacob Roach / Digital Trends AMD and Nvidia have all but abandoned GPUs below $300. AMD has its RX 7600 at $270, but even Nvidia’s lowest-end RTX 4060 comes in at $300. Given what we’ve seen with GPU prices over the past year, that doesn’t seem to be changing. Meanwhile, Intel has committed itself to the budget end of the GPU spectrum, with the Arc A770 at around $300 and the A750 as low as $220.
The problem, up to this point, has just been Intel’s drivers. We’ve seen a lot of boosts in performance, but it’s hard to justify going with an Intel GPU, even if you save a little bit of money, when some games still inexplicably show performance problems. The fact that Intel delivered a 750% improvement in Halo: The Master Chief Collection just last week is a testament to the fact that there are still fires Intel needs to put out in its drivers.
The hope is that Intel can put out enough of those fires by the time Battlemage is ready. For the past year, it may have been hard to trust Intel to continue fixing issues with certain games through drivers, but the track record of the company is strengthening. And once Battlemage is here, there’s a good chance Intel will have its drivers finally figured out. In the context of the A750 and A770, the driver improvements don’t seem like such a big deal. In the context of Battlemage, however, they make all the difference.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends That’s an exciting prospect for budget-minded gamers whose options have been few and far between over the past several years. If Battlemage can launch relatively free of driver-related bugs, it might be enough to force Nvidia and AMD to reconsider gamers on a strict budget. It’s not an insignificant threat, either. In just half a year on the market, Intel was able to capture 4% of the GPU market, according to Jon Peddie Research.
 That’s a third of what AMD holds, and that was despite all of the games that still showed performance problems on Arc.
As for what we can expect out of Battlemage, it’s hard to say. It seems clear that Intel will continue focusing on PC gamers on a budget rather than competing with flagships like the AMD RX 7900 XTX or Nvidia RTX 4090.
 Current rumors say that Intel is prepping a higher-end Battlemage GPU that could compete with Nvidia’s RTX 4070 Ti, but even if that’s true, it’s hard to imagine a single flagship will replace more cost-effective options.
From the beginning, it was clear that Intel had price and performance in modern games nailed with its Arc GPUs — it was just the drivers holding the cards back. With Battlemage looming on the horizon, Intel may finally have a real shot at delivering the type of budget GPU that Nvidia and AMD have mostly ignored.
And once they’re here, Intel’s work on Arc will hopefully continue. Intel’s Tom Petersen told Digital Trends that the company understands how important that is: “It is well understood within our organization that, you know, driver updates are what’s going to make the difference between our success and lack of success.” Editors' Recommendations I tested Intel’s new overclocking tool, and it does AI all wrong This Intel gaming handheld could give the Steam Deck a run for its money I can’t get excited about AMD’s next version of FSR anymore Intel 14th-gen Meteor Lake: news, rumors, release date speculation Nvidia is cheating with its GPUs, and that’s great for laptops Features Intel PC PC Gaming Computing AMD has said it's done with new GPU dies, but a filing with the European Economic Commission (EEC) suggests that Team Red could still launch graphics cards in its RX 7000 range.
The filing points to AMD releasing an RX 7600 XT sometime in the future, both in 12GB and 10GB variants. AMD's Scott Herkelman says the RDNA 3 lineup is "complete," so what gives? It comes down to the GPU dies.
Computing When AMD announced its limited-edition, Starfield-themed GPU, the PC gaming world had a collective question: How can I get one? We've seen a couple of giveaways, but we've now seen the first one go up for sale on eBay -- with bidding currently at $3,500.
Bidding started on the card just hours before this story was written, so it'll likely sell for much more once the one-week auction is done. This is a bundle, which includes both an limited-edition Starfield RX 7900 XTX and a Ryzen 7 7800X3D in an exclusive Starfield-themed box. It also comes in a collector's box, fit with Starfield-themed GPU cables and a badge of authenticity.
Computing Intel’s next-gen desktop CPUs are just around the corner, which means that we can expect even more leaks to make rounds on the internet. The latest one gives us an indication of what kind of pricing we can expect from the upcoming Raptor Lake Refresh.
As per a tweet shared by @momomo_us, Intel’s 14th-gen CPUs will be priced higher than the current crop of 13th-gen desktop processors. Notably, all the prices shared (in what seems to be a screenshot from a retail store webpage) are for the K-variants, which usually entice enthusiast and gaming consumers. The top-tier Core i9-14900K is set for a price increase of $95 compared to the 13900K, which was already an expensive chip at $600 during launch. The Core i7-14700K could carry a price of $485, while the most affordable overclockable desktop chip, the Core i5-14600KF, will be available for $345.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
