Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Acer Chromebook Vero 514 Review Chromebook vs Laptop Screenshot on a Chromebook Reset a Chromebook Best Chromebooks Chromebook Problems Split Screen on a Chromebook Home Computing Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Samsung Galaxy Chromebook 2 review: Less fun for a better price By Luke Larsen Close $700.00 QLED screen is gorgeous Rock solid design Responsive, quiet keyboard Fast performance Thick bottom bezel Sloppy touchpad Each year, we expect technology to be faster and better than in the previous year. Samsung did the opposite with the Galaxy Chromebook 2.
Design Keyboard and touchpad Display and speakers Performance Battery life Our take It has a lower-resolution screen, it’s thicker and heavier, and it doesn’t come with a built-in S Pen slot. It even uses a slower processor. What kind of a sequel is that? All of Samsung’s videos from today’s Galaxy Unpacked event Samsung Galaxy Book 3 Ultra vs. MacBook Pro 16-inch Asus Zenbook Fold 17 vs. Lenovo ThinkPad X1 Fold Gen 2: foldable fun Well, the Galaxy Chromebook 2’s name may be a misnomer, but the device hits a sweet spot for Chromebooks in terms of price at $550. It’s a far more palatable price than the $999 of the original Galaxy Chromebook.
 But has Samsung sacrificed what made this laptop special to get the price down? Design Image used with permission by copyright holder The Samsung Galaxy Chromebook had two unmistakable features: The insane thinness of its profile and the bold red color of the chassis. The color remains, though there’s now a more generic silver option as well.
Its size, unfortunately, has grown. The original was a breathtaking 0.39 inches thick — and just 2.29 pounds. It’s still one of the lightest laptops you can buy. The sequel is a much more conventional 2.71 pounds and 0.55 inches thick. That’s not overly large by any means, but it’s now slightly thicker and heavier than the Pixelbook Go.
 It’s also in step with the Asus Chromebook Flip C436 , another premium Chromebook.
That’s not to say this is a bad-looking laptop in the slightest. The Fiesta Red color is as fun as ever, and the build quality is exceptional. I miss the CNC cut sidewalls, but it’s still one of the prettiest Chromebooks you can buy. That is, before I got my fingerprints over the lid. It’s a bit of a fingerprint magnet.
But overall, I much prefer the sharper angles and edges to the overly round style of the Pixelbook Go.
Image used with permission by copyright holder One feature of the design that hasn’t changed is the bottom bezel. In the past year, though, we’ve begun to see a shift toward taller screens with slimmer chins, whether that’s 16:10 or 3:2. Even Chromebooks like the Acer Chromebook Spin 713 have moved to the boxy 3:2 aspect ratio, which I’ve come to prefer over the squat 16:9.
Either way, the bottom bezel is an eyesore, though it’s a problem the Pixelbook Go and Acer Chromebook Spin 713 have as well. Only the Asus Chromebook Flip C436 has managed to cut enough fat off the bottom bezel to meet modern laptop standards.
Port selection hasn’t changed, still limited to just two USB-C ports and a microSD card slot. You’ll also find a power button and volume rocker on the sides.
This is, of course, because the Galaxy Chromebook 2 has a 360-degree hinge. The heftier size and lack of a built-in stylus limit the usability of the device as a tablet, but that’s unlikely the reason you’re buying a Chromebook anyway.
Keyboard and touchpad Image used with permission by copyright holder The color of the keycaps is the most notable change to the keyboard. They’re now black, which is a bit more conventional. And also a bit more boring.
It’s still a delightful keyboard to type on though, so long as you can get familiar with the low travel. The keys are clicky while remaining quiet, and I found myself happily typing along in just a few minutes at my normal speed.
The touchpad isn’t as nice of an experience. It’s spacious, but the surface isn’t as smooth as I’d like, which leads to awkward clicks and drags and finger skips.
Display and speakers Image used with permission by copyright holder The original Samsung Galaxy Chromebook had an OLED 4K screen. That’s practically unheard of for a Chromebook. As gorgeous as it was, its impact on battery life didn’t feel worth the extra pixels. The 1080p QLED screen Samsung has gone with here is a much better choice. Samsung’s patented QLED screen tech has produced great results in laptops like the Galaxy Book Flex.
It’s not as bright as a MacBook Pro or Surface Pro 7 , but the Galaxy Chromebook 2’s 13.3-inch screen makes up for it in colors. Images and videos really are colorful but without ever appearing oversaturated. You can thank the quantum-dot tech for that kind of color reproduction, which is rare to find outside of 4K panels.
All of that would make for a great multimedia experience — that is, if these speakers sounded better. They’re pointed down instead of up at your face, with the grills flat against the bottom of the chassis. Most downward-pointing speakers are least built into the raises edges, in order to bounce sound off tables and desks. But these are flat, which causes them to be both muffled and too quiet. If you have them on a pillow or soft surface, they can become nearly silent.
The purpose I assume is to have them pointed at you when in tent mode, but that doesn’t feel like a worthwhile trade-off.
The sound of the speakers would be decent if they hadn’t been located where they are. What a shame! The Pixelbook Go is still the unabashed winner in audio.
Performance Image used with permission by copyright holder Measuring performance on a Chromebook is tricky. Any Intel Core or AMD Ryzen processor is going to make a laptop like this fly. That held true with the Samsung Galaxy Chromebook 2, which had the Intel Core i3-10110U processor, 8GB of RAM , and a 128GB SSD. This is the more expensive configuration, which costs $699. The starting Celeron-powered configuration is not the one you want, especially since it comes with only 64GB of eMMC storage.
You can’t configure the Pixelbook Go quite exactly the same, but aside from storage, the Pixelbook Go is $50 cheaper. I’ll call it a wash in value.
Both use a dual-core processor — the Pixelbook Go with the 8th-gen Core m3 and the Galaxy Chromebook 2 with the 10th-gen Core i3. Neither are the newest chips that can show up in a Chromebook. Intel announced 11th-gen processors for Chromebooks at CES that feature the improved 10nm architecture and Intel Iris Xe integrated graphics.
When they eventually make it into the first Chromebooks, you can expect a more meaningful jump in gaming performance and creative tasks. The measly Intel UHD integrated graphics here are barely enough to play some of the more intense 3D Android games like Asphalt 9: Legends.
Like working with dozens of tabs open at once? Not a problem.
But despite only having two cores and four threads, the Samsung Galaxy Chromebook 2 feels snappy and responsive. I tested this further using Speedometer 2.0, which measures how fast the system can reload a JavaScript application. With a score of 118 runs per minute, the Galaxy Chromebook 2 won’t slow down any of the web apps or Android apps you depend on.
Like working with dozens of tabs open, including streaming audio and video all at once? Not a problem. That likely won’t have been true of the Intel Celeron model, which doesn’t have quite the multitasking ability. I ran the Galaxy Chromebook 2 through the Android version of Geekbench 5, which scored the system 1,003 in single-core and 2,179 in multi-core. The quad-core options in either the Pixelbook Go or Asus Chromebook Flip C436 will beat it, but it fares well against similarly-priced configurations.
Battery life Battery life is arguably the most important test for Chromebooks. It’s often one of their greatest strengths over similarly-priced Windows notebooks. That was a problem from the original Samsung Galaxy Chromebook, and it hasn’t completely been solved in the second generation.
Samsung promises 13 hours of battery life, which isn’t all that ambitious to begin with. The M1 MacBook Pro promises 17 hours of web browsing and 20 hours of video playback.
Image used with permission by copyright holder It does have a 45-watt battery life, which is marginally larger than last year’s. But the results didn’t blow me away. It lasted just under 9 and a half hours in light web browsing and just 13 hours in local video playback. It was a couple hours behind both the Pixelbook Go.
 It was neck-and-neck with the Asus Chromebook Flip C436 in video loop, but was an hour behind in web browsing.
Still, the Galaxy Chromebook 2 will last you through the majority of a workday, and ultimately that’ll be enough for most people.
Our take The Galaxy Chromebook 2 isn’t a better laptop than its predecessor. However, it is a better Chromebook. It fits the mold of what people are looking for in a Chromebook, and is finally affordable enough to recommend.
But missing some of the distinctive features of the original, the Galaxy Chromebook 2 ends up much less interesting than it once was. However, the QLED screen is a stand-out, performance is great, and it’s an undeniably attractive design.
Are there any alternatives? Google’s Pixelbook Go is the main alternative to the Galaxy Chromebook 2. It has longer battery life, a 1080p webcam, better speakers, and is more portable. It’s the better option for most people, and even costs $50 less when similarly configured.
The Asus Chromebook Flip C436 starts at $523, meanwhile, and comes with a larger 14-inch screen, smaller bezels, and better port selection.
How long will it last? These days, you can expect a Chromebook to last a few more years than a Mac or Windows laptop. The Samsung Galaxy Chromebook 2 comes with a standard one-year warranty.
Should you buy it? Yes, especially if you love the design and color of this laptop. I could see someone picking up the $550 base configuration as a light computer for web browsing and the occasional Zoom call. The Pixelbook Go has better battery life and a few higher-end features, but the Galaxy Chromebook 2 is one of the better Chromebooks to come out in the past year.
Editors' Recommendations The best 2-in-1 laptops in 2023 The Galaxy Book 3 Ultra is Samsung’s most powerful laptop ever Best Samsung Galaxy deals for January 2023 The best Samsung Galaxy Tab S8 Ultra keyboard cases for 2022 Acer Chromebook Spin 514 (2022) hands-on review: Warp speed Chromebooks Google Chrome Laptop Reviews Laptops Product Reviews Samsung Computing Samsung's student-first Galaxy Chromebook 2 360 is now available for purchase. The latest entry to the Galaxy Chromebook family packs a high resolution 16:10 aspect ratio display, as well as all-day battery life, and features like a spill-resistant keyboard with larger keycaps and a touchpad.
Pricing on the Galaxy Chromebook 2 360 starts at $430. Models include an Intel Celeron N45000 processor under the hood, with either 4GB of RAM and 64GB or 128GB of eMMC storage.
Computing Samsung revealed its new Galaxy Book 2 models at Mobile World Congress earlier this year, and it has now announced that pre-orders for the devices have opened. Yet in an interesting offer that might be hard to resist, all pre-orders for the Galaxy Book 2 Pro 360, Galaxy Book 2 Pro, and Galaxy Book 2 360 that are purchased through Samsung.com will also come with a free gaming monitor.
When you pre-order the Galaxy Book 2 Pro 360, which is the flagship 2-in-1 model, you get a free 32 inch Odyssey Gaming Curved Monitor, which is worth $330. The traditional laptop, the Galaxy Book 2 Pro, meanwhile, comes with the same monitor if you pre-order. Finally, pre-orders for the Galaxy Book 2 360 come with a free 24-inch CRG5 Gaming Monitor, which is worth $260.
Computing Samsung is best known for phones and televisions, yet on the computing side, it often takes some of the lessons learned from those products to create amazing laptops. We already liked the original Galaxy Book Pro 360 for some of those reasons, and now the new Galaxy Book 2 Pro 360 is arriving as a follow-up.
I got to try one out ahead of Mobile World Congress, and the question was whether Samsung could take its beautiful OLED displays, as well as some synergies from the Galaxy phone and tablet lineups, and combine it into what could be another winning laptop for multimedia consumption. Let's find out the answer.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
