Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best gaming PCs for 2023: Dell, Origin, Lenovo, and more By Jacob Roach Close You don't need to build your own computer to get the best gaming PC. While that still provides the best value, brands like Lenovo, Alienware, Acer, and Origin have gotten fiercely competitive in the past few years, and these companies are producing some of the best gaming desktops you can buy.
Our top pick is Lenovo's Legion Tower 7i Gen 8. It comes with the latest CPU and GPU options from Intel and Nvidia, and it's reasonably priced, especially considering its excellent thermal management. Plus, we have over half a dozen other picks for different budgets and gaming needs that we identified through our extensive collection of desktop reviews.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
More Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Lenovo Legion Tower 7i The best gaming PC you can buy Flagship 4K gaming performance Support for DLSS 3 Fully upgradable Sleek, attractive design RAM runs at slower speed McAfee continues to annoy Why you should buy this: It's a reasonably priced gaming PC with flagship hardware, and it's fully open for upgrades.
Who it's for: PC gamers who want a high-end experience in 2023 and the possibility to upgrade in the future.
What we thought of the Lenovo Legion Tower 7i: The Lenovo Legion Tower 7i is proof that buying a prebuilt gaming desktop doesn't have to mean sacrificing quality. It packs in Nvidia's RTX 4080 along with an Intel Core i7-13700KF processor, offering some of the fastest hardware you can buy today, and it performs as well as its spec sheet would suggest.
In our review, we found that the Lenovo Legion Tower 7i was a hair faster than a custom PC with the same components, so you're not leaving any performance on the table by going prebuilt. You're free to swap out components, too. Unlike desktops from Alienware and some other vendors, the Tower 7i uses standard-sized parts so you can swap out whatever you want.
That's all great, but the real reason we're recommending the Tower 7i is its price. The configuration we reviewed, which comes with an RTX 4080 and Intel Core i7-13700KF, runs $2,900. That's expensive, but it's only a few hundred dollars more than if you bought all the parts yourself and pieced them together on your own. And for that upcharge, you're getting a year of Lenovo's Legion Ultimate support, which includes next-business-day repair, as well as a 24/7 support contact.
Since our review, Lenovo has released some cheaper models as well. You can now get the machine for around $2,050 with an Intel Core i7-13700KF and RTX 4070 Ti GPU.
It's easy to recommend the Lenovo Legion Tower 7i in 2023, but it still has one problem. Lenovo advertised 5,200 megatransfer per second (MT/s) memory, but it's only set up to run at 4,400 MT/s out of the box. That can lead to lower performance in some select applications, but thankfully, you can crank up the memory speed in a couple of clicks.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Origin Neuron The best custom gaming PC Excellent cable management and design Minimal bloatware Lifetime 24/7 support Great CPU, GPU, and motherboard options Easy to upgrade Expensive Few non-Corsair part options Limited front panel ports Why you should buy this: The Origin Neuron comes with excellent build quality and highly customizable components.
Who's it for: Gamers looking to customize their own PC without getting into building.
What we thought of the Origin Neuron: There's no shortage of PC builders that use components you can buy and put together yourself, but Origin still manages to stand out. You can buy and build an exact replica of the Origin Neuron, but Origin's careful attention to detail, deep customization options, and excellent support make an argument not to.
Corsair owns Origin, so the Neuron comes fitted with Corsair components across the board. That's a good thing in this case, as Corsair makes some of the best PC fans , power supplies, and RAM modules you can buy. All of these first-party components give the Neuron a cohesive feel, free of software conflicts that could mess up your RGB lighting.
You can build the machine exactly how you want, too. Origin offers the latest CPUs from AMD and Intel, as well as the latest GPUs from Nvidia and AMD.
 Beyond that, you can tweak everything else — power supply rating, memory speed, you name it.
The Neuron is more expensive than a mainstream PC like the Omen 45L. That extra money buys you better build quality, more flexibility, and some modern furnishings. Out of all of the custom PC builds you can buy, the Origin Neuron is our favorite.
Alienware Alienware Aurora R16 The best Alienware gaming PC Much cheaper than previous models Up to an RTX 4070 Ti GPU Very compact Upgrades are tough No room for additional fans Why you should buy this: It's an Alienware gaming PC built for the everyday gamer Who's it for: PC gamers who want a lot of flexibility in their build and don't need to service their PC.
What we thought of the Alienware Aurora R16: Alienware has a reputation problem, but the new Aurora R16 attempts to fix that. It's the first time Alienware has abandoned the angular Aurora design we've seen for the past several generations, instead relying on a smaller mid-tower chassis that's just as powerful, but takes up a lot less space.
It comes in cheaper, as well. Part of the reason Alienware desktops have a bit of a bad name is their price, but the Aurora R16 starts at just $1,300 for an Intel Core i7-13700F, RTX 4060 graphics card, 16GB of DDR5 memory, and a 1TB SSD. You can scale that up with the same processor, memory, and storage, but with an RTX 4070 Ti , for $1,950.
Alienware upgraded the internals a lot, but it's the exterior of this machine that stands out. It's around half the size of the previous version, all without compromising power or thermals. By the end of the year, Alienware says it will be its fastest desktop ever, packing up to an RTX 4090.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Acer Predator Orion 7000 The best high-end gaming PC Runs cool and quiet Bright, vibrant RGB lighting Excellent 4K gaming performance Great connectivity options Hot-swappable SSD bay Expensive Upgrades could be frustrating Loads of bloatware Why you should buy this: It's a fantastic and upgradeable high-end desktop that will hold up for years.
Who's it for: Enthusiasts that want a great starting point to upgrade their gaming PC in the future.
What we thought of the Acer Predator Orion 7000: The Acer Predator Orion 7000 is a gaming PC in every sense of the phrase. Its design screams that with bright RGB fans and an aggressive design that makes it clear this is a machine built for gaming. Thankfully, it has the performance and thermals to back up its clear design influence.
It packs last-gen components, but they're still powerful. You can score up to an Intel Core i9-12900K and RTX 3090 graphics card, and we expect a next-gen upgrade soon. Acer just recently updated its Predator laptops , so a desktop makeover should come soon.
Even this model holds up well in 2023, though. The components are still very powerful, and the design of the case makes quick work of all the heat these high-end components can spit out.
More Image used with permission by copyright holder Intel NUC 12 Enthusiast The best mini gaming PC Excellent 1080p gaming performance Laptop CPU matches desktop performance Small and relatively quiet Fantastic connectivity Expensive Large, clunky power brick Why you should buy this: It's smaller than a book and comes with enough power to run the latest games at 1080p.
Who's it for: Gamers who need a tiny PC that packs a lot of punch.
What we thought of the Intel NUC 12 Enthusiast: Intel's NUC PCs have always been focused on performance in the smallest size possible, but the NUC 12 Enthusiast reaches even further. Powered by mobile Intel Arc Alchemist graphics , the machine can run the latest games at 1080p, and it's smaller than the size of a book.
It's not a stretch to say that the NUC 12 Enthusiast makes you forget you're using a mini PC. It puts up desktop-like performance in a package smaller than some laptops, and it comes with all the trimmings you'd expect out of a full-size rig. That includes expansive connections, including USB-C, Thunderbolt, and plenty of USB 3 ports.
The included stand is great, too. You can sit the NUC 12 Enthusiast upright on your desktop, but you can also pop it off the stand and lay it down on its side. And if you're looking to maximize space, you can even mount the stand to a wall and hide the PC behind your monitor.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Falcon Northwest Tiki The best gaming PC for the living room Blazing 4K gaming performance Fantastic thermal design Top-notch build quality Accessible upgrades Standard three-year warranty Limited fan noise Limited Intel configurations Why you should buy this: It's smaller than a gaming console and packs high-end PC hardware.
Who's it for: Living room gamers looking for a high-end gaming PC that doesn't take up a lot of space.
What we thought of the Falcon Northwest Tiki: The Falcon Northwest Tiki is the perfect small-form-factor gaming PC. Just like the Talon, the Tiki stands out with exceptional build quality, clear attention to detail, and support that puts major PC manufacturers to shame. It's expensive, but Falcon Northwest makes every penny feel worth it.
For size, the Tiki is the smallest gaming PC you can buy fully configured. But Falcon Northwest doesn't sacrifice performance in the process. You can cram in up to a 16-core Ryzen 9 5950X as well as a full, fat RTX 3090. You can also add up to 8TB of NVMe storage, which is insane considering the Tiki's size.
Usually, a smaller size comes at the cost of thermals and noise, but not with the Tiki. It manages to stay cooler and quieter than many mid-sized desktops (read our Asus ProArt PD5 review for an example of bad thermals on a desktop).
Falcon Northwest is one of the few boutique PC builders left, and the Tiki is a perfect showcase for what that model can achieve. It's an exception PC overall, and it's even more impressive considering it's smaller than a PlayStation 5.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Dell XPS Desktop (8960) The gaming PC for remote workers Flagship performance Understated, attractive design Relatively quiet Solid port selection Limited upgrade potential Expensive Why you should buy this: The Dell XPS Desktop 8650 doesn't look like a gaming PC, but it comes with the right hardware to run the latest titles.
Who's it for: Remote workers who need a professional PC during the day and a gaming PC at night.
What we thought of the Dell XPS Desktop 8960: If you want to pick up a gaming desktop, but you're not interested in learning about upgrading or tricking it out with RGB, the Dell XPS 8960 Desktop is a great option. It's a stealth gaming PC that looks like an office desktop on the outside, but hides some of the most powerful components you can buy inside.
You can't upgrade major components in the Dell XPS Desktop, which is almost always a downside. But you can at least trick out this PC with up to an Intel Core i9-13900 and Nvidia RTX 4080. You can even configure it with liquid cooling.
Configurations start as low as $750, with the first configuration with a discrete graphics card coming in at around $1,100. You're giving up all of the trimmings that make a gaming PC look like one, but if you're content to recycle your PC and upgrade a few years down the line, that's not a big deal.
Although the XPS Desktop can fit into any office setting, we're recommending it specifically for remote workers. You might not want to ask your boss to bill an RGB-ridden gaming behemoth; the XPS Desktop is much more reasonable, and it still has enough muscle for gaming after hours.
Image used with permission by copyright holder NZXT Streaming Plus BLD Kit The best DIY gaming desktop Powerful Inexpensive Includes all the tools you need to build your own PC PC building isn't for everyone Limited customization options Why we chose this: The NZXT BLD Kit allows you to dip your toes into building a custom gaming PC and save some money in the process.
Who's it for: Hobbyists who want to get into building PCs but don't know where to start.
What we thought of the NZXT BLD Kit: NZXT has a different approach to gaming desktops. Instead of shipping you a prebuilt machine, you get all of the components, tools, and an instruction manual to build the PC yourself. And don't worry - you get all of that at a discount compared to getting a machine already built for you.
The BLD kits offer great value, and NZXT has several available. We're recommending the Streaming Plus kit, which comes fitted with an eight-core Ryzen 7 5700X processor, an Nvidia RTX 3070 graphics card, and 16GB of RAM. Overall, the kit is about $200 than shopping for the cheapest parts yourself, rather than the anywhere from $500 to $1,000 that brands usually charge as a building fee.
If you can't be bothered, NZXT also offers its custom BLD program. Unlike most system builders, NZXT charges a flat $110 building fee. Otherwise, you're paying the exact same price for the components that you would if you bought them individually.
PC building isn't for everyone, but NZXT's BLD program offers a cost-effective and simple way to get into the hobby.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends MSI Aegis RS 12 The best gaming PC for beginners Cheaper than building yourself All MSI components Dense, bright RGB lighting Excellent gaming and processor performance Fantastic connectivity and expansion options Poor cable management Twist ties used for some cables Case isn't the best Why we chose this: It's a no-fuss, powerful gaming PC that won't break the bank.
Who's it for: PC gamers who want a powerful PC and don't need to mess around with upgrades.
What we thought of the MSI Aegis RS 12: The MSI Aegis RS 12 is a perfect gaming PC if you don't need to mess with upgrades. You can upgrade it, but its poor cable management and lack of a case don't lend themselves well to DIY tweaks. Thankfully, you don't need to make them. There's a lot of power under the hood of the Aegis, and at a reasonable price.
The last time we looked at the machine, it was sporting Intel's 12th-gen processors, but MSI has recently updated it with Intel 13th-gen CPUs and Nvidia RTX 40-series GPUs. You can pack in up to an Intel Core i7-13700KF and Nvidia RTX 4080 , along with 32GB of RAM.
What's surprising is the price. That configuration could easily run $4,000 or more with other brands, but MSI charges around $3,000 - near the same price as building your own. If you jump down to an RTX 4070 Ti , you can save almost $1,000, too.
On top of that, MSI includes a sold gaming keyboard and mouse in the box. They aren't top-tier peripherals, but they're more than enough to get beginners started with PC gaming.
Frequently Asked Questions While you can play on the go with a gaming laptop outfitted with a discrete graphics card, a gaming desktop will deliver more flexibility, power, and performance for serious gamers. With more space inside a desktop tower, thermal management is generally better, which leads to stronger graphics and processing performance without the fear of throttling.
Another benefit of going with a desktop is that there is more space to perform upgrades in the future, so you can add more memory or storage, swap out your graphics card, and upgrade your motherboard and processor down the road. When shopping for a gaming desktop, you should look for key features like upgradability, expandability, and support for the latest protocols, like Thunderbolt 3, which could help extend the life of your investment.
The best gaming PC for beginners is the HP Omen 30L or 45L. These two machines live in the same family, and the 30L is slightly smaller than the 45L. We recommend them for beginners because they come with the latest, most powerful components, they're readily available, and they're easy to upgrade.
For configurations, you want to pay attention to the GPU and CPU. For beginners, we recommend the Nvidia RTX 3060 for 1080p gameplay, paired with either an AMD Ryzen 5 5600X or Intel Core i5-12600K.
Gamers will also want to have enough RAM — we suggest at least 16GB of memory — and fast storage. Moreover, taking the dual-drive route means you don't need to invest in an expensive solid-state drive with large storage. This allows you to pair a more modest-capacity SSD with a larger hard drive to store all the large media libraries for your game.
Most definitely. Manufacturers like HP recognize that gamers don't just play games — office workers want to stay entertained during their downtime, too. All that's needed to play games is a capable processor, a strong enough discrete graphics card, and enough memory to keep the entire system running smoothly.
If you're looking to save money by using one desktop for gaming and for your productivity tasks, you'll want to choose a PC or one of the best laptops with more understated aesthetics that will blend in better with your office decor. Once you have the right PC selected, just pick out a few games and have fun.
Absolutely not. With sales of general-purpose desktops stagnating in recent years, manufacturers like HP and Lenovo are investing more resources into their gaming brands to fuel growth.
With new hardware features supported on gaming PCs — from VR and augmented reality to real-time ray tracing — developers will have plenty of new technologies to leverage in order to tell visually engaging stories through their games.
Editors' Recommendations The best handheld gaming PCs you can buy Best Chromebook Black Friday deals on HP, Lenovo, and more The best Lenovo gaming laptop Black Friday deals right now Best Alienware gaming laptop Black Friday deals — save $800 Razer Black Friday deals: Save on gaming laptops, keyboards and more Gaming Best Products Dell Laptops Computing Gamers who don't want this year's Black Friday deals to end without buying a powerful gaming laptop for much cheaper than usual should check out the offers that were launched by Razer. One of the most popular gaming brands, it doesn't disappoint with its high-performance and stylish machines. We've rounded up our top picks for Razer gaming laptop Black Friday deals below, including our absolute favorite, so don't waste any more time -- find the model that you want and proceed with the purchase, while the discounts are still online. If gaming isn't your sole focus, you'll find other powerful laptops in our list of the best Black Friday laptop deals.
Best Razer gaming laptop Black Friday deal The top-of-the-line performance provided by the Razer Blade 15 actually makes it a steal at its discounted price, as it's the only machine that you'll need for the next few years if you're looking forward to some upcoming PC games. Inside the gaming laptop are the 12th-generation Intel Core i7 processor, Nvidia GeForce RTX 3070 Ti graphics card, and 16GB of RAM, which are enough to run today's most popular titles at the highest settings. Its 15.6-inch screen with QHD resolution and a 240Hz refresh rate will give justice to all that power, and you'll be able to install several AAA games on its 1TB SSD that ships with Windows 11 Home. Originally $3,000, the Razer Blade 15 is down to $1,800 following a $1,200 discount from Razer for Black Friday.
Computing If you've wanted to upgrade your gaming PC but missed out on the previous sales during Prime Day, then you're absolutely in luck. With Black Friday deals taking place all over November now, we're starting to see many excellent deals on gaming PCs, whether you're going for an AMD-based setup or an Intel-based one. To that end, we've collected some of our favorite deals and sectioned them off into AMD and Intel so you can pick the brand you prefer.
These include some crossover sales with Dell Black Friday deals and Alienware Black Friday deals, since the latter is sold by the former. We've also trawled through Best Buy Black Friday deals for the best gaming deals. If you want something more mobile, check out the best Black Friday gaming laptop deals.
Best Gaming PC Black Friday Deals (AMD) Computing There's no need to wait for Black Friday deals because retailers like Dell have already rolled out some of their offers for the shopping holiday. Whether you're planning to buy a new laptop, monitor, or desktop computer, Dell surely has something that will fit your budget. We've rounded up the best Dell Black Friday deals that you can shop right now to help you decide quickly on your purchases, since you need to hurry to make sure that you're able to take advantage of the bargains. Like HP laptop Black Friday deals and Amazon Black Friday laptop deals, these discounts could end at any time. Any of these prices may return to normal at any moment, so act fast.
Top 3 Dell Black Friday deals Dell S2721QS 4K monitor -- $240, was $330 If you're looking for monitor deals to upgrade an outdated display, you should consider the Dell S2721QS 4K monitor. You'll be getting sharp details and vivid colors on its 27-inch screen with 4K Ultra HD resolution, and you'll also experience less stuttering and screen tearing with AMD's FreeSync technology. Your neck and eyes will stay comfortable with the help of the monitor's height-adjustable stand and Dell's ComfortView Plus that reduces harmful blue light emissions.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
