Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? What is Thunderbolt, and is it different from USB-C? By Anita George Close Thunderbolt is a type of hardware interface technology that is used to connect various devices to a PC. You’ve probably already encountered Thunderbolt in the form of its distinctive ports and cables — the latest generations use the USB-C connector. That’s the quick definition. But if you’re here, you’re probably looking for a more thorough description of what Thunderbolt is, and why it differs from USB-C.
Thunderbolt 3 vs. Thunderbolt 4 Is Thunderbolt the same as USB-C? Do Thunderbolt and Thunderbolt 2 accessories work with Thunderbolt 3? How do I know if I have a Thunderbolt port? When will Thunderbolt 5 launch? In this guide, that’s exactly what you’ll get: We’ll go over some of its current iterations and how they compare, how Thunderbolt is different from USB-C, how to identify Thunderbolt ports, and find out the latest on when Thunderbolt 5 will launch.
Thunderbolt 3 vs. Thunderbolt 4 Bill Roberson/Digital Trends Since Thunderbolt was introduced in 2011, there have been a number of different versions of it. But these days, if you’re shopping for a device that features Thunderbolt ’s use, you’re probably looking at Thunderbolt 3 and Thunderbolt 4.
Best HP laptop deals: Get a Windows laptop for $199 The best MacBook to buy in 2023 Thunderbolt 5 may help bring back external GPUs, Intel says Introduced in 2015, Thunderbolt 3 features a USB-C connector, a max transfer speed of 40GB/s, and up to 15W of power for running accessories. It can also support one 4K display and is compatible with USB4 specification.
Launched in 2020, Thunderbolt 4 is the latest version of its connection technology that’s currently available. Thunderbolt 4 still has the same max transfer speed as Thunderbolt 3: 40Gb/s, but it mandates that as the minimum, whereas for Thunderbolt 3, it’s not enforced. Like Thunderbolt 3, Thunderbolt 4 also has a USB-C connector and offers up to 15W power delivery for accessories. They both offer Thunderbolt Networking as well. But that’s where the similarities between the two pretty much end.
Unlike Thunderbolt 3, Thunderbolt 4 can support two 4K displays and is rated as “compliant” for USB4 specification.
Thunderbolt 4 also has double the PCIe SSD bandwidth speed (32 Gb/s) of Thunderbolt 3 (16 Gb/s).
Is Thunderbolt the same as USB-C? Dan Baker/Digital Trends No. Though Thunderbolt has recently incorporated the use of USB-C connectors, they’re still different connection technologies. So just because Thunderbolt 3 and 4 ports are designed for use with USB-C connectors, not all USB-C ports are designed to support Thunderbolt.
Do Thunderbolt and Thunderbolt 2 accessories work with Thunderbolt 3? Image used with permission by copyright holder They can, but not without help. Thunderbolt 3’s USB-C connection isn’t compatible with devices based on Thunderbolt or Thunderbolt 2 without an expensive adapter.
How do I know if I have a Thunderbolt port? There are two main ways to know: You can either see if there is a thunderbolt icon next to your device’s USB-C port or you can check your device’s tech specs online to see if it mentions Thunderbolt ports in the product description.
Additionally, Intel suggests downloading its Intel Driver & Support Assistant , which can be used to show you what kind of ports your device has, provided that your device uses Intel products and is running a supported version of Windows.
When will Thunderbolt 5 launch? The exact launch date for Thunderbolt 5 has not been announced yet.
Thunderbolt 5 is expected to be Thunderbolt 4’s successor but since Thunderbolt 4 was only released in 2020, it’s unlikely that Thunderbolt 5 will be available anytime soon. For now, we just know that it’s in development. We’ll update this section once we know more.
Editors' Recommendations Best Black Friday laptop deals: Get a new workhorse from $129 Best gaming laptop deals: Game on the go from just $550 What is Thunderbolt 5? What is a CPU? Here’s everything you need to know Thunderbolt 4: everything you need to know Apple Apple Intel Laptops Computing Heading off to college is an exciting and momentous occasion in anyone's life. It can also be incredibly expensive. We're not just talking about school fees but having to pay for accommodation and all the other things you need to own while you're stepping out into the world for the first time. One thing you'll need is a great laptop. Fortunately, there are some excellent laptop deals around which means you won't have to worry about spending too much on the pleasure of being able to type up your reports and notes without any hassle. With so many options around, we've picked out some of the very best student laptop deals available so you know exactly what to buy. We've included laptops and Chromebooks of varying price ranges so there's something for every budget and need here.
IdeaPad Slim 3 Chromebook — $179, was $319 Fitting in as one of the best Chromebooks for students, the IdeaPad Slim 3 Chromebook runs on 4 GB of memory and a MediaTek Kompanio processor. The 14-inch FHD screen has a 100% sRGB color gamut and sides of the keyboard contain speakers, making it a serviceable video lecture companion. The IdeaPad Slim 3's WiFi 6 allows for quick downloads and a solid internet connection. This, combined with the laptop's 13-hour battery life, solidify it as the perfect laptop to throw in your bag and take notes with at class. You can still watch (purely educational, of course) YouTube videos, but the machine isn't designed to be overly distracting.
Computing You can charge your laptop with USB-C and many laptops are built with it as their only option for charging. You'll need a high-wattage charger to power it up in a reasonable time, but thanks to the latest generations of USB Power Delivery technology, you can absolutely charge your laptop with a USB-C connection.
You don't even need one of the best laptops to charge using USB-C. Most modern laptops have the option. That's great, too, because USB-C is reversible, handles data and charging simultaneously, and can even let you output to a display while charging your laptop from the same USB-C cable. Here's how to do it.
How to charge your laptop with USB-C Computing Whether you’re loyal to Windows, a Mac fan, or willing to try something new, you should know what to look for in a laptop before making an investment. There's more to consider than just the operating system. Does it have the screen you want? Are there ports that support your peripherals? Can it play games at 1080p – or higher? These are among the many considerations you need to weigh.
In this guide, we explain what you should look for in 2023, and what you need to avoid. Many options are available to you for both Windows 11 and Chrome OS, whereas Apple limits its MacBooks to a more limited number of configurations. Continue reading to find out which laptop is right for you, and be sure to check out our list of best laptop brands before you get started.
Mac, Windows, or something else? The operating system should be your first major consideration. While that debate was once dominated by Apple's macOS and Microsoft's Windows, Google's Chrome OS is now a very popular alternative typically offered on much more affordable laptops.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
