Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing News Acer’s new gaming laptop bring Nvidia RTX 40-series GPUs under $1,000 By Monica J. White Close Acer You can find Nvidia’s RTX 40-series graphics cards in some of the best gaming laptops , but the downside is that they’re all expensive, if not overpriced. Previously, that meant you’d be forced to choose between getting something affordable or getting access to Nvidia’s GPU cheat code — DLSS 3.
 Now, there’s finally some hope on the horizon, as Acer is launching a budget-friendly laptop that can still run modern games. We’re talking about the Acer Nitro V 15.
The new laptop will be available in a few different configurations, each equipped with Intel’s latest 13th-Gen CPUs, including either Core i5 or Core i7 models. All of them also come with a 15.6-inch 144Hz display. While every configuration also features a Nvidia graphics card , not all of those GPUs are equally thrilling. The cheapest model, priced at $700, features a Core i5-13420H CPU and an RTX 2050 GPU. This comes paired with just 8GB of RAM and a 512GB SSD.
As we move up the list, the specs get better and better. There’s a model with the last-gen RTX 3050, priced at $770, that’s otherwise the same as the 2050 version. However, it’s the top configuration that’s really interesting. At $1,000, you’re getting an Intel Core i7-13620H CPU, an Nvidia RTX 4050 graphics card , 16GB RAM , and a 1TB SSD. Storage and RAM can be boosted up to 2TB and 32GB, respectively.
I tested Nvidia’s new RTX feature, and it fixed the worst part of PC gaming Nvidia RTX 40-series graphics cards: news, performance, and more 3 reasons why you should buy a gaming laptop in 2023 While an RTX 4050, on its own, may not sound that exciting, it’s more than just the sum of its parts. Nvidia’s DLSS 3 has been proven to help these lower-powered GPUs handle games that are perhaps a little above their pay grade, and we expect this to be the case here too. Sure, this $1,000 laptop won’t breeze through the most demanding AAA games ever, but DLSS 3 just might give it the boost that it needs to be capable.
Acer Acer has also ensured that the Nitro V 15 gets proper cooling, which is crucial even with low-end RTX 40-series GPUs. The laptop comes with a dual fan and exhaust system. There are also plenty of ports, with three USB Type-A ports, one combo USB-C/ Thunderbolt 4 port, an HDMI port, a 3.5mm audio jack, a Kensington lock, an Ethernet port, and a DC-in jack.
As shared by TechRadar , there will be six configurations available at launch, but they won’t all be up for sale at the same retailers. Most of them will be sold directly by Acer, but two configurations will appear at Costco and Newegg. It’s always refreshing to see affordable gaming hardware, so let’s hope these laptops will become widely available soon enough.
Editors' Recommendations Don’t wait for new GPUs. It’s safe to buy a gaming laptop now Acer’s new gaming laptops feature mini-LED, 3D displays, and affordable prices Here’s what kind of gaming laptop $1,000 will buy you this year We now know the eye-watering price of Nvidia’s RTX 4090 gaming laptops Nvidia brings the mighty RTX 4090 to laptops at CES 2023 News Acer Laptops Tech News Computing If you're shopping for a gaming laptop under $1,000, you know what to expect. An RTX 3050 or 3050 Ti in a very thick chassis. Well, that's where this Cyber Monday deal from Best Buy exceeds my expectations for what gaming laptops at this price can be.
The deal is for an Asus TUF Dash, which normally sells for $1,500. Thanks to a discount of $500, though, this powerful gaming laptop now lands just under $1,000. That's an incredible value, considering it packs an RTX 3070 inside. And that GPU really does make all the difference in game performance.
Computing Say it with me: "Building a gaming PC is getting more expensive." Price is top of mind when building a gaming PC in 2022, and why wouldn't it be? Today, the best graphics cards will cost you well over $1,000, DDR5 is ungodly expensive, and CPU prices are double or even triple what they were a decade ago.
It's easy to add up the numbers and come to a conclusion, but that ignores game optimizations, falling prices of other components, and the various upscaling tools players have to squeeze extra performance out of their PCs. Instead of adding up what you could spend on a gaming PC, I added up what you would spend.
Computing Nvidia’s 40-series GPUs launched recently, and to say they’ve made waves in the computing world would be a serious understatement. These cards are big, powerful, and outrageously expensive. Yet if you want the most absurd performance cards you can get your mitts on, they’re second to none.
But with all that said, there’s absolutely no way I’ll be buying one. In fact, I wouldn’t touch one with a bargepole -- and there are plenty of reasons why.
Little meets large Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
