Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Features Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? This is the best Alienware gaming PC you can buy By Kunal Khullar Close Alienware Alienware has a distinct style that certainly attracts potential buyers all on its own. But if you’ve already decided on Alienware as a brand for your next gaming PC , that makes the choice fairly simple, as Alienware has cleaned up its lineup quite a bit and now sells only the Aurora R16 and R15.
The newer offering, the Aurora R16 , which was launched earlier this year, is our pick of the best Alienware gaming PC that you should buy today.
One of the biggest reasons for choosing the Aurora R16 is the redesigned chassis. It isn’t as flashy as the previous-generation models, but that is actually a good thing. Gone are the large plastic bits covering the entire frame, making for a cleaner and more refined look. It is also way more compact, without compromising on the components that go inside. It looks and feels a lot like a regular gaming desktop , which should appeal more to the masses. The chassis is 8 inches deep, 16.5 inches tall, and about 8 inches wide, while the large air intake on the front is surrounded by Alienware’s Stadium Lighting, which looks like a neat light bar. Other RGB elements include the Alienware logo power button and the rear exhaust fan.
You can finally purge your PC of default Windows apps YouTuber claims that this ugly 3D-printed mouse is actually the best for gaming This Noctua-themed gaming PC is a bespoke beauty — and you can buy it The side panel is made out of acrylic instead of tempered glass and offers a clear view of the internals. Notably, the bottom half of the side panel is tinted. By doing this, the company has managed to hide all the cable mess below. The lower portion of the side panel also includes a honeycomb pattern with mesh perforations, allowing the system (especially the GPU) to pull in fresh air. Even the top has ventilation, something that the previous models struggled with. Alienware also offers the desktop with an air-cooled CPU and a solid side panel, if that’s something you prefer.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends The Aurora R16 represents more than just a substantial design shift for Alienware; it also introduces a reduction in price. The starting configuration is priced at $1,300, offering an Intel Core i7-13700F, an RTX 4060, 16GB of DDR5 RAM , and a 1TB NVMe SSD. However, the options for customization are extensive. At the high end, you can elevate your experience with an Intel Core i9-13900F, Nvidia RTX 4090 , 64GB of DDR5-5200 RAM , and an 8TB storage solution for $4,980.
While there are multiple configurations to choose from, we recommend going for an Intel Core i7-13700F, RTX 4070, 32GB of DDR5-5600, and 1TB of NVMe storage, paired with a 1,000-watt PSU, 240mm all-in-one liquid cooler, and a clear side panel. The configuration should cost around $1,750, which is a very competitive price compared to the Lenovo Legion Tower 5i.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Getting to the internals is a lot simpler too. There’s now a single screw on the back and a tab that easily pops off the side panel. You still get a proprietary Alienware motherboard, along with a thin power supply, making them non-user upgradable. One can, however, swap or add more storage using the two M.2 slots, as well as a 2.5-inch SSD or 3.5-inch HDD. Other than that, you can replace the Wi-Fi card and potentially upgrade to a 14th-gen Intel Raptor Lake refresh CPU, since the motherboard comes with an LGA1700 socket.
Depending on the configuration, you can get plenty of performance from the Aurora R16. Having said that, this year Alienware has opted to use non-K Intel CPU models. Not only do they lack the capability of overclocking, but the chips have been tuned slightly lower to ensure better thermals and fan noise. While it may not be a significant concern for gamers, it holds more weight for users seeking a balance between productivity and gaming performance.
During our testing of the Aurora 16, we found that the Core i7-13700F was a little slower than the K model inside the Dell XPS Desktop 8960.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends You can expect excellent gaming results on the Aurora R16. With the above recommended configuration (Intel Core i7-13700F with RTX 4070), the system is capable of handling most games at 4K resolution and ultra graphics settings at 60 frames per second (fps). It even managed to score very close to a custom RTX 4070 desktop with AMD’s Ryzen 9 7950X in 3DMark benchmark tests.
For most gamers, the Alienware Aurora R16 should offer an impeccable gaming experience. Just make sure you choose the right configuration based on your use case. You can still opt for the Aurora R15 with the latest hardware, including the option of unlocked Intel CPUs, but in our experience, the older chassis design is not really worth spending extra money on.
Editors' Recommendations This is the best Dell gaming laptop you can buy This is the best Alienware gaming laptop you can buy I review gaming laptops professionally — these are the only two you should buy in 2023 You can finally use Adobe’s game-changing AI features in Photoshop, Premiere, and After Effects Here’s how you can win this insane, custom Starfield PC Dell Features PC Gaming Computing Alienware's flagship gaming desktop is getting a serious makeover. The new Aurora R16, which is available to purchase now, ditches the angular, obtuse design of Alienware's previous models in favor of a design that feels familiar yet -- if you'll excuse the pun -- alien.
That's clear by looking at an image of the redesigned Aurora R16 above. It's a mid-tower box, much unlike a machine like the Aurora R15, with its massive footprint and large plastic covering that makes it feel much larger than it actually is. the Aurora R16 fits in much better now with the standard crop of gaming desktops, though it still has some unique design choices.
Computing I have over a dozen controllers that I cycle through often. These aren't just relics from past consoles, either; they've all been on a quest to find the one controller that I want to pick up and use. Scuf's Reflex controller has ended that search.
If you're unfamiliar, Scuf has a long history of building premium controllers, but the controller custom shop for the most intense (and well-off) gamers has felt less necessary over the past several years. Xbox has continued to iterate on its Elite Series 2 controller, and although Sony was late to the party, we now have the DualSense Edge pulling its weight as a premium controller for PlayStation fans.
Computing Alienware has a new batch of 27-inch monitors it's releasing, but one of them stands out from the rest: the AW2724HF. It's a 27-inch, 1080p display for $460, but it comes with a 360Hz refresh rate, which could make it one of the best gaming monitors on the market.
The big reason why is that Alienware released its AW2524H just a few months ago. That 1080p display with a 500Hz refresh rate costs almost twice as much as the AW2724HF. Although the difference between 360Hz and 500Hz sounds like a lot for competitive gaming, it's really not.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
