Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing News Dell’s new retro gaming laptops took me straight back to the ’80s — in a good way By Aaron Leong Close As part of its lineup for CES 2023 , Dell is touting a slightly retro new look for its G15 and G16 series of midrange gaming laptops. Apparently, there can never be too much love for the 80s (minus parachute pants, the Cold War, and ugly American cars).
To wit, Dell has decided to gussy up its popular mid-budget G15 (5530) and G16 (7630) gaming laptop lines with unique colorways, such as metallic nightshade (with a black thermal shelf), dark shadow gray or quantum white (with a deep space blue thermal shelf), or — my favorite — pop purple (with a neo mint thermal shelf), among others.
Thankfully, the homage stops there. No large display bezels or 3.5-inch floppy drives, although the G16 does bring us a clackety Cherry mechanical keyboard (with RGB, of course).
That said, the G-series comes in four 13th-gen Intel flavors, up to a Core i9-13900HX , supported by upgradeable x2 SO-DIMM DDR5 (max 32GB), and up to 2TB of NVMe M.2 storage (starts at 256GB). The laptops , of course, will also support Nvidia’s new RTX 40-series GPUs. Based on notes in Dell’s spec sheets, the laptops’ graphics options will range up to an RTX 4070.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Also getting a bump is the screen. For the G15, the previous 120Hz refresh rate 1920 x 1080 LED-backlit (250 nits) unit returns, but there is now a 165Hz refresh rate with TUV-certified low blue light (LBL) 300 nits panel for consumers to choose from.
This midrange HP laptop beats the Dell XPS 15 in one important way CES 2023: 18-inch gaming laptops are back, baby MSI’s next laptop could have a mind-blowingly good display The G16 ‘s regular 165Hz 2560 x 1600 LED-backlit (300 nits) with TUV-certified LBL will have a 240Hz refresh rate version available as well.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Dell is also offering a larger 6-cell 86Wh battery for either G laptop if you want greater endurance over the standard issue 56Wh piece. There’s a decent number of ports around the machines, namely one HDMI 2.1 , three USB-A 3.2, one USB-C 3.2 with DisplayPort alt-mode, one RJ45, and one 3.5mm audio port.
Both the G15 and G16 are expected to go on sale in spring. Prices for the G15 should start at $850, while the G16 starts at $1,500.
Editors' Recommendations This is the best Dell gaming laptop you can buy These are all the new mini-LED gaming laptops announced at CES 2023 The new ROG Zephyrus gaming laptops look like absolute stunners Dell’s new G16 is a larger, more powerful budget gaming laptop New Asus ROG Zephyrus G14 gaming laptop goes all-in on AMD CES 2023 Dell Laptops Tech News Computing Alienware is refreshing two of its most popular gaming laptops for the new year, the m15 and m17. Both the Alienware m15 and m17 now come with options for Nvidia's next-generation 30-series graphics cards, and the m17 R4 even has a new 360Hz refresh rate display, too. More importantly, it's one of the only laptops to include support for HDMI 2.1, the same standard that new consoles and televisions have adapted.
In addition, Alienware also is introducing a special Ryzen Edition of its Aurora gaming desktop, complete with AMD's 5000 series CPUs and up to a 16-core processor.
Alienware m15 R4 and m17 R4 Deals Major retailers aren’t about to hand over all the shopping traffic to Amazon, just because it’s Prime Day. For instance, Newegg is embarking on the second round of its Fantastech Sale (between us though, this is pretty much a Prime Day deal, just by another name). Which is great news if you’re a gamer. Right now, you can get a whopping $400 discount on an Asus ROG Strix G 15.6 gaming Laptop. It’s only $900, down from its original price of $1,300. Game on! What’s on offer is a powerful, versatile, upgradeable gaming laptop. ROG, one of the dominant names in the es-ports business, introduced the Strix to help gamers dominate in their field. This is a reliably kickass machine for every kind of gamer. And it looks great too.
Computing Digital Trends has tested hundreds of gaming laptops over the years. Most share a common trait; they're expensive. Razer Blade is our favorite gaming laptop, but you'll have to pay well over a thousand dollars for a base model even if you find a good sale. Dell's Inspiron G-Series is one of the few reliable budget options, with prices starting at $800.
It's a popular choice, which is why Dell offers three different G-Series models. Choosing between them isn't easy. They offer hardware that looks roughly similar on paper with only slight differences in price. I went hands-on with all three to decide which of these budget rigs is worth your cash.
The Inspiron G3 is a painfully obvious budget pick The Dell G3 starts at $800, the G5 at $850, and the G7 at $950. As usual, the more you spend, the better laptop you'll get. However, the closely packed base MSRPs mean there's plenty of overlap to wade through.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
