Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing News This Noctua-themed gaming PC is a bespoke beauty — and you can buy it By Monica J. White Close Maingear Most gaming PCs have a certain kind of aesthetic that often screams “gamer.” RGB lights and strangely shaped chassis can stand out like a sore thumb if they don’t match the aesthetic of your space. But if you’re big on the design side of things and still want a powerful PC , Maingear has just launched two new prebuilt desktop lines that might suit you. Dubbed North and Noctua North, they both come equipped with some of the best graphics cards and processors.
The PCs are part of the new Maingear Drops program, which are limited-edition PC releases that the company says will evolve over time. Maingear split these two releases into a “Series” tier and a “Limited Edition” tier, and the difference is that Series products span several different models with varying specs, while the Limited Edition is a single preconfigured rig.
I fell in love with this adorable mini gaming PC This is the best Alienware gaming PC you can buy 5 things you should never do with your gaming laptop As you probably guessed, Limited Edition PCs are very limited. The first Noctua North Limited Edition PC is the result of Maingear’s collaboration with — you guessed it — Noctua, the manufacturer behind some of the best cooling solutions on the market. It’s also limited to only 50 units. In this PC, it’s not just the fans that Noctua had a hand in creating, but also the GPU, as the computer comes with an Asus GeForce RTX 4080 OC Noctua Edition graphics card. There’s also an Intel Core i9-13900K processor.
Maingear The GPU follows Noctua’s usual beige-and-brown aesthetic, as does the rest of the PC. The whole thing is very aesthetically pleasing when combined with the same Fractal Design North case as the North Series desktops.
North Series PCs, aside from being more readily available, will let you pick from among some of Intel’s top CPUs and Nvidia’s latest RTX 40-series graphics cards. The lowest tier starts with an RTX 4060 GPU and an Intel Core i5-13400F processor, but you can customize the PC to feature much more high-end parts, such as the beastly RTX 4090 or the Core i9-13900K.
 You’ll also be able to choose between air and liquid cooling, and it’s pretty likely that various storage and RAM options will be available too.
Maingear’s new PCs are almost certainly going to smash their way through some of the most demanding AAA titles for the next few years, although that depends on the configuration you choose. The North Series PCs start at just $1,299, but the price will go up exponentially if you choose high-end components. The Maingear Noctua North Limited Edition PC is available now for $4,699, if you’re one of the lucky few who can snag one.
 That’s a pretty hefty price to pay for an RTX 4080-powered PC, but all that aesthetic and Noctua cooling might be worth the added premium.
Editors' Recommendations This is the best Dell gaming laptop you can buy Whatever you do, don’t buy an Nvidia GPU right now The tech that will actually make you a better PC gamer Intel’s next-gen GPUs are its first real shot at being the best Don’t believe the hype — the era of native resolution gaming isn’t over News PC Gaming Tech News Computing The world of the best gaming laptops is constantly evolving, presenting enthusiasts with an ever-expanding array of powerful, sleek, and innovative choices. Among these, Alienware stands out as a popular brand name renowned for its cutting-edge technology, performance-driven hardware, and futuristic design.
As gaming becomes increasingly immersive and demanding, choosing the right gaming laptop can significantly impact your experience. In this article, we delve into what we think is the best Alienware gaming laptop that you can buy today, the Alienware x16.
Computing There isn't a tech company in the world that isn't trying to fashion itself as an AI innovator right now. But as an established PC brand, Lenovo has an edge in that it can easily bake AI into its products and services.
Is there more to it than that, though? The brand's PCs have already benefitted from several AI features. Lenovo showcased this at its Tech World 2023 conference, with futuristic concepts like the personal AI twin, which will intuitively leverage on-device information in an AI-assistant fashion, and allow you to protect personal data from the web at large. Such projects are another step toward the "AI PC," as it's being called.
Computing Microsoft is testing out a new "Compact Mode" for its Xbox app on Windows 11. The mode is currently available to Xbox Insiders, and it shrinks the sidebar in the Xbox app to provide a clearer view into the main window.
It's not a big deal on its own, but it's clearly a move by Microsoft to make Windows 11 easier to use on devices like the Asus ROG Ally and Lenovo Legion Go. It's a step in the right direction, but we need more radical changes to the Xbox app if Microsoft has any hope of making it a destination for not only Xbox Game Pass, but handheld PC gaming devices.
Do it my way Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
