Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Features Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? I review gaming laptops professionally — these are the only two you should buy in 2023 By Jacob Roach Close I’m not going to lie: There are a lot of great gaming laptops out there. There are so many options, in fact, that it’s hard to narrow it down to a couple that truly stand out from the pack.
Lenovo Legion Pro 5 Asus ROG Strix Scar 17 What about everything else? Even recognizing that, there are two main laptops I recommend when someone asks me directly which gaming laptop they should buy. That doesn’t mean other gaming laptops are bad, but these two hit the budget and performance requirements that most people are looking for in a way few other laptops can match.
Lenovo Legion Pro 5 Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Without fail, if someone asks me which gaming laptop they should buy, I point them toward the Lenovo Legion Pro 5. It earned near-perfect marks in our Lenovo Legion Pro 5 review , and that mainly comes down to its performance and price.
I fell in love with this adorable mini gaming PC Whatever you do, don’t buy an Nvidia GPU right now AMD finally announced the GPU I’ve waited months for The base configuration is $1,250, which sets the standard for what you should expect to spend on a current-gen laptop with solid performance. For that price, you’re getting an RTX 4060 mobile graphics card, 1TB of storage, 16GB of DDR5 memory, and an AMD Ryzen 7 7745HX.
It’s hard beating the value given those specs. There are cheaper gaming laptops you can buy, such as the Dell G15, but few can touch the balance of performance and price that the Legion Pro 5 offers.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Performance is only part of the reason the Lenovo Legion Pro 5 stands out so much, though. For starters, the port selection is excellent. It may seem small, but the number and placement of ports can make a huge difference on gaming laptops. The Legion Pro 5 comes with two USB 3.2 Gen 1 Type A ports, afull-size Ethernet, a USB-C that supports up to 140 watts of power, and an HDMI 2.1 port in the back of the machine, negating a lot of cable mess. Lenovo includes another pair of USB-A ports (one on each side), along with a USB-C port for the left side.
It’s a great selection, and it’s split up in a way that keeps the most bulky cables out of your way. The ports are joined by a spacious trackpad, along with a fantastic keyboard. Lenovo makes some of the best laptop keyboards, and it’s been clear for years that it takes ideas from its ThinkPad range and brings them down to its Legion line. The keyboard has a decent amount of travel, and although I like some other keyboards more for long typing sessions, the Legion Pro 5 is still plenty comfortable to use.
There are some minor issues, still. The laptop is fairly bulky, and it’s weighed down by a large power brick. Franky, those issues are hard to avoid on any gaming laptop. The 2,560 x 1,600 screen isn’t great, either. It’s not bad, offering a solid 165Hz refresh rate and good color accuracy, but it’s not as impressive as the local dimming and 240Hz refresh rate featured on the display of the ROG Zephyrus M16.
Those minor quirks are easy to look past considering how much else the Legion Pro 5 has to offer. It offers a great value for the performance, and the build quality shoots past most other laptops in this class.
Asus ROG Strix Scar 17 Jacob Roach / Digital Trends You want peak performance, and you’re willing to spend up to achieve it. Let me introduce you to the Asus Strix Scar 17, which is about as high-end as gaming laptops come. The base price is $2,900 for an AMD Ryzen 9 7945HX and an RTX 4080, and that combination delivers flagship performance. If you spend up for an RTX 4090 configuration like the one we tested in our Asus ROG Strix Scar 17 review , you’ll have a laptop that beats most high-end desktops.
It can deliver above 100 frames per second (fps) at its native 1440p resolution in the most demanding games, including Cyberpunk 2077 and Red Dead Redemption 2.
It has enough grunt for ray tracing , too, especially when you factor in Nvidia’s Deep Learning Super Sampling 3 (DLSS 3).
With DLSS 3 and GPUs as powerful as the RTX 4080 and RTX 4090, you can even power through things like path tracing in Cyberpunk 2077 with the Scar 17. And as if flagship hardware wasn’t enough, the Scar 17 is the only laptop that currently has AMD’s Ryzen 9 7945HX3D mobile processor available as an option.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Raw power definitely takes center stage for the Scar 17. Everything else is OK, but it nothing else stands out as much as performance. Starting with the screen, it’s a bog standard IPS panel, but it still boasts Nvidia G-Sync, a 240Hz refresh rate, and a 1440p resolution. A proper HDR display would be better, but considering the hardware and price, it’s a fair trade-off.
The keyboard is a highlight, offering impressive travel and per-key RGB lighting. I also appreciate that Asus includes dedicated media keys, so you can quickly adjust your volume without reaching for the Function key. Port selection is solid as well, with dual USB-C and USB-A ports, along with a 2.5 Gigabit Ethernet port and full-size HDMI 2.1.
What’s great about the Scar 17 is that it offers desktop-replacement levels of performance without going overboard like the MSI GT77 Titan.
 It’s a monster of a gaming laptop, and unlike most machines in this class, the price feels fair for the level of performance it offers.
What about everything else? Jacob Roach / Digital Trends I wanted to specifically highlight two gaming laptops here that I believe are truly special after spending some time with them. That doesn’t mean every other gaming laptop is bad, or you shouldn’t consider other options. There are some excellent gaming laptops you should keep in mind, particularly if you have a certain use case.
For gamers on the go, I can’t recommend anything other than the Alienware x14 R2.
 It’s portable, rugged, and comes with great battery life. Performance isn’t off the charts, but it still packs plenty of gaming grunt with its Intel Core i7-13620H processor and RTX 4060 GPU. The Alienware x16 is worth a shout-out here, too, especially if you’re looking for a portable desktop replacement.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends I need to mention the Razer Blade 1 , as well. It would be the perfect gaming laptop if it wasn’t for its high base price. The RTX 4070 configuration is a showstopper, and the laptop is built like a tank. But at $2,700, you’re definitely spending a lot of money on a premium fit and finish.
I still recommend the Lenovo Legion Pro 5 and Asus ROG Strix Scar 17 the most, though. If you need a few more options, make sure to check out our other gaming laptop roundups: Best budget gaming laptops Best gaming laptops for Starfield Best 14-inch gaming laptops Best 2-in-1 gaming laptops Editors' Recommendations This is the best Dell gaming laptop you can buy Don’t wait for new GPUs. It’s safe to buy a gaming laptop now 5 things you should never do with your gaming laptop Why I refuse to buy a gaming laptop, even though I need one AMD’s new anti-lag tech could land you with a ban in games Features Laptops Lenovo PC PC Gaming Computing Monitors are getting cheaper, and that's particularly true for 4K gaming monitors. Over the past couple of years, multiple brands have launched their own stripped-back 4K gaming displays, with each driving prices down, and proper 4K gaming displays are cheaper now than they've ever been.
The price drops aren't insignificant, either. The go-to 4K gaming display over the past several years has been the LG 27GN950-B, which launched for $800. Now, you'd be overpaying if you pick one up for more than $650. Samsung's market-defining Odyssey Neo G8 launched just last year for $1,500. Now? You can buy it for $1,000 on sale.
Computing As a former marketing professional and a laptop reviewer, I often find myself surprised and sometimes confused by the decisions companies make when launching a laptop. An example is when a company introduces just one or two configurations that may not meet the needs of a range of users and, as a result, starts a laptop off on the wrong foot. In that case, I can at least understand the complexity of manufacturing and component sourcing. Although I'll mention a lack of options in a review, I won't necessarily ding a laptop because of it.
Some mistakes, though, are harder to overlook. That's how I feel about Microsoft's Surface Laptop Go 3, which the company introduced at a significantly higher price than its predecessors. The laptop, which is designed and configured like a budget machine, starts at $800 and runs up to $1,000. Those are midrange prices, but the Surface just can't compete against many midrange laptops.
$800 is too much Asus Zenbook 14 OLED Mark Coppock / Digital Trends Computing We've seen gaming laptops in classrooms and out in the wild on public transportion, but we've never expected to spot an Asus ROG laptop in a courtroom -- especially in the hands of an attorney representing former President Donald Trump. Still, there it was, with RGB lighting changing colors all throughout the first day of Trump's $250 million fraud trial in New York.
The unidentified laptop in question belongs to Alina Habba, one of Trump's attorneys, and it was first spotted by Ryan Rigney, a marketing director at a game development company called Odyssey Studio. Rigney took to Twitter to share his findings, claiming that we're looking at an Asus laptop with an Nvidia RTX 2070 Ti inside. The RTX 2070 Ti doesn't exist, so Rigney is most likely talking about the RTX 2070 Super.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
