Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Features Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Don’t buy the Surface Laptop Go 3 — here’s what you should get instead By Mark Coppock Close Mark Coppock / Digital Trends As a former marketing professional and a laptop reviewer, I often find myself surprised and sometimes confused by the decisions companies make when launching a laptop. An example is when a company introduces just one or two configurations that may not meet the needs of a range of users and, as a result, starts a laptop off on the wrong foot. In that case, I can at least understand the complexity of manufacturing and component sourcing. Although I’ll mention a lack of options in a review, I won’t necessarily ding a laptop because of it.
$800 is too much $1,000 is even worse Some mistakes, though, are harder to overlook. That’s how I feel about Microsoft’s Surface Laptop Go 3 , which the company introduced at a significantly higher price than its predecessors. The laptop, which is designed and configured like a budget machine, starts at $800 and runs up to $1,000. Those are midrange prices, but the Surface just can’t compete against many midrange laptops.
$800 is too much Asus Zenbook 14 OLED Mark Coppock / Digital Trends At a starting price of $800, the Surface Laptop Go 3 comes with a last-gen Intel CPU, the Core i5-1235U, along with 8GB of RAM and a 256GB SSD. To be fair, that’s an upgrade from the previous generations’ 4GB and 128GB in the base configuration that cost $550. It uses plastic in its build and has a low-resolution display that’s less than 1080p. Today, those would be OK specifications at a $550 price.
Why I can’t recommend buying the prettiest laptop of the year Don’t wait on next-gen gaming laptops — here’s what you should buy instead I upgraded my Framework Laptop’s CPU in under 15 minutes But let’s look at one alternative, the Asus Zenbook 14 OLED.
 That laptop costs $700 for a faster AMD Ryzen 5 7530U, 8GB of RAM, and a 256GB SSD. The kicker is the Zenbook’s spectacular 2.8K OLED display that’s much sharper and provides awesome brightness, vastly superior colors, and incredibly high contrast that makes for inky blacks. It’s a larger laptop at 14 inches versus the Surface Laptop Go’s 12.4 inches, but for many, if not most, people that would be a plus. The 14-inch display makes for a great compromise between screen and chassis size.
The Zenbook is also built better, with an all-metal chassis, and it has a better keyboard and larger touchpad. It also has a 1080p webcam versus the Surface’s 720p version, and its wireless connectivity is up to date at Wi-Fi 6E versus Wi-Fi 6. I’m putting together a more comprehensive comparison of the laptops, but the point is that the Surface Laptop Go 3 simply can’t compete. And the Zenbook isn’t the only superior laptop you can buy for $800 or less.
I’ll also mention the Dell XPS 13 9315.
 It’s closer in size to the Surface Laptop Go 3 with a 13.4-inch display, and it starts at just $599. It uses a lower-power 12th-gen Intel CPU, so it’s slightly slower than the Surface, but it also comes with 8GB of RAM and a 256GB SSD. Its display is sharper and provides more accurate colors, but it’s otherwise similar in performance. Finally, it’s constructed entirely of aluminum, but also has a 720p webcam. It’s a better laptop, although not in the same class as the Zenbook, and it costs $200 less than the Surface Laptop Go 3. Not good.
Price is one of the most important marketing considerations when launching a new product. And the Surface Laptop Go 3 is just too expensive.
$1,000 is even worse Apple MacBook Air M2 Luke Larsen / Digital Trends There’s also a higher-end configuration of the Surface Laptop Go 3, which costs $1,000 and increases RAM to 16GB. For the same price at Best Buy, you can get an Asus Zenbook 14X with a very fast Intel Core i7-13700H CPU, 16GB of RAM, a 512GB SSD, and the same OLED display as on the Zenbook 14 OLED. That’s just one example of a laptop that blows the Surface out of the water for the same money.
Just as significant, you can also get the Apple MacBook Air M1 directly from Apple for $1,000, and as I’m writing this, the MacBook Air M2 is available from Best Buy for $949. The MacBook Air M1 is still relevant, with faster performance, a much better display, and a rock-solid build. Grab the MacBook Air M2 at this sale price and you’re getting a laptop that’s much faster than the Surface, slightly faster than the M1 version, and sports a more modern design. It’s also the thinnest laptop around at just 0.44 inches.
Clearly, these are all better laptops at $1,000. Anyone doing their research before buying will find those and others that are far better values.
No matter how you shake it, the Surface Laptop Go 3 just doesn’t belong in that class. It’s a lame guppy swimming in a sea of sharks.
Editors' Recommendations Microsoft’s Surface Laptop Go 3 is a more capable budget laptop Microsoft’s Surface Laptop Studio 2 might get a massive performance boost CPU confusion made buying a laptop in 2022 a nightmare Surface Laptop Go 2 brings improved webcam, performance Framework Laptop now offering CPU upgrade to Intel’s latest Features Laptops Microsoft Computing There could finally be a successor to the Surface Laptop Go announced in a matter of weeks, according to a report by Zac Bowden of Windows Central.
If accurate, Microsoft might be planning to unveil the new hardware, possibly to be called the Surface Laptop Go 2, during the first half of this year, sources told Bowden.
Computing You may have noticed that most laptop brands include performance utilities these days. Most people likely ignore these applications as bloatware but having tested many of these performance modes across different laptops, I'll testify that there's reason to pay attention to them -- especially if you're a gamer or content creator.
The reality is that if performance matters to you, these modes really are important, and they should factor into both how you use your laptop, and even what laptop you buy.
What do performance modes do? Computing During Microsoft's Surface event today, the company is finally pulled the wraps off of its much-rumored, next-gen Surface products. This includes the Surface Go 3, an update to the lightweight 2-in-1 meant to compete with lower-cost tablets like the $329 iPad.
The exterior is nearly identical to the Surface Go 2. The Surface Go 3 retains the same 10.5-inch PixelSense touchscreen display with a 1080p display. The 5-megapixel front and 8-megapixel rear cameras are carried over as well, making it a solid choice for students and families.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
