Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Features Why I refuse to buy a gaming laptop, even though I need one By Monica J. White Close I’ve had a few gaming laptops in my life, but I really can’t see myself ever buying another one — even though there are definitely times when I could use one. That’s not to throw shade to some of the best gaming laptops , because I know those are great for those who can appreciate them. I simply can’t bring myself to trust another one again.
Once burned, twice shy The price doesn’t add up Not a long-term solution Don’t make the mistakes that I did I’m not against buying a laptop for gaming, but here are some of the reasons I’ve continued to resist picking one for myself.
Once burned, twice shy Jacob Roach / Digital Trends / Digital Trends The gaming laptops I’ve had were, for the most part, a hot mess — emphasis on “hot.” I was always more of a desktop gaming fan, but at certain periods in my life, I’ve had a laptop instead of, or in addition to, a gaming PC.
 A couple of these laptops remain fresh in my memory, serving as reminders as to why I don’t want to get burned again. Literally.
I fell in love with this adorable mini gaming PC 5 things you should never do with your gaming laptop Alan Wake 2 is proof that more PC games need a potato mode One of the biggest advantages of a desktop over a laptop is the fact that thermal throttling is much less likely to happen. Even in a smaller PC case , your components still get a lot of airflow. Provided that you pick the right PC build and a solid cooling solution, heat shouldn’t be a problem unless you’re into overclocking. That’s just not the case with laptops.
A small chassis stuffed to the brim with gaming components, including a discrete GPU and a power-hungry processor, means a lot of heat, and that is exactly why I’m staying far away from gaming laptops.
 All the ones I’ve had in the past have had overheating issues.
You might tell me to get a laptop cooling pad, and I have — it was pretty much a necessity for me to be able to use the laptop at any serious capacity. Even then, I was faced with throttling, poor performance, and, worst of all, shutdowns. A laptop I had in 2014 would shut down within a minute of booting up if it didn’t have a cooling pad, and even if it did, it still struggled.
I reached the end of the line when my old Asus laptop would only stay on if I had a hair dryer blowing into the side fans on a cool setting at all times. Obviously, I didn’t keep that up for long, but it was enough to put me off of gaming laptops for a long time. Imagine trying to game or do any work with a hair dryer blowing next to you the whole time … let’s just say that it wasn’t ideal, but I was in-between desktops and had to stick it out for a while.
These are extreme cases that I’m describing above, of course, and the laptops weren’t quite this bad out of the box. However, over time, things got progressively worse until reaching a point where repairs would have made no sense.
One thing to note, though, is that even if the overheating didn’t always lead to shutdowns, every single laptop I’ve owned had some issues with thermal throttling during gaming. Seeing as I tend to play a lot of games in my free time, that makes it a no-go for me. Few things are more frustrating than seeing your frames per second (fps) drop down to between 5 and 10 because your laptop is having a hard time.
The price doesn’t add up Jacob Roach / Digital Trends My second reason for avoiding gaming laptops is purely practical, and my resolve has only strengthened over time as these notebooks grew more and more expensive. As someone who enjoys PC building and keeps tabs on the prices of many components, I really don’t think that a gaming laptop can ever provide decent value for the money when compared with a proper desktop.
Some of the most recent laptops are notorious for this. Depending on the brand and the exact specifications, you can’t really get a solid gaming laptop for less than $1,500 to $2,000 these days, and high-end options can cost you significantly more. Meanwhile, with a $2,000 budget, you can build yourself a PC with one of the best graphics cards , such as the RTX 4070 Ti or the 7800 XT.
 In the case of the latter, you’ll still have money left over for a monitor.
Laptops with Nvidia’s RTX 40-series GPUs are especially pricey. Let’s take the RTX 4070 as an example, which is a middle-of-the-pack kind of GPU both in its desktop and laptop versions.
Laptops sporting this graphics card range from $1,600 to well over $2,300. Meanwhile, the desktop model costs $550 to $650 and shows a commanding lead over its laptop counterpart. The same can be said of any other component: The desktop version is more powerful, but also cheaper. That doesn’t mean cheap — Nvidia has a pretty outrageous pricing strategy — but you’re still getting more value for the money here.
Of course, there are reasons why someone might choose a gaming laptop over a desktop and still come out on top money-wise. For one, a laptop is good to go from the moment you buy it, so you won’t need a monitor, a keyboard, or a mouse the way you would with a PC. (Although, who can really enjoy gaming on a trackpad? I digress.) There’s also the portability factor, which is mostly why these laptops are so expensive in comparison. If you travel a lot, a laptop might be your only option to enjoy games on the go. But high-end models pretty much need to stay plugged in most of the time anyway, due to short battery life and limited performance when running in power-saving mode.
For me, those factors still don’t make gaming laptops a worthwhile purchase, but I realize that they’re more situational. However, the fact remains that you can usually build yourself a much better PC for the price of a midtier to high-end gaming laptop.
Not a long-term solution Jacob Roach / Digital Trends There’s one more thing that gaming laptops lack, and this is something I normally love in desktops — upgradability.
Sure, you can upgrade a laptop to some extent. You can choose to buy it with more RAM or storage out of the box or add some later on yourself, and you can also replace the battery. Keyboards and trackpads can be replaced if needed, although most people just let a repair service handle that for them instead of going the DIY route. What about CPUs and GPUs? Pretty much unheard of, and usually impossible.
With a desktop, half the fun is planning out your build and putting it together. Better yet — some of the parts might stay with you for years. You don’t need to throw out your whole PC when some parts of it are starting to underperform; you can just buy a few new components and enjoy the performance boost.
Thanks to some future-proofing and upgrades, I was able to keep my previous gaming PC in good condition for almost seven years. I could still play AAA games by the end of its run, although of course, I compromised on some settings. Throughout the years, I upgraded my GPU, power supply, cooler, SSD, and RAM.
 When I finally let my old PC retire, I still kept my SSDs and HDDs and turned them into external drives. I could have easily repurposed more of the components, but I felt it was time for a fresh build.
This is pretty uncommon in laptops , which are often replaced at around the 3 to 5 year mark. Money-wise, I still spent a decent amount over the years upgrading my existing PC build , so it might have added up to about the same amount. However, thanks to these upgrades, I never had to spend too much at any given time and my PC stayed somewhat up to date. With a laptop, you’re locked to what you get and won’t get any significant performance boost until you buy a new one.
Don’t make the mistakes that I did Kunal Khullar / Digital Trends I’ve had some really bad experiences with gaming laptops , but I recognize that they’re not universal. The rule of thumb is nothing as simple as “laptop bad, PC good.” Instead, it all comes down to what you need and what you’re spending your money on.
I can’t even remember how many laptops I’ve owned over the course of my life, but a lot of them were bought on the cheap. This is an easy mistake to make when a solid gaming laptop will cost you $2,000 or more, but try not to go for the cheapest option when you shop. Those are usually the notebooks that struggle with overheating or deliver worse performance than their top-brand counterparts.
Before diving in and getting a laptop, do some research. We have a frequently updated ranking of some of the best gaming laptops , and you can use that to narrow it down to specific models. Read the reviews and turn to PC gaming communities for some firsthand feedback from actual users. If a particular product doesn’t sound too great, it probably isn’t.
As a gamer who travels semi-frequently, I have a desktop, a Nintendo Switch, and a non- gaming laptop as a last resort. I don’t use it for gaming — my desktop spoiled me far too much for it to be enjoyable.
My belief is that gaming laptops are a good way to supplement a desktop, but not fully replace it. There’s just too much that I miss when playing on one, be it my dual-monitor setup, a comfortable keyboard, or smooth performance. All of those things can be bought in addition to a laptop, but they have an impact on the portability factor, which is one of the main perks of laptops.
If you’re someone who needs portability, there are good gaming laptops out there that will even run Cyberpunk 2077 on ultra settings. A lot goes into what makes a laptop good, from the manufacturer to the components and their exact wattage. The secret lies in the research.
Editors' Recommendations This is the best Dell gaming laptop you can buy Don’t wait for new GPUs. It’s safe to buy a gaming laptop now I made an entire PC build for the price of one Nvidia GPU This is the one accessory every Steam Deck owner should buy This underrated Nvidia GPU is still the one to buy Features Laptops PC PC Gaming Computing AMD hasn't done much with its laptop GPUs this generation, but that's changing. The company revealed the new Radeon RX 7900M, which is a mobile GPU that's squarely targeting the performance of Nvidia's RTX 4080.
Although AMD announced laptop GPUs at the beginning of the year, we haven't seen them in very many laptops. It appears that's changing. The RX 7900M is arriving first in the Alienware m18 laptop alongside AMD's Ryzen 9 7945HX processor. AMD hasn't said if we'll see more laptops with the GPU yet, but it looks like we should only expect it high-end, desktop replacement-class machines.
Computing Monitors are getting cheaper, and that's particularly true for 4K gaming monitors. Over the past couple of years, multiple brands have launched their own stripped-back 4K gaming displays, with each driving prices down, and proper 4K gaming displays are cheaper now than they've ever been.
The price drops aren't insignificant, either. The go-to 4K gaming display over the past several years has been the LG 27GN950-B, which launched for $800. Now, you'd be overpaying if you pick one up for more than $650. Samsung's market-defining Odyssey Neo G8 launched just last year for $1,500. Now? You can buy it for $1,000 on sale.
Computing We've seen gaming laptops in classrooms and out in the wild on public transportion, but we've never expected to spot an Asus ROG laptop in a courtroom -- especially in the hands of an attorney representing former President Donald Trump. Still, there it was, with RGB lighting changing colors all throughout the first day of Trump's $250 million fraud trial in New York.
The unidentified laptop in question belongs to Alina Habba, one of Trump's attorneys, and it was first spotted by Ryan Rigney, a marketing director at a game development company called Odyssey Studio. Rigney took to Twitter to share his findings, claiming that we're looking at an Asus laptop with an Nvidia RTX 2070 Ti inside. The RTX 2070 Ti doesn't exist, so Rigney is most likely talking about the RTX 2070 Super.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
