Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing News CES 2023: Acer’s new all-in-ones look like serious iMac competitors By Fionna Agomuoh Close The Acer Aspire S all-in-one series is now official in 27-and-32-inch models that bear a striking resemblance to Apple’s iMacs.
Having a similar target market of families who require an everyday computer and high entertainment demand, both models offer wide screens and aesthetically pleasing designs.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The Aspire S 27 and Aspire S 32 have been announced with mobile Intel P-series processors, in Core i5 or Core i7 flavors. The difference in performance, though, is that the 32-inch model supports the latest 13th-gen chips, while the Aspire S 27 is stuck with the last-gen 12th-gen.
They differ in graphics too. Aspire S 32 has options for discrete graphics with Intel’s Arc graphics , whereas the Aspire S 27 only has integrated graphics.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Both all-in-ones have memory options that include 4GB, 8GB, and 16GB DDR4 at 3200MHz soDIMM, or 32GB of dual-channel DDR4 at 3200 MHz. Its storage options include M.2 SSD and 2.5-inch SATA , which is not something you see very often these days. It can be configured with 256GB, 512GB, or 1,024GB of M.2 PCIe SSD, or 1TB and 2TB 2.5-inch 5400 RPM, 7mm high.
Logitech’s new Pro X peripherals are stunning, but I only recommend one of them The best VR and metaverse tech of CES 2023 As a laptop reviewer, this is the CES 2023 laptop I’m most excited for The Acer Aspire S 32, model S32-1856, features a 32-inch 2560 x 1400 resolution LED-backlit touchscreen display with a 16:9 aspect ratio and 250 nits of brightness, which is a bit dim. The four-side borderless IPS panel rests inside an aluminum chassis that has an ergonomic tiltable design. The 27-inch model’s screen is identical in every way except size.
Among the frame are dual built-in stereo speakers, which are powered by DTS audio tuning. Additionally, the PC includes a fingerprint reader and a Kensington lock slot as security features.
Image used with permission by copyright holder For input, the Acer Aspire S 32 includes a card reader, an audio jack, one USB-C, one USB 3.1 Gen 2, one DisplayPort over USB-C, and two USB-A 3.2 Gen2 at its front and sides. In the rear, the PC includes two HDMI ports, one LAN port, and two USB-A 3.2 Gen1 ports.
For connectivity, the Acer Aspire S 32 includes Wi-Fi 6, Wi-Fi 6E, and Bluetooth 5.
Both the Acer Aspire S 32 and Aspire S 27 will be available in North America in the first quarter of 2023. The Aspire S 32 will sell for $1,700 and the Aspire S 27 for $1,200.
Editors' Recommendations Apple’s new M3 looks fast, but will it really be worth the upgrade? HP’s new Envy x360 14 looks like a killer value for what you get Samsung’s new Odyssey Neo G9 gaming monitor is beautiful, but it has a fatal flaw Here’s everything I learned using the HTC Vive XR Elite at CES 2023 CES 2023 is a turning point for the dilemma between TVs and gaming monitors Acer CES 2023 Tech News Computing I won't pretend that gaming keyboards are exciting. We see them year after year with minimal changes, nearly all of which you can see in a product photo. My relationship with gaming keyboards completely changed when I built my own -- suddenly, nothing seemed even close. But Asus is challenging that position.
The ROG Azoth is an unassuming gaming keyboard, but it's a huge deal for the world of custom-built keyboards. Even after seeing AMD's Ryzen 9 7950X3D and Samsung's Odyssey OLED G9, Asus' lowly keyboard is my most anticipated product at CES 2023. Here's why.
Premium build, meet wireless Computing I won't blame you if you hear the phrase, "3D laptop screen," and roll your eyes. I was skeptical about it too.
This 3D Laptop Display Blew Me Away! Computing CES 2023 brought us a ton of exciting new tech, and that includes a bunch of mini-LED gaming laptops. The use of mini-LEDs is still a bit of a novelty in notebooks, but the technology certainly has its perks, including excellent screen brightness and sharp and deep contrasts.
With some of the latest hardware on the inside and stunning displays on the outside, these mini-LED models may very well turn out to be some of the best gaming laptops of the year. Scroll down to meet these new gems from Asus, Razer, Acer, and MSI.
Razer Blade 16 Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
