Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Apple Mac mini M2 buying guide: don’t make this mistake By Jacob Roach Close Apple’s M2 Mac mini brings a long-awaited update to one of the best desktop computers you can buy. Although it’s an impressive machine overall, you have to pay close attention when configuring one.
Here’s the M2 Mac mini Slow storage is a bad buy on the Mac mini How to configure the Mac mini M2 Should you buy the Mac mini M2? Choosing the wrong parts can result in a Mac mini that’s much slower than it should be. We’re here to help you choose the ideal configuration for your budget, as well as steer you away from some performance pitfalls with cheaper models.
Here’s the M2 Mac mini Apple / Apple Apple’s much-needed Mac mini update comes with the new M2 processor , which is easily its biggest draw. Overall, Mac mini M2 reviews say it’s around 15% faster than the previous generation, which isn’t an ideal update. However, the new Mac mini also comes with a $100 price cut, bringing the base price down to $600.
MacBook Pro M3: Should you choose the M3, M3 Pro, or M3 Max? Apple’s M3 Max appears to keep up with Intel’s top desktop CPU The M3 Max makes the MacBook Pro look like a nearly unbeatable laptop Externally, the Mac mini M2 doesn’t look much different than the previous generation. It carries the same chassis and port selection, though Apple upgraded the new machine with Bluetooth 5.3 and Wi-Fi 6E. The two Thunderbolt ports have also been updated to Thunderbolt 4, supporting up to one 6K display or a 5K display and a 4K display simultaneously.
The exciting update is the M2 Pro processor. Unlike the previous generation, Apple is offering the new Mac mini with an M2 Pro processor, which is also available in the new MacBook Pro.
 It comes with more cores, allowing the M2 Pro to run much more demanding applications.
In addition to newer Thunderbolt and wireless protocols, the M2 Pro Mac mini comes with four Thunderbolt 4 ports as opposed to the two featured on the base M2 Mac mini. You can also add more storage and memory to the M2 Pro model.
Slow storage is a bad buy on the Mac mini Apple offers three configurations of the M2 Mac mini as starting points, though you’re free to upgrade certain aspects like storage for the model you want. Here are the base configurations: M2 256GB M2 512GB M2 Pro CPU cores 8 cores 8 cores 10 cores GPU cores 10 cores 10 cores 16 cores Memory 8GB Unified Memory 8GB Unified Memory 16GB Unified Memory Storage 256GB SSD 512GB SSD 512GB SSD Ports 2x Thunderbolt 4 / USB 4, 3.5mm headphone, HDMI, 2x USB 2.1 2x Thunderbolt 4 / USB 4, 3.5mm headphone, HDMI, 2x USB 3.1 4x Thunderbolt 4 / USB 4, 3.5mm headphone, HDMI, 2x USB 3.1 Networking Gigabit Ethernet, Wi-Fi 6E, Bluetooth 5.3 Gigabit Ethernet, Wi-Fi 6E, Bluetooth 5.3 Gigabit Ethernet, Wi-Fi 6E, Bluetooth 5.3 Price $600 $800 $1,300 Where to buy Seems straightforward enough: You have a 256GB and 512GB option for the base M2 chip, as well as an upgrade M2 Pro design. Be very careful with the model you choose, though. The 256GB configuration is much slower than the other options.
Similar to the MacBook Air M2 , Apple went cheap on the SSD for the 256GB model. It uses a single NAND chip for storage, resulting in up to 50% slower SSD performance. The MacBook Pro M2 Pro has this same issue, which is a big reason why reviewers are saying to avoid the 256GB model.
Brandon Geekabit/YouTube The good news is that the storage hit is the only reason to avoid the 256GB model. You’re getting the same M2 processor, 8GB of Unified Memory, and port selection as the 512GB model. We still recommend spending the extra $200, not only for more storage space but also for much faster storage.
How to configure the Mac mini M2 Apple You have several options to configure the Mac mini M2. For the base M2 model, you can upgrade to 16GB or 24GB of Unified memory, and you can opt for 256GB, 512GB, 1TB, or 2TB of storage space. You can also add 10 Gigabit Ethernet over the standard Gigabit Ethernet port.
Here’s the base M2 model we’d recommend: Apple M2 with eight-core CPU, 10-core GPU 16GB of Unified Memory 512GB SSD Gigabit Ethernet This configuration is basically identical to the $800 model Apple has listed, short of a $200 upcharge for 16GB of Unified Memory. 8GB will get you by for standard web browsing, but 16GB can help a lot in applications like Final Cut Pro and Xcode.
We wouldn’t recommend jumping up to 24GB of Unified Memory. It provides a small boost in certain apps, but it’s an additional $200 on top of the 16GB configuration. Similarly, you can pack in up to 2TB of SSD storage, but it’s an $800 upcharge. 512GB solves the speed issue present with the 256GB model, and the M2 Mac mini has plenty of connectivity to support an external hard drive.
The M2 Pro model is a bit easier. Here’s the configuration we recommend: M2 Pro with 12-core CPU, 19-core GPU 16GB of Unified Memory 512GB SSD Gigabit Ethernet A lot of heavy lifting is done here between the SSD and memory bump, but we’re recommending the extra powerful 12-core M2 Pro. It features two extra CPU cores and three extra GPU cores, which combined result in around a 15% performance boost.
You don’t need the upgrade, though. It’s an extra $300 over the base 10-core M2 Pro. You can add 32GB of Unified Memory for an extra $400, as well as up to 8TB of SSD storage for an extra $2,400. Again, 16GB is fine for most people, and you can get external storage for your Mac mini for far less than Apple charges.
Should you buy the Mac mini M2? Alex Blake/Digital Trends Given the Mac mini M1 still sells for around $550 new, it’s worth picking up the Mac mini M2 instead. It’s not significantly more powerful, but any extra power is welcome when it’s around the same price as the previous generation. If you want to see how they stack up, make sure to read our Mac Mini M2 versus M1 comparison.
Avoid the 256GB model if you can, though. Even at its higher $800 price, the 512GB Mac mini M2 is the same price as the previous generation right now. This is the configuration we recommend for most people.
If you’re a power user, the M2 Pro is ideal. It’s more expensive, representing a $200 price increase compared to the Intel-based Mac mini it’s replacing. However, the M2 Pro can go toe-to-toe with even the M1 Max inside the Mac Studio, so it’s definitely the pick for power users.
Editors' Recommendations The MacBook Pro M3 doesn’t have a memory problem — it has a pricing problem Apple just dashed our iMac hopes and dreams Why the MacBook Air is still stuck on the M2 Everything announced at Apple’s ‘Scary Fast’ event: iMac, M3, and more Apple’s new M3 looks fast, but will it really be worth the upgrade? Apple Mac Computing I know plenty of people walk into Apple Stores and buy a MacBook right off the shelf because they need one. I get it.
But if you're considering a purchase of a MacBook Pro, in particular, it'll really pay off to pump the brakes. Apple is holding a surprise product launch event next Monday, and if the rumors are to be believed, all three MacBook Pros are going to get updated. Upgrading all three at once would be an unprecedented way to upgrade these laptops for Apple as it simultaneously launches the M3, M3 Pro, and M3 Max chips.
Computing Apple finally confirmed its next event for 5 p.m. PT on Monday, October 30, and it's where we expect the company to introduce new Macs. The event, which carries the tagline "Scary Fast," will be streamed on Apple's website and Apple TV, but that's just about all of the details we know about the event right now.
The teaser on Apple's website shifts between the Apple logo and the Finder logo, further suggesting Apple will be talking about new Macs. The announcement comes about a week after prominent Apple analyst Ming-Chi Kuo revealed that an upcoming refresh to Apple's 24-inch iMac had been delayed to 2024.
Computing If you're shopping for a new MacBook, timing is important when trying to get the most for your money. It's especially important since we know the next MacBook Air is currently in the works, and it's said to come with the anticipated M3 chip.
Considering it's been over a year since the 13-inch M2 MacBook Air made its debut, you might assume the update is coming. If you're in the market for a MacBook Air, I would normally advise you to wait until the M3 model comes out. But according to the latest reports, the M3 MacBook Air may be further away than we originally assumed.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
