Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Apple Mac mini (M2 Pro) review: the best mini computer ever By Luke Larsen Close Still very compact M2 Pro boosts the graphics Lots of storage options Stays amazingly quiet and cool Fantastic port selection Very affordable base configuration Base configuration has slower SSD Not user upgradable Apple Silicon revitalized the Mac mini in 2020.
 It took it from a nearly dead product to one of the best value computers you can buy. In 2023, it’s not only been updated to the M2 chip, it also comes with the option to upgrade to the M2 Pro. That’s right — better graphics in the same tiny footprint.
An old design from Apple’s playbook Ports The SSD problem Performance The Mac mini continues to win It’s not too good to be true, either. It’s the best compact computer ever made, especially when you include the extra graphics of the M2 Pro and the killer value of the base configuration.
MacBook Pro M3: Should you choose the M3, M3 Pro, or M3 Max? Apple’s M3 Max appears to keep up with Intel’s top desktop CPU Best iPad deals: Save on 10.2-inch iPad, iPad Pro, and more An old design from Apple’s playbook Image used with permission by copyright holder The Mac mini is one of the oldest designs in Apple’s current lineup. And as much as I’d appreciate something new, the Mac mini’s simple design is hard to argue with. It’s all-aluminum, compact, and blends into your desk well — and that’s what matters most. There are compact Windows-based PCs, but none that can perform on the level of the Mac mini.
The smallness of this tiny computer is important for other reasons too. Many people use a Mac mini for a home theater PC, or perhaps for media management, and the size of the Mac mini is essential for these scenarios too. The M2 Pro model weighs slightly more than the base model — 2.8 versus 2.6 pounds. Interestingly, that’s just around the same weight as the M2 MacBook Air.
When it comes down to it, the category of mini PCs hasn’t evolved much over recent years. Intel’s NUC machines remain niche, and competitors like the HP Z2 Mini G9 are larger and considerably louder than something like the Mac mini — especially when you include the large power brick that the Mac mini lacks.
So in terms of design, no — I’m not bummed Apple is still using this same chassis. There are times when that is uncalled for, such as in the case of the M2 13-inch MacBook Pro.
 But here, it’s acceptable for Apple to keep things as is. Then again, I’d be lying if I said I didn’t want a Space Gray version.
Ports Image used with permission by copyright holder Port selection is important on any desktop PC, and fortunately, Apple doesn’t skimp out here. The M2 Pro model comes with a headphone jack, two USB-A ports, four Thunderbolt 4 ports, an HDMI 2.1 port, and an Ethernet jack. That’s two extra Thunderbolt ports over both the base M2 and M1 models. That’s a upgrade on its own, as is the jump from HDMI 2.0 to HDMI 2.1.
You can even power an 8K monitor or 4K 240Hz displays if you really wanted to. And with the addition of the extra Thunderbolt ports, you can now power up to three 4K monitors at 60Hz. All that means you can probably get away without needing an extra USB-C hub or Thunderbolt dock, even if you’re powering a serious workstation setup.
My only real complaint is that I wish there was better access to the headphone jack, especially if you plan to have the Mac mini tucked toward the back of your desk.
The SSD problem There’s a well-known issue with Apple’s M2 Macs regarding SSD performance.
 Unfortunately, that appears to have carried over to the Mac mini as well.
Now, I wasn’t able to verify the claims out there about this as my review unit included 1TB of storage, which has blazing-fast speeds. But it needs to be noted that if you’re interested in the entry-level M2 model with 256GB of storage, it will likely deliver much slower read and write speeds. It’ll still likely be plenty fast, but it’s worth pointing out.
In either case, make sure to configure your Mac mini with the amount of storage and memory you actually need, because there’s no going back and upgrading it after your purchase.
Performance When it comes to the Mac mini, performance is what matters most, which is why it’s such a big deal for the M2 Pro to make an appearance. The Pro chip in my review unit adds significantly better graphics to the equation, bumping the GPU up to 19 cores. There’s also a 16-core option for $300 less, which also has two less CPU cores.
One more note on configurations: Apple has different options for the M2 versus the M2 Pro. For example, 8GB of RAM and 256GB of storage is available only on the M2, as is the option for 24GB of RAM.
 Meanwhile, the $1,299 M2 Pro model starts with 16GB of RAM and goes up to 32GB. You can even toss in up to 8TB of storage.
This is a remarkably cool and quiet little computer.
As for how this thing actually performs, there’s a lot to be excited about. So far, this is the only version of the M2 Pro that I’ve tested, but it compares well against the M1 Pro in the 14-inch MacBook Pro. Difference in single-core performance is negligible, but multi-core shows some decent gains. Tested in Cinebench R23, the M2 Pro Mac mini was 17% faster than the M1 Pro in the 14-inch MacBook Pro.
Interestingly, the M2 Pro Mac mini performed almost identically to the M2 Max 14-inch MacBook Pro.
 And despite that performance, the Mac mini does a better job with its thermals. CPU temperatures stayed in the 80s for the most part, with a high of 98 degrees Celsius. It’s a whole lot quieter too, with the fans never spinning over 2,000 RPMs. Even with all cores initiated, this is a remarkably cool and quiet little computer.
Image used with permission by copyright holder But really, the graphics are what excited me about bringing the M2 Pro to the Mac mini. And while the M2 Max or M1 Ultra easily outperform it, the Mac mini holds up well enough. In PugetBench’s Premiere Pro benchmark, I was able to see how the extra GPU cores enhanced the Mac mini’s ability to do things like apply GPU effects or speed up timeline exports. It was 34% faster than the M2 in the MacBook Air I tested last year, with 47% more GPU cores. That’s not perfect scaling, but in a task like exporting, which uses both the GPU and CPU, the M2 Pro Mac mini is 43% faster than the M2 MacBook Air.
Want to see something even more impressive? I tested out Shadow of the Tomb Raider on both the 16-inch MacBook Pro with the M1 Pro and the M2 Pro Mac mini. Surprisingly, the Mac mini has 36% better frame rates, hitting 63 frames per second( fps) at the Highest graphics settings in 1080p. You can even get it up to 75 fps if you drop the settings to Medium. I know the Mac mini isn’t a gaming machine, but that’s pretty impressive, even for a device of this price.
The Mac mini continues to win Digital Trends Of all the M2 Macs, this Mac mini might be one of my new favorites. The M2 isn’t a major leap up from the M1, but thanks to the thermals of the Mac mini, it doesn’t seem to have as many thermal issues as the updated MacBook Pros. And the inclusion of the M2 Pro makes this a fantastic option for creators, especially if those extra graphics will come in handy for your workflow. It’s cooler and quieter than the MacBook Pros, and if you already own a monitor that you love, it’s a no-brainer.
The Mac Studio , of course, still has its place. But the M2 Pro in the Mac mini is a much more mainstream option that serves as an excellent work computer and good starting place for content creators.
I also love that Apple found a way to offer a cheaper way in with the $599 base configuration. You’ll want to proceed with caution given the limited storage and memory, but for the audience, this is a fantastic value considering how fast the M2 chip is. Never has there been a more affordable way to get into the modern Mac ecosystem, and Apple is smart to double down on its value.
Editors' Recommendations The MacBook Pro M3 doesn’t have a memory problem — it has a pricing problem Apple just dashed our iMac hopes and dreams Apple M3: explaining the next generation of Apple silicon Apple’s new M3 Pro might come with an unexpected downgrade How to watch Apple’s ‘Scary Fast’ Mac launch event if you missed it Apple Desktop Reviews Mac Mac Reviews Product Reviews Computing Apple just did something surprising. At its "Scary Fast" launch event, Apple announced a new chip, the M3.
But rather than introduce it in a MacBook Air like it did with the M1 and M2, this event was all about the MacBook Pro. The MacBook Air was inconspicuously missing.
Computing It's not often that MacBook Pros get new color options. But with this most recent update to M3 chips, the MacBook Pro will add Space Black, a color that first appeared on the iPhone, to the mix. I was shown an early preview of the new color ahead of the "Scary Fast" launch event, and I have to say: I'm smitten.
This new Space Black is not true black, of course. In truth, it's a slightly darker gray than Space Gray, which it replaces. And it's a good thing this isn't true black. Because remember, this is aluminum, and Apple isn't just slapping a coating or layer of paint on here like so many laptop manufacturers do when making true black aluminum laptops. These laptops, such as most gaming laptops or even something like the Surface Laptop, tend to scratch easily and fade over time.
Computing Apple announced an update to its MacBook Pros at today's Scary Fast event that brings the M3, M3 Pro, and M3 Max under the hood. That might sound like a ho-hum generational chip refresh, especially coming just 10 months after the M2 Pro/Max models came out. But trust me -- these new MacBook Pros have become an unstoppable force, especially the new full-tilt model with the M3 Max.
The 14-inch MacBook Pro (which replaces the 13-inch MacBook Pro) will now have the option for the M3, M3 Pro, or M3 Max, while the 16-inch model gets the M3 Pro and an even more powerful M3 Max configuration. Across the board, these new M3 chips are built on the new 3nm technology, the same that's used in the new iPhone 15 models, only scaled up for the Mac. It's all about efficiency, with Apple claiming that the M3 chips provides the same performance at 30% less power.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
