Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Reviews Apple MacBook Air (2020) review: The Mac starter kit By Luke Larsen Close $999.00 New keyboard is an improvement More affordable Better graphics Excellent build quality Performance still lacking Bezels are outdated Editor’s note: The M1 MacBook Air replaced the older Intel-based in the fall of 2020.
Read our full review of the latest model.
Keyboard Performance Graphics and gaming Design and display Battery life Our take The MacBook Air is important. It’s the entry point in the best MacBook lineup. It’s the college laptop , the freelancer’s companion, and a favorite of every Mac fan looking for a budget laptop.
The MacBook Pro M3 doesn’t have a memory problem — it has a pricing problem Apple just dashed our iMac hopes and dreams Why the MacBook Air is still stuck on the M2 It’s also where many people get their first impression of the Mac.
That means it needs to balance both performance and price. I tested two versions of the new MacBook Air to see how each of them walks this tightrope.
The Core i3 model starts at $999, while the Core i5 is at $1,199. Each sports the new “Magic Keyboard” as a headline feature.
So, is the latest MacBook Air the perfect introduction to the Mac or, like many recent entry-level Macs, a poor first impression? Keyboard Luke Larsen / Digital Trends The Magic Keyboard is a highlight of the MacBook Air. It’s responsive, clicky, and features a full millimeter of travel. It’s a delight to type on, and a true throwback to the much-beloved MacBooks sold prior to the 2016 MacBook Pro redesign that introduced the butterfly switch keyboards.
That couldn’t be said of the previous two years of MacBook Airs. Apple brought the ill-fated butterfly mechanism keyboard from the MacBook Pro to the Air for the 2018 redesign. It didn’t pan out. Shallow key travel made it off-putting to type on, especially for long periods of time. It was loud — and worst of all, unreliable.
Fortunately, those days are gone, and the MacBook Air once again has one of the best keyboards on a laptop today. It even keeps a standard function row full of old-fashioned buttons instead of leaping to the Touch Bar, a feature I don’t miss. The Touch Bar never added much in the way of meaningful functionality. I’ll take reliable, convenient Escape and Mute keys any day.
Luke Larsen / Digital Trends A Touch ID fingerprint sensor is located on the top right of the function row, which doubles as a power button. It’s really time for Apple to move to facial recognition login on Mac, a feature Apple has nailed on iOS devices. That said, Touch ID works extremely well. It’s the quickest, most intuitive fingerprint sensor you’ll find on a laptop.
While the keyboard steals the spotlight, let’s not forget about the trackpad. It’s large, its tracking is second to none, and its Force Touch click is virtually silent. This is not a surprise. Mac laptops have long had great touchpads. Still, it’s worth remembering that Apple remains a leader here.
Performance The MacBook Air has never been a powerful laptop, and it never claimed to be. It’s the option for those whose needs consist of word processing, email, and online apps. Think of it as one of the best Chromebooks , except with Mac apps.
In 2020, though, the Air has received a respectable boost. This is the first Air to have a quad-core processor, which is an important upgrade. More cores and threads usually mean more muscle for running heavy applications and multitasking. Quad-core chips have become the standard for most laptops, even small laptops like the Surface Pro 7 , Dell XPS 13 , and MacBook Pro 13-inch.
Luke Larsen / Digital Trends That said, the leap to quad-core doesn’t make the Air a workhorse. It’s still behind the competition.
I tested both the Core i3 ($999) and Core i5 ($1,099) models, both with 8GB of RAM. These will likely be the most popular options thanks to their attractive pricing. While the processors used by Apple are part of Intel’s 10th-gen Ice Lake family, they aren’t the same chips you’ll see in most of the MacBook Air’s competitors. They are variations of Y-series chips Intel has partnered with Apple to make exclusively for its laptops.
The cheapest $999 Air has the Core i3-1000NG4, a 9-watt chip with just two cores and four threads. On average, this dishes out a 15% performance boost in benchmarks over the Core i5 MacBook Air from two years ago. That’s not substantial and you likely won’t notice that increase in day-to-day performance. Still, it handles daily tasks well. Apps open quickly, and having a couple of dozen Chrome tabs open won’t slow it down.
Double the cores doesn’t mean twice the performance.
What about the quad-core Core i5-1030NG7? Well, doubling the cores certainly doesn’t mean twice the performance. Because it’s still a 9-watt chip, there’s a ceiling on what it can do. Compared to the Core i3 model, the Core i5 model is 27% better in multi-core benchmarks thanks to those two extra cores, but it’s only 8% faster in single-core. That’s likely because these two processors share a low base clock speed of just 1.1GHz.
Again, performance feels adequate. The problem is not everyday use, but how the MacBook Air compares to other best laptops sold for the same price. The $1,100 HP Spectre x360 also has a 10th-gen Ice Lake Core i5 processor, but it serves up 30% faster multi-core performance over the Core i5.
The difference is the wattage. A 9-watt processor will never push clock speeds that can compete with a chip that can suck down up to 25 or 35 watts in short bursts.
Luke Larsen / Digital Trends Apple applications, of course, are where the MacBook Air benefits the most. If you stick to limited solutions like iMovie and GarageBand, you can handle some light content creation on the side. Just don’t go crazy on the Air’s upgrades. You can buy a Core i7 model, with room for up to 32GB of RAM, and that will raise the price sharply. Yet it will still lag the competition. The MacBook Air is not a device you’ll want to run Logic or Adobe Premiere on, so don’t try to make it a workstation.
Apple prides itself on silent products, but the MacBook Air can be loud. You can’t hop on a Zoom call without the fans kicking in, on both the Core i3 or Core i5 models. These laptops have a larger CPU heatsink than previous models, but I still wish they handled the give-and-take of thermals more efficiently.
Graphics and gaming The MacBook Air’s move to 10th-gen Ice Lake processors comes with one other major enhancement: graphics. Macs have never been gaming machines, but with Apple’s increased focus on supporting Apple Arcade games , a decent graphics option is important.
All versions of the Air include Iris Plus graphics, though the Core i5 and Core i7 models both have 25% more execution units. This translates to acceptable entry-level gaming, so long as you’re willing to pull graphics settings down.
Fortnite is completely unplayable on the Core i3, but it’s manageable on the Core i5. With resolution at 1,440 × 900 and settings at Medium, the Core i5 MacBook Air managed around 40 frames per second. That might not sound impressive, but it’s a large leap over what the previous MacBook Air can do.
Just don’t expect to play demanding games like Battlefield V or Call of Duty: Modern Warfare.
 Windows laptops remain far better for gaming, and no modern Mac challenges that long-standing fact.
Design and display When it comes to the MacBook Air’s chassis, nothing has changed. It’s still a single chunk of aluminum, carved in a slight wedge shape. It’s hard as a rock, perfectly crafted, and still quite attractive in its simplicity. The gold color is a stand-out, but you can’t go wrong with Space Gray, either.
It’s still the thinnest and lightest Mac you can buy at 0.6 inches thick and 2.8 pounds. That’s quite small, though a number of Windows competitors are smaller these days. The XPS 13 , Surface Laptop 3 13, and ThinkPad X1 Carbon are all slimmer and lighter.
Luke Larsen / Digital Trends Part of the problem is Apple’s stubborn refusal to shrink the size of its bezels. The company has pursued extreme measures to shrink the bezels of its phones for years now, even resorting to a notch to house its camera. But here, it’s happily four years out of fashion. That’s not a good look for a design-first company like Apple. This feels even more inexcusable after Apple trimmed the bezel on the 16-inch MacBook Pro.
But the screen housed between those chubby bezels is good. Apple has always offered just one display option for its laptops, and that continues to be an advantage on these lower-priced options. Even at $999, you get a sharp 2,560 × 1,600 screen with great contrast. It’s easily the best laptop screen at that price. You’ll be paying over $1,500 to get a higher-resolution screen from Dell or HP.
With port selection, the Air gives just enough to get you by.
The MacBook Pro screen , of course, still beats the Air when it comes to color reproduction. The Air hits 100% of sRGB and 79% of AdobeRGB, making it plenty colorful for daily use but a bit lacking for photographers and video editors. It also offers a max brightness of just 389. That’s plenty bright under most circumstances, though the XPS 13 and MacBook Pro are brighter.
In port selection, the Air provides just enough to get by — and no more. Both USB-C ports are Thunderbolt 3, meaning they’re fast and can handle multiple 4K monitors no problem. I wish they had at least put one on each side, for convenience sake.
Oh well. Limited ports is a battle Apple has already won, and as long as it has more than one, I’m happy enough.
Battery life Luke Larsen / Digital Trends The MacBook Air was once the king of battery life. Those days are long gone. The lower screen resolution of the Spectre x360 and XPS 13 makes them battery life champs, easily lasting well past a full day of work.
The MacBook Air isn’t bad, but it can’t quite keep up. It’s a couple of hours behind those devices in all our tests, including light web use (nine and a half hours), video playback (10 hours), and heavier applications (three hours). With my usual assortment of Chrome tabs, web apps, Slack, and Spotify, the MacBook Air lasted around six hours on average.
These tests were done on the Core i3 model. I don’t expect the Core i5 model to alter these results much, but I will later update this review with my final testing.
Our take The new MacBook Air is a respectable choice for Mac fans on a budget. The price cut, improved keyboard, and extra storage (now starting at 256GB) are all great quality-of-life improvements. Its performance remains sub-par, however, no matter the configuration you choose.
Are there any alternatives? Apple has slowly lowered the price of the MacBook Air over the past couple of years, and that positions it much better against the competition. The $999 dual-core configuration has direct competition with Dell’s XPS 13, which also uses a dual-core Core i3 processor. Many premium laptops don’t offer lower-powered configurations.
Laptops like the ZenBook 13 UX333 or the HP Spectre x360 will serve you better battery life and performance for less money, though you’ll give up the screen resolution and the high-end build quality.
If you’re set on a Mac, the MacBook Pro 13-inch is also an option. Its screen and processor are a big step up and it is still the better choice for photographers. Unfortunately, the keyboard is the older butterfly-mechanism version, and it’s expensive to upgrade storage or RAM.
How long will it last? Apple laptops have a strong reputation for quality, and Apple is more likely than other manufacturers to support products when issues arise. This makes the MacBook Air a good bet if you plan to hold on to it for five years or more.
While its performance is already behind the curve, it should remain adequate if your everyday use consists of web browsing, basic productivity, and online streaming.
Should you buy it? Yes. This is a solid option for Mac buyers who want an affordable daily driver.
Editors' Recommendations Here’s more proof that Apple is wrong about MacBook memory MacBook Pro M3: Should you choose the M3, M3 Pro, or M3 Max? How to watch Apple’s ‘Scary Fast’ Mac launch event if you missed it I saw the new Space Black MacBook Pro, and it’s stunning The M3 Max makes the MacBook Pro look like a nearly unbeatable laptop Apple Laptop Reviews Product Reviews Computing Apple's unexpected "Scary Fast" event has wrapped, and the 30-minute presentation was packed full of announcements. Headlining the showcase was Apple's new M3 chip, which is showing up in a variety of devices in just a week from now.
We have the lowdown on everything Apple announced at its unprecedented fall event, which kicks off the third generation of Apple's silicon with two major product updates.
M3 family of chips Computing I know plenty of people walk into Apple Stores and buy a MacBook right off the shelf because they need one. I get it.
But if you're considering a purchase of a MacBook Pro, in particular, it'll really pay off to pump the brakes. Apple is holding a surprise product launch event next Monday, and if the rumors are to be believed, all three MacBook Pros are going to get updated. Upgrading all three at once would be an unprecedented way to upgrade these laptops for Apple as it simultaneously launches the M3, M3 Pro, and M3 Max chips.
Computing Apple’s “Scary Fast” event is just around the corner, and we already know Macs will be the focus. But a claim has just been made that Apple will dedicate much of the October 30 show to Mac gaming, which could be good news for anyone who enjoys playing games on Apple’s computers.
That’s the assertion made by MacRumors, and the news outlet puts forward several pieces of evidence to back up its ideas. In the end, it makes a lot of sense -- but there’s still no definitive proof.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
