Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best all-in-one computers for 2023 By Jon Martindale Close All-in-one computers provide everything your average consumer might need in a single package, nixing the need for a standalone desktop in favor of a monitor-toting piece of PC hardware. They come in an array of styles, offering everything from 1080p touchscreens and 5K resolution to robust sound and high-end Intel Core processors. Each also typically comes bundled with a keyboard and mouse.
Most target the premium market with a sleek, streamlined design, yet recent offerings continue to push the boundaries of a what a budget-based PC is capable of. Consumers pay for this style and convenience in terms of performance, and while the best all-in-one computers don't pack the processors or video cards some enthusiasts demand, they're efficient enough for most everyday tasks.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
More More Image used with permission by copyright holder HP Envy 34 AIO The best all-around AIO computer 12th-gen, eight-core Intel chip Configurations can handle all kinds of work or play Capable GeForce graphics card for gaming Spacious 34-inch display Powerful webcam Specs may be higher than some users really need Expensive Why you should buy this : It's currently the best AIO desktop computer you can buy.
Who's it for : The space-conscious PC user who wants power without a hefty tower.
Why we picked the HP Envy 34 : HP's Envy AIOs have always been impressive machines, but this latest machine effortlessly rises to the top. No need to worry if an AIO will have the necessary power with this model: It comes packed to the brim with excellent specs including an 12th-generation, eight-core Intel processor, 16GB of RAM, and not to mention the expansive 34-inch, 5120 x 2160 resolution display.
No matter what you have in mind for this AIO, it's ready to handle it. That extends to the Nvidia GeForce GTX 3060 graphics card, which can power your gaming adventures, and twin Thunderbolt 4 connections (plus USB-A and USB-C and an SD card reader). Storage comes in with a 1TB PCIe NVMe solid-state drive (SSD), enough for most purposes, and Wi-Fi 6 is supported.
The package also includes a magnetic webcam that you can attach to five different positions along the monitor depending on what works best for you. Overall, while not everyone needs this full spec package, it's the best AIO we've come across so far.
Digital Trends Apple iMac M1 (2021) Best Apple AIO computer Eye-popping screen Speakers sound amazing Webcam is excellent M1 performance still surprises Lots of fun color options Touch ID built into keyboard Lame port selection The Magic Mouse is still annoying Why you should buy this : It's the most powerful iMac that Apple has ever released, and the new color options are striking.
Who's it for : Anyone that wants a simple AIO with enough power to handle most tasks.
Why we picked the Apple iMac M1 : Apple's 2021 update to the iMac brought us a colorful, 24-inch version of the popular all-in-one, now equipped with Apple's own M1 processor chip. The new, extra-thin design comes with a variety of color options, but the real star here is the 4.5K, 4480 x 2520 resolution screen for incredibly distinct images (not to mention 100% in the sRGB ranges and 90% in the AdobeRGB range for color). As always, it's an excellent option for artists and designers -- as long as you don't mind working with MacOS.
In addition to Apple's powerful M1 chip (which is indeed an upgrade compared to past smaller iMacs), this iMac also has a seven-core GPU (upgradeable to eight cores), 8GB of RAM, and up to 512GB of storage. The base model comes with two Thunderbolt 4/USB4 ports, but upgraded models add USB-A and Gigabit Ethernet ports, too.
The downside is that the only option for the iMac M1 version is the smaller 24-inch model, which does cut down on display room. The larger 27-inch iMacs have Intel Core i9 chips that are powerful, but they're not a patch on the newer Apple M1.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Apple iMac 5K 27-inch Best 27-inch Apple AIO Better storage and RAM options Improved graphics Vastly improved performance Nano-texture glass is revolutionary Speakers and webcam are top notch Outdated design No Apple Silicon Why you should buy this : It's the most powerful 27-inch iMac you can buy.
Who's it for : Apple fans that want a 27-inch AIO and can't wait for a new model.
Why we picked the Apple iMac 5K 27-inch : Apple has moved to its own M1 silicon on the 24-inch iMac, but the 27-inch model with a 5K screen is still using Intel chips. Although hotter and more power-hungry than its M1 counterpart, the 27-inch iMac is still the best 27-inch all-in-one around -- at least until Apple refreshes the model with its own chip.
You don't have the same color options, but the iconic silver design of the iMac looks as good as ever. Under the hood, you're looking at up to a 10th-gen Intel Core i7 processor with eight cores, up to 128GB of memory, 512GB of storage, and critically, an AMD Radeon Pro 5500 XT. The 27-inch iMac isn't a gaming machine, but the dedicated GPU gives it some thin gaming legs to stand on.
If you're worried about support, don't -- Apple has already said it's dedicated to support Intel machines for many years to come, including the 27-inch iMac 5K. The Intel chip inside this model may run hotter, but it shreds through almost any task put before it. Compared to the previous generation, we found improvements of up to 48% in some tasks.
The iMac Pro is a more powerful machine, but it's much more expensive, too. This machine comes with a Xeon CPU instead of the Intel Core i7 processor, and that change represents a big price increase. You'll spend at least $3,800 for a refurbished iMac Pro, and as much as $7,200.
More Dell Dell Inspiron 27 7720 Best AIO family computer Great family-ready AIO design Plentiful connection options Wi-Fi 6E ready Latest-generation CPU This jack-of-all-trades AIO may not be enough for some Why you should buy this : It's a solid budget all-in-one that packs the latest hardware.
Who's it for : Home office users who want the power of an Ultrabook in the form of an all-in-one.
Why we picked the Dell Inspiron 27 7720 : The Inspiron 27 7720 model from Dell is perfect if you need an AIO computer that the whole family can enjoy. It costs barely more than our budget options but has a top-notch appearance, and it offers lots of up-to-date high-performance hardware for every family member.
Dell's most recent Inspiron AIO PC showcases an HD 27-inch InfinityEdge screen that transitions to a more compact display and slender bezels. Behind this display are the most current Core i7-1355U processor by Intel, 16GB of RAM, and a PCIe NVMe SSD with a storage capacity of 512GB (along with a 1TB storage hard drive). The configurations also include Nvidia’s subtle GeForce MX550, which opens up casual gaming and basic 3D rendering-.
This computer is ideal for those who need lots of connectivity. It has four USB-A ports, one USB-C port, and HDMI output and inputs. It also features an SD card reader, wired Ethernet, Bluetooth version 5.3, a pop-up webcam, and Wi-Fi 6E support for faster and more reliable networking. The 27-inch HD display is attractive and colorful, though not the most detailed at this size.
Image used with permission by copyright holder HP EliteOne 840 G9 Best business AIO 12th-gen Intel processor Comes with Wolf Pro Security Web conferencing features Expensive Why you should buy this : HP's AIO has the latest processor and comes with excellent security options.
Who's it for : Businesses willing to pay a bit more for an AIO hub for serious work.
Why we chose the HP EliteOne 840 G9 : Businesses and remote work employees willing to spend a bit more will be more than happy with this upgraded HP AIO. It’s stacked with serious specs, including a 12-core 12th-gen Intel chip, 16GB of RAM, and a 512GB SSD. The 24-inch screen also includes touchscreen capabilities, something that’s hard to find in many AIOs.
The EliteOne is also made for remote meetings, with HP Auto Frame and other webcam benefits to keep your picture clear while teleconferencing. It also comes with HP Wolf Pro Security, a welcome addition for small businesses looking for built-in security software that they can trust.
Ports for the computer include HDMI 2.0a, USB-A, DisplayPort 1.4, and USB-C. There are also several expansion slots for future upgrades if you decide that your workstation needs more storage capacity or memory.
Lenovo Lenovo IdeaCentre AIO 3i Best budget AIO computer Budget-friendly 16Gb of RAM Easy cable management Specs may be too limited for some tasks Why you should buy this : It's as cheap as all-in-one desktops come.
Who's it for : Families and students who need solid computing power at a reasonable price.
Why we chose the Lenovo IdeaCentre AIO 3i : Lenovo's IdeaCentre line is a healthy mix of affordability and performance. The Intel Core i7-p13620H offers impressive performance, with 10 cores of the latest architectures Intel has made. There's enough power for juggling both work and play, while the 27-inch FHD display saves on space while offering minimalistic cable management options in the back.
This particular model comes with 16GB of RAM and 512GB of SSD storage space, although there are cheaper models with less. Work-friendly features like the 720p webcam with a built-in privacy shutter make it a great choice for remote work situations at a lower cost than many all-in-ones.
Ports, however, are somewhat limited on the IdeaCentre AIO 3: There are two USB-A 3.2 Gen 2 and two USB-A 2.0 connections, but no USB-C options, and nothing like the advanced USB4 ports that the iMac M1 can offer. An HDMI port and a Gigabit Ethernet port are also included.
Arif Bacchus/ Digital Trends HP Chromebase All-in-One Best Chrome OS AIO Speedy Chrome OS AIO design in includes vertical screen mode Touchscreen capabilities No USB-C Why you should buy this : It's a desktop Chrome computer with a unique, affordable design.
Who's it for : Students, apartments, and homes that need a multipurpose, speedy desktop.
Why we chose the HP Chromebase All-in-One : A Chrome-based desktop has several advantages: It's affordable, speedy to start up, and offers an easy-to-learn experience for accomplishing tasks easily. HP's 22-inch Chromebase also adds some interesting features that make this AIO especially versatile: The display is made to quickly flip to a tilted-back vertical position for easier video chatting and remote work/learning. It's a good combination with the touchscreen capabilities as well, allowing you to quickly swipe through searches or use apps the way you are most comfortable with (a camera shutter and parental controls are included).
Inside this HP Chromebase All-in-One, you'll find a 10th-gen, dual-core Intel Core i3-10110U processor, 16GB of RAM, and a 256GB PCIe NVMe SSD drive for storage. Wi-Fi 6 and Bluetooth 5.0 are both supported here, and there's USB-C for power delivery, DisplayPort 1.2 for more complex monitor connections, and a SuperSpeed USB-A port. Communication is enabled with a 5-megapixel cam and mic array, along with dual 5W speakers.
More Lenovo Lenovo Yoga AIO 9i Best high-end AIO High-end Intel 13th-generation CPU Bright 4K display Lots of storage space Included keyboard and mouse Wi-Fi 6E support No dedicated graphics chip Overkill for most users Why you should buy this : It's the most powerful all-in-one desktop available today.
Who's it for : Students, professionals, and creatives who don't need a GPU.
Why we chose the Lenovo Yoga 9i : The Lenovo Yoga 9i is the only AIO available today with an Intel Core i9-13900H CPU, giving it a whopping 14 cores -- six performance, eight efficient. When paired with 16GB of fast DDR5 memory and a terabyte of NVMe SSD storage, it is a supremely fast machine that's able to chew through professional and creative tasks with ease.
Transcoding video? No problem. Archiving large file directories? Easy. This is an all-in-one that will breeze through any task you set for it. It'll look good doing it, too, thanks to the bright and colorful 4K display. This IPS panel has great viewing angles and 100% support for sRGB, making it great for watching HDR movies.
There's full support for Gigabit Ethernet and Wi-Fi 6E for fast networking, and you get Bluetooth 5.1. Physical ports include USB-A, USB-C 3.2 Gen 2, and a USB4 port, giving you full performance on some of the latest and greatest USB accessories and external drives. There's no dedicated graphics chip, though, so don't expect to do much beyond casual gaming.
Frequently Asked Questions These computers combine the PC “tower” — where the integral chips, cards, and drives of the computer reside — with the monitor display. The result looks a lot like a hefty monitor but does not require a PC tower to operate. This is great for saving on space and getting everything in one box, but you give up the ability to upgrade specific parts of the computer like the monitor or certain performance aspects. The iMac is a classic example, but as you can see from our list, many brands produce all-in-one models.
They are compact computers that help save on space, especially if you don’t really have the space for a PC tower. Since the tower and monitor are combined, there are also fewer cables to manage. If you are in a situation where you need to move your desktop computer around frequently, it’s much easier to move an all-in-one. You also don't have to worry about picking individual accessories, as AIOs tend to ship with their own keyboards, webcams, and mice. They also tend to have larger displays that function well for work or general family use.
You’re generally stuck with the display that the computer comes with, and upgrading the display typically means buying a new computer entirely. A PC tower allows users to choose their own upgrades for specific components and is designed to make those upgrades as effortless as possible. But on an all-in-one, upgrading specific components may be difficult or impossible. There’s also no room for adding or improving cooling systems, another reason they aren’t common gaming computers.
However, some parts of AIOs may be upgradeable depending on the model. Many iMacs, for example, have extra slots to increae memory. Picks like the HP EliteOne come with expansion bays for a variety of add-ons. But you're still stuck with components like the screen.
All-in-one computers make great whole-household computers or workstation computers for straightforward tasks and larger displays for multitasking. They can also handle demanding software if you choose models with the appropriate specs. As you can see with picks like 5K iMac, they are popular options for artists and designers, too.
However, if you prefer to upgrade your computer components over time or want a more specialized display, pick a traditional desktop PC instead. That means all-in-ones aren’t for gamers, users who need true ultrawides, or those who want to keep their PCs for as long as possible. They also may not be the best choice for entertainment center PCs.
Look for a large, detailed display. This is one of the great advantages of all-in-ones, especially if you have specific visual requirements for your work/play and you won’t be able to replace the display later like you can with other PCs. Look for around 24 to 27 inches to start with and 4K resolution if you have any interest in a higher resolution. Some are touchscreens, but this feature isn’t always important on an all-in-one.
It’s better to go big on specs. A powerful processor and extra RAM will help the all-in-one stay useful for a longer lifespan. If you’re doing any video editing or want your all-in-one to serve as a gaming PC, make sure you have a capable GPU as well. Remember, all these specs are hard or impossible to upgrade on an all-in-one, so you keep what you buy.
Don’t worry as much about storage: A good external hard drive makes a great accessory for an all-in-one for both backups and extra storage.
Choose the operating system you like. Apple’s iMacs are some of the best all-in-ones around, but you may need to shop for a different option if you prefer the Windows operating system, and vice versa.
If you're interesting in saving money on a computer, take a look at a our list of the best desktop computer deals/internal-link]. And if you're still doing research, you may want to familiarize yourself with our picks for the [internal-link post_id="806930" sponsored="false"]best desktop computers.
Editors' Recommendations The best early all-in-one PC Black Friday deals available now This iMac-style Dell all-in-one PC is discounted to $500 right now Best desktop computer deals: The cheapest PC deals today These are the best ultrawide monitors you buy in 2023 9 best monitors for 2023: tested and reviewed Best Products Dell Microsoft PC Computing A 17-inch laptop gives you a larger screen and keyboard, plus additional space for more powerful components. That makes this size a great choice for designers, gamers, and professionals who want a mobile laptop that provides impressive specs or excellent versatility.
To help you make your choice, we've collected the best 17-inch laptops for 2023, starting with our overall favorite, the Dell XPS 17. With its modern components and discrete graphics, it's ready for anything.
Computing AMD and Intel have fought for supremacy for decades, duking it out in a bid to make the best processors you can buy. The competition is fierce, and that's a great thing for PC enthusiasts. In 2022, the list of the best CPUs is larger than ever and packed with options from Team Red and Team Blue.
Intel's flagship Core i9-13900K tops our list, but there are great options regardless of your budget or purpose.
Computing Even while facing downAMD's Ryzen 7000 processors, Intel has come out on top with its Raptor Lake CPUs. The best Intel processor you can buy right now is the Core i5-13600K, but in a strange change of pace, Intel has several excellent options on the market right now.
From high-end gaming CPUs to some recent 12th-generation CPUs that are under $100, Intel has a compelling option at just about every price point. The AMD versus Intel war rages on, but for fans of Team Blue, these are the best Intel CPUs you can buy today.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
