Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best cheap printers for 2023 By Jon Martindale Close In an age where digital documentation often takes center stage, the need for a reliable and cost-effective printer remains undeniable. Whether it's for last-minute homework assignments, important work documents, or cherished family photos, finding the best affordable printer can save both money and time. In this article, we've listed some of the best affordable printers. Whether you're a student on a tight budget, a small business owner looking to cut costs, or simply someone seeking an affordable printing solution, we've got you covered with our top picks for budget-friendly printers that deliver quality without breaking the bank.
More More More More Image used with permission by copyright holder Canon Pixma iP8720 Best affordable printer for budding photographers Print sizes up to 13x19 Excellent output quality Great for photo and everyday printing Slightly dark skin tones Large, heavy Why you should buy this: Canon's Pixma iP8720 can print standard photos to wide formats for larger prints.
Who it's for: The budding photographer and home crafter.
Why we picked the Canon PIXMA iP8720: The Pixma iP8720 is an excellent, home-friendly printer that combines great features at an affordable price. The quality is good enough for photo printing, and it can accommodate 13x19 prints if you need wider formats. The paper tray holds 120 sheets, and our tests showed that printing speeds were around 13.3 pages per minute (ppm) for black and white, while Canon claims up to 10.4 ppm for color.
Overall, the Pixma iP8720 is a remarkable printer and a great pick, especially for those who need to print flyers and other slightly larger materials. If you're a professional photographer or earnest amateur, however, you may want a printer with higher image quality.
This printer also supports both USB connections and Wi-Fi, with added support for Apple AirPrint and Google Cloud Print.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Canon TS302 Best affordable compact printer Incredibly affordable Alexa compatibility Super compact design Not made more heavy-duty printing projects Why you should buy this: Those looking to save as much money and space as possible.
Who it's for: Budget hunters, college kids, anyone who rarely uses a printer but still needs one.
Why we picked the Canon TS302: If you really want to put the “budget” in budget printer, this Canon model is for you. It’s the most affordable printer we can currently find on the market and sports an incredibly compact design that can fit nearly anywhere with the paper tray down. That makes it ideal for those short on space who won’t be using a printer much but might still need one from time to time — like those living in dorms or working from home.
But although it’s super small and super cheap, this printer still includes a scanning function, as well as a measuring grid on top for more physical projects. It’s also compatible with Alexa for quick voice commands, and generally designed to work via app (although a few onboard controls are included). It’s the best choice for maximum savings if your needs are simple.
More The best gaming PC Black Friday deals you can shop right now The best 3D printer Black Friday deals from only $159 10 best laptops of 2023: tested and reviewed Image used with permission by copyright holder Epson WorkForce WF-3820 Best affordable home office printer Multi-function capabilities for scanning, copying, and printing Fast print speeds for price point Wireless printing support Vibrant color printing No fax capabilities Why you should buy this: Epson's affordable WorkForce Pro WF-3820 can print at a zippy 21 pages per minute with fast-drying ink.
Who it's for: Offices that need fast prints based on reliable pigment-based ink.
Why we picked the Epson WorkForce Pro WF-3820: Like the WorkForce Pro WF-3720 before it, Epson's new WF-3820 is an all-in-one multifunction printer that can make scans, copies, and prints. Upgrades include faster 21 pages-per-minute black-and-white prints and 11 pages-per-minute color. Epson uses its new vibrant DURABrite Ultra instant-dry pigment-based ink for this printer, so you're going to get smudge-free results. This makes the Epson WorkForce Pro WF-3820 ideal for offices that need a reliable, speedy inkjet to handle their document needs.
The printer comes with a 2.7-inch color touchscreen to navigate the settings and controls, like its predecessors, and it relies on Wi-Fi for wireless printing. There is an automatic document feeder for double-sided scans, and the printer can also handle duplex printing. All that's missing here is the fax, which most homes and businesses may not require anymore.
More Image used with permission by copyright holder Brother MFC-J4535DW Best affordable workgroup printer Affordable cost per page printing Multifunction capabilities for an all-in-one solution Large cartridges will last long Text printing could be a little crisper at smaller fonts Why you should buy this: Brother's MFC-J4535DW relies on large cartridges to make volume printing more cost-effective.
Who it's for: Home users who don't want to spend a fortune for each color print.
Why we picked the Brother MFC-J4535DW Tank Printer: At $220, Brother's MFC-J4535DW Tank All-in-One Color Inkjet Printer may not sound like an inexpensive purchase, but keep in mind that this printer comes with up to a year of free ink included in the box. Despite the "tank" in its name, however, the Brother MFC-J4535DW uses cartridges and not ink tanks, so replacements, rather than refills, are necessary to keep running. That said, printing is kept affordable if you opt for the high-yield XL-branded INKvestment cartridges, which give you higher outputs at lower costs. Two trays that store up to 400 sheets ensure you won't run out of paper in the middle of a job. And to make your paper supply last even longer, automatic duplex printing is also supported.
The printer comes with a 2.7-inch touchscreen for control, and it also supports cloud printing as well as smartphone printing with built-in Wi-Fi and NFC wireless standards. Faxing, scanning, and copying are also supported on this multifunction printer. A front-facing USB port makes it convenient to print from a flash drive.
More Image used with permission by copyright holder HP M209dwe LaserJet Best affordable monochrome laser printer Crisp laser quality Fast print speeds suited for documents Speedy duplex printing Easy to use companion smartphone app for scanning No color printing support Why you should buy this: HP's LaserJet M209dwe sacrifices color for fast, economical monochrome laser prints.
Who it's for: Budget-oriented homes and businesses primarily interested in printing black-and-white documents.
Why we picked the HP LaserJet M209dwe: HP's monochrome LaserJet M209dwe comes in a very compact size, making it ideal for home and home office settings. Just don't let its compact design fool you — this printer is advertised with the fastest two-sided printing for its class at 30 pages per minute for black-and-white jobs. The first page is ready in as little as 6.9 seconds, ensuring you won't have to wait long for your document to start printing. Duplex printing is also supported to save on paper, and you can print on a variety of media types, including envelopes, labels, yardsticks, postcards, and even velum paper.
The printer comes with an Instant Ink subscription, giving you the first six months of free ink toner. After that, you can cancel the subscription and buy replacements a la carte, or rely on the company's worry-free subscription to ensure you'll have enough toner for your print jobs. This printer works with HP's robust HP Smart smartphone app, giving you added flexibility to securely send a fax, print documents from cloud services like Dropbox, or even scan directly to Google Drive or your email.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Brother INKvestment Tank MFC-J1205W Best affordable tank printer Affordable price Low running cost with year-long tank cartridges Reliable print quality Wireless printing support No ADF No touchscreen display Why you should buy this: You need an economical printer to handle basic color printing needs Who it's for: Home users who may need occasional printing Why we picked the Brother INKvestment Tank MFC-J1205W: Brother's affordable INKvestment Tank MFC-J1205W is a simple, modern printer that produces reliable quality color prints in a sleek design. Free of many of the bells and whistles of more advanced offerings, the MFC-J1205W doesn't come with features like a touchscreen control or automatic document feeder, but this helps to keep the design charming and elegant. There's still a flatbed scanner up top for color copies and scans, and built-in wireless printing support makes this a flexible printer for the smart home office.
The highlight of this printer is its large-capacity ink cartridges. While not a true tank printer, like the Epson model on our list, Brother's high yield ink can last for up to a year of moderate printing needs, so you're saving time and money on replacement ink. This printer is a solid choice for those who may need to occasionally print a page or two every so often, but it can scale to moderate volumes for busy homes juggling office documents, homework, and other printing needs.
Kodak Kodak Step Instant Printer Best affordable photo printer for mobile users Competitive running cost Wireless connectivity Quality photo prints Affordable Micro-USB charging Why you should buy this: Cheap and simple pocket-sized photo printer Who it's for: Smartphone photography lovers Why we picked the Kodak Step Instant Printer: The Kodak Step Instant Printer offers an economical solution for photo printing. It easily connects to your smartphone, allowing you to print your favorite images onto compact 2 by 3-inches Zink prints with adhesive backing. It is small enough to fit inside your pocket or handbag and is fairly simple to operate. The printer can be paired to your smartphone via Bluetooth and the entire printing process is done via the dedicated app which is available for both Android and iOS.
Apart from allowing users to print their favorite photos, the app also lets you edit images. There are a variety of filters, frames and stickers along with adjustment options like brightness, hue, colour temperature and more.
The printer doesn't need any cartridge replacements and Kodak's Zink prints are affordable and fast to process, making it an excellent choice if you want keep your running costs to a minimum. It also features a built-in battery that allows you to print a little over 25 photos before it needs to be juiced. Speaking of which, it comes with micro-USB charging which is probably one of the only drawbacks of this photo printer.
More Frequently Asked Questions That really depends on your personal printing needs, preferences, and budget. Traditionally, inkjet printers come with a lower upfront cost for the printer compared to a comparable laser printer, but replacement ink cartridges on the inkjet can be more expensive over time than toner for laser printing systems. That said, inkjets generally perform better with color printing processes, photographs, and artwork, while laser printers excel at handling documents, spreadsheets, and black-and-white print jobs. These days, however, the price and performance gaps are narrowing — inkjets that use tank cartridges deliver a more affordable cost per page, and laser printers are getting better at printing documents with color graphics.
If you need scanning and copying functionality, you'll want to choose a printer with a scanner. Some printers come with a flatbed scanner, so you can scan papers of varying sizes. Others will come with an automatic document feeder, or ADF, that will automatically feed through what needs to be scanned or copied. More expensive multifunction printers will come with duplex scanning capabilities, meaning the built-in scanner will be able to perform double-sided scans.
If you're on a tight budget, you'll want to look at two things. First, you'll want to choose a printer with a lower upfront cost. These are generally inkjet printers. Second, you'll want to know the cost per page, and this will be particularly important for larger print needs. Cost per page is determined by taking the total cost of the toner or ink cartridge and dividing it by the manufacturer's yield. For example, if ink costs $10 and that cartridge yields 10 prints, your cost per page is $1 per printed sheet. If you're looking at color printers, you'll generally see two or three cost-per-page calculations — there will be a calculation for monochrome prints, for color/mixed printing, and then a third one if it's a printer used for photo printing. Photo cost per page is generally the most expensive, as the printer needs to use a lot of ink for output.
Printer ink costs can be annoying to budget for over time. Some printers handle ink better than others, so you do have a few options. Our Brother INKvestment printer is a great place to start, as it comes with high-capacity ink cartridges designed to last as long as possible. While none quite made our list, Epson's EcoTank printers ditch cartridges altogether and instead give you refillable tanks and bottles of ink to top them off, one of the best ways to save on ink costs.
That will depend on how often you're printing, the volume you're printing, and what types of things you're printing. Toner on a laser printer is generally more expensive, but it will last longer than an ink cartridge on an inkjet. Even with moderate use, inkjet cartridges will last home users a few months or even a year if you're infrequently using your printer. Investing in a printer that supports high-yield cartridges — often designated with an XL branding — or a tank will give you better yields and lower your cost in the long run.
While older printers required a wired USB connection between your printer and a Mac or PC, most modern printers support a variety of wireless protocols. If you need to print using your smartphone or tablet, be sure to select a printer with support for Bluetooth printing, Wi-Fi Direct, or NFC. Most of these printers will also come with a smartphone app that can be used to initiate printing, and iPhone versions of these apps will support Apple's AirPrint standard.
Many of these budget picks work best when used sparingly (the Workforce and Laserjet picks are notable exceptions), and using them all the time may wear them out more quickly. But with proper usage and general upkeep, you can expect any printer to last around three to five years before it starts encountering more than the usual number of problems.
A printer is still important for some activities. You may have documents to print out and physically sign, flyers to print from an email, photos to make a collage or other art, and so on. While it's not common to use a printer every day, they still have a role, which is why a cheap printer is a good choice for many people.
Want to expand your options even more? Take a look at our list of the best printers for a variety of different jobs.
Editors' Recommendations Best Chromebook Black Friday deals on HP, Lenovo, and more Best Black Friday printer deals on laser, inkjet and photo printers Best HP laptop deals: Get a Windows laptop for $199 The best tablets in 2023: top 11 tablets you can buy now These are the best ultrawide monitors you buy in 2023 Best Products Computing With so many options, it can be hard to nail down the best monitor for your desk. We've reviewed dozens of computer displays over the years, and only a select few displays are worth paying attention to.
For our money, it's tough beating the Dell UltraSharp 32 4K. It's a big 4K monitor with a ton of features, but it isn't the right pick for everyone. Read on to see what other monitors we recommend for gaming, home use, esports, and more.
Computing A 17-inch laptop gives you a larger screen and keyboard, plus additional space for more powerful components. That makes this size a great choice for designers, gamers, and professionals who want a mobile laptop that provides impressive specs or excellent versatility.
To help you make your choice, we've collected the best 17-inch laptops for 2023, starting with our overall favorite, the Dell XPS 17. With its modern components and discrete graphics, it's ready for anything.
Computing Any home office or small business will benefit from the addition of the Brother HL-L3230CDW color laser printer. It provides amazing value at its sticker price of $280, so it's a steal for its discounted price of $250 from Amazon. The $30 in savings may not look like much, but it's a nice bonus for this helpful device. We're not sure how long the offer will remain online though, so if you're interested, it's highly recommended that you push through with the transaction as soon as you can.
Why you should buy the Brother HL-L3230CDW color laser printer The Brother HL-L3230CDW color laser printer is featured in our roundup of the best color laser printers as the top option for small businesses. If you're regularly dealing with large print volumes or if you need quick colored prints, this is the device that you want because it has a reliable printing speed of up to 25 pages per minute, and it comes with a 250-sheet paper tray that will minimize the times that you'll need to spend on refills. Speed has always been one of the advantages of laser printers versus inkjet printers, and the Brother HL-L3230CDW color laser printer won't disappoint in this aspect.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
