Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Guides How we test desktop PCs By Luke Larsen Close Image used with permission by copyright holder Desktop PCs come in two flavors. You’ve got prebuilt machines and DIY systems that people build themselves. We review both, whether it’s a fully-configured PC from a company like Dell or HP or the individual components that power the PC you built yourself.
Look and feel What’s inside counts, too The extra mile The test bench Cooling Putting the pieces together But here, we focus on the first case — prebuilt systems that you buy right off the shelf. These range from simple home office computers to maxed-out gaming PCs that glow in all the right places.
Reviewing a desktop is a unique process because there are concerns relevant to them that aren’t relevant to devices like laptops , tablets or smartphones. Here’s how we do it.
GPU prices and availability (Q4 2023): How much are GPUs today? 9 best desktop computers of 2023: tested and reviewed Is your PC acting up? Here’s how to fix it Look and feel A desktop computer usually is placed in a designated spot and stays there, but this does not mean build quality is irrelevant. Consumers long ago grew tired of black and tan mid-towers. Today’s desktops come in all shapes and sizes for all sorts of purposes, whether it be a mini-ITX compact PC or a behemoth gaming battlestation.
We take a careful look at the dimensions of the systems we review so that you know how the PC will fit into your office, home theater or living room. Basic functionality and build quality are key, as well. A good desktop needs to have easily accessible ports. Some products come with panels that cover their optical drives or flip-up front-facing ports. If these exist, they must have a robust feel and simple operation.
Aesthetics are particularly subjective, but we do provide some commentary on them — and a nice selection of high-quality photos. There’s nothing wrong with a little vanity. Desktops are often placed in public areas of a home, such as the living room, and they need to at least look as if they were worth the price paid. Lighting has become important for many potential buyers, so we always comment on how much RGB goodness a system does or doesn’t have — and how customizable it all is, of course.
What’s inside counts, too Jacob Roach / Digital Trends There’s more to a desktop than its external appearance and features, however. Much more. Many desktops, unlike other modern electronics, are still partially or entirely user serviceable — at least, they should be. Processors can be replaced, graphics cards upgraded, and hard drives added. But this is only an advantage if a system is easy to work on.
We open up all the desktops we review and report on the guts. A spacious layout that is free of clutter from various cords is ideal. Small desktops have difficulty because not enough space available, but we like to see that the manufacturer gave at least a second of thought to making the internals clean and easy to work with. Some manufacturers use proprietary parts too, which makes servicing or upgrading a PC much more difficult. On the other side of the spectrum, boutique custom PCs from brands like Origin or Falcon NW put a lot of time into small details like cable management.
Tool-free design features and readily accessible expandability are also a boon. We prefer case panels that pop off with a latch system, hard drives that can be exchanged without hassling with screws and RAM slots that are free for an upgrade. Even small systems can make hard drive swaps a breeze — if they’re properly designed.
Not all desktops are upgradeable, of course. Something like a Mac mini or iMac are popular choices, but they provide almost no ability to expand the system or repair it yourself.
The extra mile Most computers see success because of a combination of great hardware and reasonable pricing, but we can’t judge a PC only by the configuration we’re sent. When reviewing a desktop, we take a careful look at how the manufacturer lets you configure your PC. Are there lots of options? Are they overly expensive? These are all important to consider.
Beyond just price, aspects like software can be both a hazard and a boon, depending on how it’s implemented.
Warranties and peripherals can also be a defining trait. If all other things are equal a system with a 3-year warranty will be a better buy than one with a 1-year warranty. Manufacturers are notoriously stingy with warranty periods, so we always comment when a system offers exceptional service at no additional cost.
The test bench Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Performance is obviously a concern for anyone buying a computer. We put all desktops through a number of benchmarks that provide a way to objectively gauge performance.
Our general CPU benchmarks include a video encode test using Handbrake to run a 4K video through x265 encoding, Geekbench’s single and multi-core tests, and Cinebench R23’s single and multi-core tests. These tests put the processor on maximum attack and give us an idea how a system performs in demanding applications. We’ll also test it on PCMark 10, which gives a very well-rounded look at the PC’s performance across a wide breadth of tasks and applications.
After this is completed we run CrystalDiskMark (or Blackmagic, for Macs), to test each disk drive’s sequential read/write speed.
We wrap up our suite with 3DMark’s Time Spy, Fire Strike, and Sky Diver tests, three synthetic benchmarks that offer a good window into overall graphics performance. If a system is built for gaming we also conduct real-world game tests at 1080p, 1440p, and 4K with titles like Civilization VI , Fortnite , Cyberpunk 2077, Red Dead Redemption 2, and Assassin’s Creed Valhalla.
We also test the system with creative applications, such as the Pugetbench Premiere Pro benchmark.
Now, it should be said that often times, we’re already familiar with how fast a review unit’s CPU and GPU will be as we’ve often already tested them on our own test bench. But how they perform within this specific system is what we’re evaluating, which brings us to cooling.
Cooling Desktops usually do not become as warm as other, smaller PCs, but cooling must still be considered. Some systems are quieter than others, and some offer better cooling of internal components. This is of particular concern for gaming systems, which can become extremely loud and hot during intense use.
To judge how a system is to live with we use a decibel meter and take a measurement of noise from two feet away from the front of the desktop. A reading is taken at idle, during the 7-Zip processor test, and after a ten-minute run of the Furmark graphical stress test. This provides a broad idea of how loud the desktop is under various conditions.
Putting the pieces together Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Desktops are complex products that consist of numerous components. This makes the verdict important, but also difficult to reach. There’s no simple 1+1 formula that can be applied. Every component has an effect on every other.
With that said, we usually reach our verdict through the lens of the desktop’s intended purpose. A budget PC meant for basic computing will not severely penalized if it doesn’t ace our benchmarks, but a high-end workstation with the same failing would be nearly worthless. We try to put ourselves in the shoes of the person who is likely to be buying the system and ask if the computer does what is expected of it — and more.
Pricing and competition are obvious concerns, as well. Our verdicts usually include some market research into the price of similar desktops and their value compared to the system being reviewed. A low price can forgive some — but not all — shortcomings.
Our review process is meant to provide a broad platform on which any given desktop can be judged. We don’t expect every reader to agree with every verdict, but we do hope that you leave more informed than when you arrived.
Editors' Recommendations Best desktop computer deals: The cheapest PC deals today Intel Meteor Lake is coming to desktop, but there’s a big catch The best gaming PCs for 2023: Dell, Origin, Lenovo, and more Refurbished Steam Decks are now official — here’s how to buy one Baldur’s Gate 3 PC performance tested: best settings, DLSS, slow HDD mode, and more PC Computing Alienware's flagship gaming desktop is getting a serious makeover. The new Aurora R16, which is available to purchase now, ditches the angular, obtuse design of Alienware's previous models in favor of a design that feels familiar yet -- if you'll excuse the pun -- alien.
That's clear by looking at an image of the redesigned Aurora R16 above. It's a mid-tower box, much unlike a machine like the Aurora R15, with its massive footprint and large plastic covering that makes it feel much larger than it actually is. the Aurora R16 fits in much better now with the standard crop of gaming desktops, though it still has some unique design choices.
Computing You’ve read our laptop reviews. You’ve read our conclusions. And now you’re wondering how we came to them.
Good question. Reviews often lack context, which is evident in the wildly different scores some laptops receive from different publications. Conflicting opinions can actually make choosing a laptop more difficult if the review’s criteria aren’t made clear.
Computing Monitors don't usually get the limelight, but they're just as important as the components inside your PC. A bad monitor can make even a high-end PC feel like it's several years out of date, while one of the best monitors can make even an aging PC feel like it has a new set of tricks.
Our monitor reviews are designed to help you navigate the vast, overwhelming world of PC displays. Even if you narrow down a price, size, and resolution, you're often bombarded with dozens of options. We're here to help you separate the wheat from the chaff.
Dated Se7en reference Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
