Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Acer Chromebook Vero 514 Review Chromebook vs Laptop Screenshot on a Chromebook Reset a Chromebook Best Chromebooks Chromebook Problems Split Screen on a Chromebook Home Computing Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? HP Chromebase All-in-One 22 review: Taking ChromeOS to new places By Arif Bacchus Close $840.00 Unique, sleek design Great-sounding speakers Highlights versatility of ChromeOS High-resolution webcam with privacy slider Solid performance The screen doesn't feel sharp Ports are inconvenient The included keyboard, mouse are cheap-feeling When you hear ChromeOS, an all-in-one PC is probably not what you think of.
Design Ports Performance Display Speakers and webcam Included accessories Our take This type of desktop form factor is usually reserved for iMacs and Windows systems, but HP’s new Chromebase All-in-One-22 wants to make a case for something different.
HP unveils new IPS Black monitor with one key new feature The new HP Envy 34 all-in-one has a magnetic webcam that’s perfect for streamers HP launches a work-from-home PC to take on the new iMac Sporting a unique stand with plenty of flexibility and an $840 price tag, the HP Chromebase All-in-One is certainly a unique proposition — even if it’s not for everyone.
Design Arif Bacchus/ Digital Trends In setting up the HP Chromebase All-in-One 22 for the first time, I was instantly impressed with the design. It is definitely one of the most unique all-in-ones on the market, though it takes small inspiration from some of HP’s other products.
The biggest thing about the Chromebase’s design that you’re going to notice is the cylindrical shape of the base and the way the screen floats out from it. Cool as it is just to look at, there’s a practical purpose to the design too.
That base houses a speaker system, as well as ports on the back. The entire casing of this base is also enclosed in acoustic fabric. It’s similar to the fabric speakers on the HP Envy 32 — but in a lighter color.
Other than that, the hinge mechanism that lets you turn this Chromebase between the vertical and horizontal position also stands out. It is tucked behind the back of the screen and rotates the display with a subtle soft roll when pushed with your finger or hand. I did notice that the screen is made of plastic, however, so there was a little bit of flex when holding it down to turn things around.
Still, the movement is smooth as butter, and I never thought I’d break this computer. That’s quite important, as HP envisions this as a family computer, for use by multiple people. I do wish that it wasn’t white, though, as it could easily get dirty.
I also was quite surprised with how quickly ChromeOS adapted to the change in screen orientation. It’s fast, almost like turning an iPad around. There’s no lag whatsoever, and ChromeOS knows exactly when this computer is being flipped.
Ports Arif Bacchus/ Digital Trends The HP Chromebase All-in-One 22 comes with a nice set of ports, but they’re located in the wrong place.
The mix includes a headphone and microphone combo, two SuperSpeed USB-C ports, and two SuperSpeed USB Type-A ports. In 2022, Type A is appreciated for things like flash drives or hard drives, as even the new iMacs have ditched this for Thunderbolt 4.
Anyway, there are no physical ports on the monitor portion of the all-in-one. Plugging in a Logitech Bolt dongle for my keyboard and mouse was a bit of a hassle. I needed to stretch my hands to the back of the device or even turn it around to see where the ports are.
Arif Bacchus/ Digital Trends Windows all-in-ones are much better with this. The HP Envy 32 AIO is an example as the ports are at the back of the monitor, right where your fingers can reach. The iMacs are like this, too, with the Thunderbolt 4 ports being tucked right near the power button. Another Windows all-in-one like the Dell Inspiron 27 7790 outmatches this Chromebase, too, as it has a wider range of ports, including an Ethernet jack.
Oh, and there’s no output option and no way for you to use the HP Chromebase All-in-One 22 as a monitor. With ChromeOS being versatile across various device types, it would have been cool to see the option to plug in a tablet or laptop into the back. Again, you can do this with the HP Envy 32 AIO.
Performance Arif Bacchus/ Digital Trends I am reviewing a high-end model of the HP Chromebase All-in-One 22. It comes configured with a 10th-generation Intel Core i3-10110U CPU, 16GB of RAM , and 256GB of storage. This is as powerful as ChromeOS devices get.
A low-end model with an Intel Pentium 6405U processor, 8GB of RAM, and 128GB of storage is also available for $630 as the starting configuration. All models support touch.
You definitely won’t need a lot of power in ChromeOS, which runs on the Chromebase. The operating system is more optimized for web browsing and Android apps, which all performed well in my use.
Arif Bacchus/ Digital Trends Our testing suite of software for ChromeOS devices is more limited than with Windows or Mac PCs. We do, however, use the Android version of Geekbench and the Speedometer 2.0 test. I also tested several Android games for reference, and it was actually quite pleasing to see ChromeOS perform well on the big screen.
Looking at the results, Google and HP might have just successfully ported over ChromeOS to the big screen with this all-in-one. In Geekbench, the Chromebase scored a 768 Single-Core score, and a 2081 Multi-Core score. Then, in Speedometer 2.0, which looks at the performance of a system for web browsing, the Chromebase netted 107 out of a possible high of 140. That score is around what we’ve seen with most Windows laptops and Chromebooks.
These Geekbench scores are also in line with other Intel-based Chromebooks, even if the 10th-generation CPU inside the Chromebase is quite old. As an example, the HP Chromebook x360 14c netted 898 in the single-core test and 2,866 in the multi-core test. It’s still well off the M1 iMac , however, which hits 1,745 in single-core and 7,700 in multi-core.
As for Windows systems, it can’t come close to the HP Envy 32 all-in-one, which has RTX graphics and destroys rivals with a single-core score of 5,808, and a multi-core score of 29,124.
Don’t let those scores fool you though. For my daily workflow and web browsing, the Chromebase tackled 10-plus tabs in Google Chrome without issue. The same applies to Android games like Asphalt 9 and Subway Surfers , which ran pleasantly without any freezing or stuttering.
This is a system that can chug along nicely, at least with the high-end model. You won’t be editing videos or playing AAA titles as you might on a Windows all-in-one, but that’s never been what ChromeOS devices have been for. You’ll be able to enjoy ChromeOS on the big screen and speed through your web-based or Android app-based workflows. This is the benefit of the all-in-one form factor, with no worrying about cables, as you would if you need to connect your Chromebook to a monitor.
Display Image used with permission by copyright holder My colorimeter software doesn’t work on ChromeOS, so testing the display is a subjective task. The FHD 1920 x 1080 resolution panel looks great for multimedia content and Teams or Zoom calls, but struggled a bit beyond that.
When I watched a sample video showcasing vibrant forests and natural environments, the colors popped right out of this display, with a lizard in the foreground looking very bright and vibrant. The contrast also seemed to be decent, with the white background letters of closed captions sticking out against their black background, without appearing gray.
Even brightness seemed decent enough so the movies I was watching didn’t seem too dull when sitting and watching the display from afar in my living room. Only the glossy screen held things back in terms of impressiveness, as I could see my reflection when looking at the display from certain angles.
Web browsing, though, isn’t the best, as the text on the screen doesn’t appear as sharp when you look at it up close. That’s not too surprising given the 1080p resolution on a display this size. I held up my Surface Pro 8 and an Asus Vivobook right next to the display for comparison, and I instantly noticed how much duller the Chromebase’s panel is with certain types of text.
Arif Bacchus/ Digital Trends But all is not lost, as the ability to spin the display around adds to the way you can use the Chromebase. I used it in the vertical position a lot for scrolling through social media or even playing games like Subway Surfers.
 ChromeOS is pretty good at adapting to the change, too, with websites like the New York Times automatically switching to vertical mode, and full-screen Android apps like the Google Play Store also recognizing the change in orientation.
This is something you can’t do on a Windows all-in-one without tweaking many different settings.
Speakers and webcam Arif Bacchus/ Digital Trends At the top of the HP Chromebase is a nifty 5-megapixel webcam. Per my image test, it comes in at the resolution of 2560 x 1994, which is quite detailed. Even when compared to the 720p webcams you’ll see on most Chromebooks and Windows laptops, the quality is great.
The webcam is also wide-angle, so it captures more of the room behind you. I called my friend on Teams using the webcam, and she said I looked clear, even pointing out some scratches she noticed on my hand.
I switched the display around to vertical mode to better focus on my body, and she then said my skin color looked natural, and the room was evenly lit behind me. This is great, as HP envisions this device being used by families for calling, where the best quality and resolution are necessary.
Note that the webcam has a cool privacy shutter, too. If you slide it once, you get to turn off your video but keep the microphone on. Slide it again, and then you mute the microphone and have the webcam off. It’s very reminiscent of what Lenovo did on the 840ThinkPad with the ThinkShutter. Since this might be used as a family computer, I love seeing HP put privacy first.
As for the 5-watt stereo speakers, they really can put on a show, as they are tuned by B&O. I watched episodes of The Simpsons on the HP Chromebase, and with the volume just at around 40%, the audio was super loud and clear, almost better than my dedicated speakers.
Arif Bacchus/ Digital Trends There’s still no dedicated woofer, so you can’t expect much in the bass department. But my favorite songs, like Alicia Key’s Empire State of Mind, still rocked out in the instrumental parts. The audio setup reminds me a lot of the HP Envy 32 All-in-One, which has a giant speaker bar up front.
Included accessories Image used with permission by copyright holder HP includes a matching Bluetooth keyboard and mouse in the box with the Chromebase. Both are not exactly the best quality. While it is great to have them at no extra cost, typing on the keyboard is terrible. Made of plastic, there’s way too much bouncing and bending as I made my way between keystrokes.
The mouse, meanwhile, is uncomfortable and is hard to click and scroll. I very much preferred using my own accessories with this all-in-one.
Our take The HP Chromebase All-in-One 22 is a great device. It ports ChromeOS over to a larger screen on your desktop and gives you a fun way to play Android games, scroll through social media, or enjoy your video calls and music.
Are there any alternatives? In the ChromeOS space, there aren’t currently any all-in-one alternatives for this sub $900 price.
You can pick up the Dell Inspiron 27 7790 for around the same price, or something cheaper like an HP 22 All-in-one PC. Even the M1 iMac only costs a few hundred dollars more.
While the HP Chromebase certainly has some unique features, the M1 iMac will likely provide a more well-rounded experience for the average person.
How long will it last? ChromeOS is typically designed to outlast the life span of a device and the HP Chromebase is built strong, so it should go beyond three years.
Should you buy it? Yes, even though the amount of people who would consider buying something like the HP Chromebase is admittedly low. A Chromebook connected to a monitor you already have is a cheaper and more versatile PC, as is an iMac.
But as a family computer that will have relatively few problems you can’t troubleshoot, the simple approach of the HP Chromebase 22 is surprisingly thoughtful.
Editors' Recommendations This secret Samsung laptop may merge ChromeOS with DeX HP’s new all-in-one PCs include wireless charging stands HP’s new Chromebase All-in-One desktop is a striking iMac alternative How to run ChromeOS in VirtualBox Lenovo’s new all-in-one PC features a swiveling hinge for work-from-home comfort Chromebooks Desktop Reviews Google Chrome Laptops Product Reviews Computing Dell is fully embracing Google’s new business-centered Chrome Enterprise initiative by bringing Chrome OS to its Latitude notebook line. Dell’s Latitude 5400 Chrome and its Latitude 5300 2-in-1 Chrome are the first Chromebook Enterprise laptop and 2-in-1 convertible, respectively. Despite their Chromebook designation, these Latitude products bring all the features of Dell’s Latitude platform -- which has traditionally been based on Windows OS -- to the mix, including upgradeability, serviceability, and easy docking.
We were able to preview Dell’s new Chromebook Enterprise-powered Latitude ahead of their launch at VMWorld, and the user experience is still Chrome OS, so nothing is changing for people who adopt either of these Chromebook Enterprise Latitudes. The main difference with Chromebook Enterprise is the added tools for IT managers to make management and deployment easier.
Computing Lenovo is probably one of the best-known laptop makers, especially since they have an incredibly wide variety of them to choose from. That also means they have an excellent selection of gaming laptops, so you can hone in on something that fits your budget. That's especially the case with the ongoing early Black Friday deals that are seeing laptops being cut down in price across the board. That said, Lenovo's selection of gaming laptops is too wide for us to include all their active deals here, so we've selected some of our favorites for both AMD and Intel CPUs. Also, if you're not sure of where to start, you should check out our list of best Lenovo laptops for some good options.
Best Lenovo Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals (AMD) Lenovo has a wider selection of AMD gaming laptops, which is great if you want to go with something AMD-powered. Unfortunately, there aren't any good deals on Lenovo laptops with both an AMD CPU and GPU, but the selection below is wide enough to pick something that fits your needs a bit better. And, if you want something with an RTX 4090 on a budget, then the AMD version is probably the cheapest for Lenovo.
Computing Printers are complicated machines featuring a mix of plastics, metals, electronics, and components, some of which are potentially flagged as hazardous waste. In 2023, it's more important than ever to be kind to the planet, and there are several environmentally safe ways to dispose of a printer.
Even the best printers in the world can reach the end of their life after several years if ink or toner is no longer available. A well-loved printer can suffer from accumulated wear and tear or damage from a catastrophic power surge that's too expensive to repair.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
