Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing News Nvidia brings the mighty RTX 4090 to laptops at CES 2023 By Monica J. White Close In huge news for laptop gamers, Nvidia’s RTX 40-series is coming to laptops, and despite previous expectations, the new lineup includes something for everyone.
During its CES 2023 keynote , Nvidia revealed that the full range of RTX 4000 cards is coming out. The list includes the RTX 4090 , RTX 4080, RTX 4070, RTX 4060, and even the budget RTX 4050. Here’s everything we know about Nvidia’s new laptop arsenal.
Nvidia Following the successful launch of the RTX 4090 and the RTX 4080 in 2022, Nvidia is now ready to reveal the mobile RTX 40 “Ada” lineup alongside the desktop RTX 4070 Ti.
 The company is trying a different strategy this time around because it’s set to cover a wider range of budgets with its mobile graphics cards.
Nvidia splits its lineup into two sections — mainstream and flagship. The RTX 4090 and RTX 4080 mobile both belong to the flagship sector. Nvidia promises “60 frames per second (fps) surround gaming” at 4K , the capability of 3D collaboration at seamless 4K 60 fps in Nvidia’s Omniverse, and up to two times faster video export.
Nvidia RTX 4090 prices are skyrocketing as stocks run seriously low Asus’ new RTX 4090 shattered GPU overclocking records, and you’ll be able to buy it soon I tested AMD’s RX 7800 XT against Nvidia’s RTX 4070, and there’s a clear winner In the previous generation of graphics cards , the laptop range never went above an RTX 3080 Ti. Now, Nvidia is bringing the flagship to laptops by introducing the RTX 4090M. The GPU comes with 9,728 CUDA cores, a boost clock of up to 2,040MHz, and 16GB of GDDR6 memory.
This is most likely going to be one beefy GPU, and we’re expecting to find it paired with the upcoming Intel Raptor Lake mobile flagship that powers some of the best gaming laptops of the year.
Nvidia Next, we have the mobile version of the RTX 4080. We’ve recently seen it in a leaked benchmark , and it destroyed the competition, winning by 42% when compared to its predecessor, the RTX 3080M. This model is equipped with 7,424 CUDA cores, 12GB of memory, and a maximum boost clock of 2.28GHz.
The mainstream laptops are ruled by the RTX 4070 in its mobile iteration, and there’s quite a large specification gap between the RTX 4080 and the RTX 4070. The 4070 sports 4,608 CUDA cores, a clock speed that maxes out at 2,175MHz, and 8GB of GDDR6 memory. While there’s certainly a drop in specs, the GPU should still have enough gaming power to run many titles, so it might become a popular option for those who want a good laptop without spending an arm and a leg.
Lastly, we have the RTX 4060 and the RTX 4050, which are set to appear in more budget-friendly laptop models. The specifications of the RTX 4060 include 3,072 CUDA cores, clock speeds of up to 2,370MHz, and 8GB of GDDR6 memory, while the RTX 4050 comes with 2,560 CUDA cores, the same maximum clock speed, and 6GB of GDDR6 VRAM.
When it comes to the mainstream sector, Nvidia zones in on the performance per watt, promising to deliver the performance of the RTX 3080 at one-third of the power cost. The laptops are said to be capable of running games at 80 fps on ultra settings at 1440p or completing a 2.5-hour render in just 10 minutes.
Nvidia Instead of the staggered release approach that Nvidia took with its desktop lineup, the RTX 40-series graphics cards are coming to many laptops , and soon. The first such laptops have already been announced as part of CES 2023 , and many of them are set to release as early as February of this year.
Nvidia said that the flagship RTX 4090 and RTX 4080 will arrive first, on February 8, with a price tag of at least $1,999. The RTX 4070, RTX 4060, and RTX 4050 will begin showing up in laptops starting on February 22, priced at $999 and above. We will share more details as they become available.
In addition to mobile GPUs, Nvidia revealed new desktop GPUs, a new GeForce Now tier, and more. Make sure to read our roundup of everything Nvidia announced at CES 2023.
Editors' Recommendations Nvidia’s new GPUs could be right around the corner Acer’s new gaming laptop bring Nvidia RTX 40-series GPUs under $1,000 Nvidia DLSS 3: explaining the AI-driven gaming tech MSI’s new RTX 4090 might finally convince me to buy one Here’s why I’m glad Nvidia might kill its most powerful GPU News CES 2023 GPUs Laptops Tech News Computing Nvidia's RTX 4060 Ti 16GB is here, but you wouldn't know it if you didn't follow GPU news closely. It seems that the GPU might just be so far behind some of the best graphics cards that Nvidia isn't advertising it too much. As a result, early benchmarks are scarce.
MSI has released some benchmarks of its own, comparing the 8GB and the 16GB versions of the RTX 4060 Ti. It turns out that the new GPU might actually be slower. Is this why Nvidia didn't even make its own version of this card? Computing Nvidia’s 40-series graphics cards have gained an unwanted reputation for the unreliability of their 12VHPWR power connectors, with numerous accounts circulating online of connectors melting and destroying GPUs. Now, though, it seems Nvidia might have solved the problem for its RTX 4090 graphics cards.
The idea came to light after a post by prackprackprack on Reddit, with the user asking whether their new RTX 4090 featured shorter sense pins compared to older versions of the card. Shorter pins would mean the power supply couldn’t properly connect to a user’s graphics card and send it higher wattages unless the connector was correctly pushed in.
Computing Nvidia's RTX 4060 Ti 16GB is reportedly just days away from launch, but rumor has it that there may not be a lot of GPUs to choose from. This isn't a sign of another dreadful GPU shortage, though. It's more that the RTX 4060 Ti has very little chance to rank high among the best graphics cards you can buy.
We've just recently seen the release of the RTX 4060, but Nvidia still has another card up its sleeve -- a clone of the existing RTX 4060 Ti that comes equipped with twice the VRAM. However, due to certain factors, the GPU might be doomed to a life of subpar sales and unsatisfying benchmark results.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
