Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Guides CPU, APU, WTF? A guide to AMD’s processor lineup Processors have you perplexed? AMD's lineup of CPUs and APUs explained By Jon Martindale Close Bill Roberson/Digital Trends For more than a decade, AMD played the decidedly second fiddle in the central processing orchestra, always falling behind Intel and forced to compete on value more than anything else. In 2017 though, with the launch of its Ryzen processors, that changed. Today, AMD is a reinvigorated company and a true competitor in the CPU game.
New blood Old guard What about APUs? But that’s not to say its lineup is any more simple. On top of having powerful gaming and multitasking processors throughout the price/performance spectrum, AMD also has a solid offering of Accelerated Processing Units, or APUs, that deliver great graphics and CPU power on one die. It even teamed up with Intel in recent months for a unique competitor for Nvidia’s discrete graphics offerings.
In this guide, we’ll walk you through the various configurations of AMD processors, what they’re good for and why they’ve given the competition something to worry about for the first time in a long time.
The best Ryzen CPU: Which Ryzen processor should you buy? The gamers have spoken: AMD obliterates Intel in CPU sales AMD may be sticking to a controversial choice with Ryzen 8000 Wondering which AMD CPU is right for you? Check out our Ryzen buying guide.
New blood Ryzen CPUs Image used with permission by copyright holder The poster child for the real resurgence AMD experienced in 2017, Ryzen CPUs, based on AMD’s Zen architecture, have proved a force to be reckoned with. They threw down the gauntlet at Intel’s feet in a big way and forced the chip giant to respond in ways we haven’t seen since AMD’s Athlon 64+ chips pushed Intel to move beyond its Pentium 4s.
Although Ryzen chips still tend to fall behind their Intel counterparts in single-threaded performance — and indeed, some games — the multithreaded power of Ryzen chips can be streaks ahead of the competition. They introduced hexacores to the mid-range, with multithreaded support throughout, while the top chips are octacores with a full 16 threads.
 Xtended Frequency Range (XFR) automated overclocking helps bolster clock speeds to more than 4GHz on some chips, and for those who want to go further, they all have unlocked multipliers without paying for the privilege as is the case with Intel chips.
Prices range between $100 and $400 depending on the performance required and if you want even more, there’s always Threadripper.
Threadripper Bill Roberson/Digital Trends If Ryzen CPUs were AMD nipping at the heels of Intel’s Core i5 and i7 CPUs, Threadripper took a full bite of even its Core i9 Extreme Edition chips. Threadripper are Ryzen CPUs taken to the next logical step and it’s a big one, quite literally. Measuring in at 3.1 x 2.2 x .03 inches, Threadripper chips are some of the largest consumer CPUs ever released.
All of that size equates to big performance, with even the weakest of the lineup, the 1900X, packing eight cores and 16 threads under its hood. Look to the 1920X or even the 1950x though, and you’re faced with 12 cores/24 threads and 16 cores/32 threads respectively.
Clock speeds on these chips hit 4.2GHz with XFR enabled and with up to 32MB of level three cache and a full 64 PCIExpress lanes across the range, they show what the true power of Zen hardware is capable of. Once again they are a little weaker on the single-threaded side of the processing coin, but as more software integrates greater support for multiple threads, that will become less relevant over time.
The real kicker when it comes to the Threadripper though, is in the pricing. Comparable Intel Core i9 Extreme processors cost well north of $1,000 and in some cases close to $2,000. Threadripper on the other hand, tops out at $1,000 and can be had for as little as $480.
Kaby Lake G Image used with permission by copyright holder A unique entry in AMD’s lineup of hardware, Kaby Lake G chips are actually a construction of both AMD and Intel together. Although at the time of writing they aren’t available for performance tests, the unique combination of an Intel CPU with an AMD graphics chip on the same die, paired with second-generation high-bandwidth memory (HBM2) has tongues wagging.
Performance isn’t expected to be world-beating, but it could offer real competition for Nvidia in ultra-light gaming laptops , a segment where the green team has typically held the lead.
Old guard FX CPUs AMD All of the FX chips run at high wattage (95-220 watts) on the AM3+ socket, with speeds ranging from 3.8GHz for the FX 4100 to as high as 5GHz for the FX 9590. L2 cache ranges from 4MB to 8MB.
Athlon CPUs AMD You’re unlikely to come across Athlon chips in any new desktop systems, as there are far better alternatives out there if you’re buying new. Second-hand systems may sport an Athlon X4 (quad-core) or Athlon X2 (dual-core) operating anywhere up to 4.2GHz with up to 4MB of level two cache.
What about APUs? AMD’s acquisition of graphics card manufacturer ATI in 2006 boosted the company’s ability to produce and innovate in graphics hardware. While it fell behind rivals Intel in terms of CPU power, the integration of its own graphics chips with its CPUs to form APUs meant that it could compete in the more small-form-factor spaces.
As such, APUs are often intended for smaller and more energy-efficient machines.
Ryzen Mobile with Vega Image used with permission by copyright holder The newest entry in AMD’s APU range, Ryzen Mobile with Vega chips were officially released in January 2018. However, they made their debut a few months earlier with the HP Envy x2 which sports the 2500U with Vega 8 graphics, performing very favorably in benchmarks. It showed that a Ryzen CPU with Vega graphics processor (GPU) on the same die can offer performance comparable to an Intel/Nvidia combo with far greater gains in energy efficiency and better pricing.
With higher and lower-end versions of these chips released in January 2018, AMD’s Ryzen Mobile with Vega could prove to be a solid choice for single-chip performance in entry-level gaming and ultra-small-form-factor systems.
A-Series APUs AMD Throughout the line up, CPU cores range from two to four and GPU cores from two to eight. Clock speeds for the CPU cores go as high as 4.3GHz, though most, even the last releases in mid-2017 , don’t go that high. These APUs can’t handle the latest games at high detail settings, but they can play most titles at low-to-medium detail and 1080p resolution.
Buying one today is growing increasingly difficult as AMD shifts its focus to new Ryzen APUs. If you’re dead set on one, make sure to shop around to find the best deal.
Athlon APUs AMD Although capable in their day, this ageing architecture falls far behind the capabilities of more modern hardware.
Older product lines Please note that older AMD CPU lines, like the Sempron and Phenom II series, have been left off of this list as they are no longer sold at most retailers. If you’d like to compare AMD APU and CPU chips directly across product lines and ranges, the company offers a master list of all its chips on its website.
Updated 01/15/2018 by Jon Martindale with Ryzen, Threadripper, Kaby Lake G, and Ryzen on Mobile sections. Deleted some legacy chip descriptions.
Editors' Recommendations The best processors in 2023: AMD and Intel CPUs duke it out What is a CPU? Here’s everything you need to know Here’s everything to consider about buying a CPU in 2023 You probably can’t hit max clock speeds on AMD’s Ryzen 9 7950X There’s a problem with those amazing Ryzen 7000 benchmarks Computing AMD has just announced the upcoming Ryzen 7000 processors, and alongside them, new motherboards that will accommodate the freshly released AM5 socket.
Aside from the already expected high-end X670 motherboards, AMD has also confirmed that B650 and B650 Extreme boards are around the corner too, bringing new levels of performance to a more budget-oriented platform with full overclocking support. Here's what we know about them.
Computing Thanks to a well-known Twitter tipster, we now have one of our first looks at the performance of two upcoming AMD Ryzen 7000 CPUs, the Ryzen 9 7950X and the Ryzen 7 7700X. Thanks to leaked benchmarks, we can compare the new processors to their Ryzen 5000 counterparts.
What's the verdict? So far, it seems that the CPUs have done a spectacular job, beating the previous generation by up to 40%. Can these results be trusted? Computing AMD Ryzen 7000 is just around the corner, and now, we've come to know the rumored specifications of the first four CPUs of the lineup, including the AMD Ryzen 9 7950X, Ryzen 9 7900X, Ryzen 7 7700X, and the Ryzen 5 7600X.
The specs certainly paint a positive picture of the upcoming Zen 4 range, with intensely high clock speeds, huge cache sizes, and a performance uplift that could reach up to 35%. Unfortunately, there might be one letdown for overclocking enthusiasts, as the CPUs will allegedly only allow undervolting.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
