Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Reviews Asus ROG Zephyrus G14 review: AMD drops the mic By Luke Larsen Close $1,450.00 Excellent gaming machine Thin, small, and light Game-changing CPU performance Responsive touchpad Unique lid design Noisy at idle Mushy keyboard No webcam The ROG Zephyrus G14 is unlike any gaming laptop you’ve ever owned. Though it packs an Nvidia RTX 2060, it weighs just 3.5 pounds. It’s not much larger than a 14-inch laptop you’d see issued at work.
Size and portability Processor performance Gaming performance Design and display Keyboard and touchpad Battery life Our take How’s that possible? One very special component is at the heart of the G14: AMD’s Ryzen 9 4900HS.
 This eight-core, sixteen-thread chip is where the magic is.
Lenovo’s new 14-inch gaming laptop beats the ROG G14 in one key way It’s official — AMD’s best gaming CPU is coming to laptops Asus fights to save face after a huge AMD Ryzen controversy The Zephyrus G14 has created a new class of gaming laptop , and starts at just $1,050. But is this new breed of gaming laptop what people want? Size and portability Image used with permission by copyright holder Asus and AMD want the G14 to be a laptop that’s just as portable as any other laptop — one you can take to school, take to work, and play games on everywhere in between.
Laptops like the Razer Blade and MSI GS65 have tried cutting out the thickness from their machines, but they’ve maintained a large screen size — 15 or 17 inches, respectively. That’s where the G14 deviates.
With a 14.0-inch display and thin bezels around the top and sides, a significant amount of girth is cut right out of the body of the laptop. That means the G14 is smaller than most gaming laptops in just about every measure, including weight. At 3.5 pounds, it’s 19% lighter than the 16-inch MacBook Pro and 24% lighter than the Razer Blade 15. The small size helps with weight, as does the magnesium alloy chassis, which is much lighter than full aluminum.
Image used with permission by copyright holder As someone who primarily uses a 13-inch laptop on a daily basis, I was shocked by the G14’s footprint when I opened the box. At just 12.8 x 8.7 inches, its footprint is around 5% smaller than a 13-inch MacBook Pro.
It’s also thin, though it’s matched by the current Razer Blade at 0.70 inches. When open, the G14 does feel thicker than it should due to the lifted hinge, which adds an extra 0.6 inches and improved airflow.
The only gaming laptop that can match the size of the Asus ROG Zephyrus G14 is Razer’s Blade Stealth, which is a 13-inch laptop with up to a GTX 1650 GPU. It’s significantly smaller, but its graphics and CPU options are much more limited as well. The Zephyrus G14 is in a class of its own.
Processor performance The unit I tested rings up at $1,450, and sits right in the middle of the configuration stack.
The Zephyrus G14 is the launch vehicle for AMD’s Ryzen 4000 chips. in particular the Ryzen 9 H-series eight-core chips meant for powerful laptops and gaming machines.
The Asus ROG Zephyrus G14 doesn’t use the standard 45-watt CPU, but instead opts for a specialized 35-watt variant known as the Ryzen 9 4900HS, along with 16GB of RAM (configurable up to 32GB). The “S” stands for slim, so it can be cooled within the small chassis of the Zephyrus G14.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Don’t worry. That doesn’t mean performance is handicapped. This Ryzen processor is insanely fast, especially if you feed it a task that can use its eight cores and 16 threads. That includes content creation, whether it’s 3D modeling or video editing.
For this kind of workload, it’s hardly worth comparing to other gaming laptops, most of which use a six-core Intel Core i7-9750H. They just can’t keep up. The eight-core Core i9-9880HK is a better competitor, though it’s mostly reserved for high-end content creation laptops like the Dell XPS 15 , MacBook Pro 16-inch, or ThinkPad X1 Extreme.
For a laptop this small and light, the G14 has record-breaking performance.
But here’s the crazy thing. Whether it’s in benchmarking or real-life tests, the Asus G14 still wins over laptops with an Intel Core i9-9880HK processor. It beats the 16-inch MacBook Pro in Cinebench R20 multi-core by a whopping 25%. It even encoded a 4K file in Handbrake 11% faster, matching the performance of the Dell XPS 15.
You’ll find more power in thicker workstation-type machines with the Core i9, but for a laptop this small and light, the G14 is record-breaking.
However, there’s a reason companies don’t put expensive, sweltering Core i9s in just any old laptop. First of all, all eight cores can’t be used efficiently by most games, so that won’t do you much good. Then there’s an obvious thermal problem that Asus and AMD haven’t properly dealt with. The Zephyrus G14 is a loud little laptop. When playing games or running heavy applications, it’s distracting. But that’s forgivable.
My problem is that even at idle (and in Silent mode), the Zephyrus G14’s fans are constantly whirring. The result is an irritating coil whine that never goes away. That reduces my desire to use the G14 as a laptop I want to use every day.
Gaming performance My Asus ROG Zephyrus G14 review unit has an Nvidia RTX 2060 for graphics, with options for the GTX 1660 Ti and GTX 1650 in cheaper configurations. The G14 is the smallest laptop to include an RTX 2060, a graphics card about as powerful as a desktop GTX 1070 video card. The result is fluid, responsive gaming in just about every title I tried.
Battlefield V , Fortnite , and Civilization VI all played at well over 60 frames per second (FPS) in 1080p at maxed-out settings. That is on par with laptops like the Dell G7 15, which is 2 pounds heavier. It beat the same RTX 2060 in the ROG Zephyrus M in every game, despite being lighter and smaller in almost every regard.
Image used with permission by copyright holder When you turn the settings down a bit, performance truly shines.
Fortnite landed at 118 FPS, while Civilization VI hit 132. It’s consistently 10 FPS behind the Razer Blade, which we tested with a more powerful GPU, the RTX 2070 Max-Q.
Fast-paced shooters like Battlefield V are a great fit for the Zephyrus G14, which comes with a fast 120Hz refresh rate display. And 98 FPS on Medium and 70 at Ultra in Battlefield V are not a bad look. The G14 even makes a tough game like Assassin’s Creed: Odyssey playable, managing 64 FPS at High settings.
It can’t be overstated how big of a deal this is for AMD.
 The company isn’t often featured in laptops this powerful, nor in one this ambitious.
Design and display Image used with permission by copyright holder Asus ROG Zephyrus laptops of recent years share a look. They’re black and chunky, laden with hints of RGB throughout.
The Asus ROG Zephyrus G14 stands out. The laptop made headlines at CES 2020 with its AniMe Matrix Display design on the cover, where LEDs light the laptop’s display lid with patterns and designs. You can even customize them to display text, animations, or logos of your choice.
It’s a cool feature that’ll cost you an extra $500, and my review unit didn’t include it. But even the standard white version, without the AniMe Matrix Display, is beautiful. The matrix of dots adds a splash of interest, and the white color is still unique in its own right.
That said, the G14’s design doesn’t feel cohesive. The lid is white, the keyboard deck and chassis is gray, and the bezels around the display are black. It feels like parts from a few different laptops stitched together into one device. The all-gray option fares a bit better.
The speakers could have used some more gusto.
The display is a 1,920 x 1,080 resolution IPS panel. It’s nothing special in terms of brightness of contrast, but doesn’t have any major weaknesses, either. Following the trend we’ve seen lately, it features accurate colors and a decent color gamut, showing 77% of the AdobeRGB color space.
The speakers, though, could use some more gusto. I had high hopes, as the G14 includes a pair of upward-facing tweeters and two woofers at the hinge. They’re loud enough, but a modern iPhone sounds better. Between the speakers and the coil whine, you’ll want to pair the G14 with a decent set of headphones.
Keyboard and touchpad Image used with permission by copyright holder The inputs are a mixed bag. Let’s start with the good stuff. The touchpad is excellent, which surprised me. A touchpad in a gaming laptop this good is hard to find, since many manufacturers assume you’ll be using an external mouse. Not here. That’s a good call, since the Asus ROG Zephyrus G14 is small enough to use as an everyday laptop.
Typing on the Zephyrus isn’t a slog, but there’s room for improvement.
The keyboard is also spacious, offering the typical ROG layout, with keys like volume control inserted above the function row. Larger ROG laptops include extra keys along the right side, but they’ve been left out here. This is smart, as I’d rather have a comfortable layout than a page up and page down key.
While typing isn’t a slog, there’s definitely room for improvement. Key presses have a lot of travel, but the bottoming out action is mushy. It makes for an imprecise typing experience that grows weary over time. The keyboard backlighting is also limited. It’s a single-zone and not customizable, which is rare in a gaming laptop these days. The backlighting that is offered is uneven, lighting some keys better than others.
The power button is located above the standard layout and includes a fingerprint reader built-in. That’s important because, strangely, the Zephyrus G14 doesn’t include a built-in webcam. That means no Windows Hello facial recognition, and no Zoom calls. I get the idea — this isn’t a laptop made for video calls. Still, with its potential crossover appeal as a content creation and business laptop, it’s an odd thing to leave out.
Battery life Gaming laptops aren’t known for battery life, even when you aren’t gaming. The Zephyrus G14 doesn’t change that, though it does last longer than other gaming laptops. The G14 managed just under 6 hours under a light web-browsing load. That doesn’t compare well to a modern ultrabook like the XPS 13 or HP Spectre x360 , which can last up to 10 hours on the same test.
However, for a gaming laptop, it’s at the top of its class. It’s a half hour more than the Dell G7 Gaming Laptop and the Razer Blade, and hours ahead of laptops that have G-Sync like the Zephyrus M and Alienware M15.
On more CPU-intensive tests, the Zephyrus G14 fares even better. It lasted 4 hours in the Basemark battery test, which provides a view of battery life when running heavier applications. Add 10 hours of local video playback on one charge and you have the best battery life you can get out of a gaming laptop.
Our take The Asus ROG Zephyrus G14 challenges other thin gaming laptops, like the Razer Blade. The G14 offers more than enough power for most PC gamers. On top of that, thanks to its eight-core processor, it’s one of the best content creation and video-editing laptops you can buy at this price.
Does it also work as a laptop in its own right? The constant hum of the fans and lack of a webcam aren’t ideal for everyday laptop usage, however, the G14’s adequate battery life and display make it a good choice for work and travel.
Are there any alternatives? No gaming laptop is as small and powerful as the Zephyrus G14. If you go less powerful and even smaller, you can opt for something like the Razer Blade Stealth.
When you move into the world of 15-inch laptops , your options expand quickly. The Razer Blade 15 and MSI GS65 are as thin as the G14, though heavier and larger. They’re also considerably more powerful, offering graphics options up to the RTX 2080 Max-Q. The closest alternative in price is the Predator Helios 300, which offers a similar configuration, though with less processor cores and a far larger chassis.
Lastly, if you want a 15-inch laptop for content creation that can game on the side, I recommend the Dell XPS 15. It’s not as capable a gaming machine as the G14, but is a more balanced option for content creators.
How long will it last? The G14 should last at least three or four years of gaming performance before it’ll start to show its age. It’s well-built, up-to-date, and powerful. Unfortunately, Asus only offers a one-year warranty for coverage of defects, including the battery. After that, you’re on your own.
Should you buy it? Yes. It’s an extremely powerful laptop crammed inside a surprisingly small design.
Editors' Recommendations AMD finally announced the GPU I’ve waited months for A major Asus ROG Ally challenger could be in the works AMD might be about to launch the most powerful laptop of 2023 A cheaper ROG Ally is coming, but you shouldn’t wait for it AMD might have just enabled MacBook-like gaming laptops, but I’m still skeptical Laptop Reviews Laptops Product Reviews Windows Reviews Computing Since Asus announced its ROG Ally handheld, one question has dominated the conversation: how much will it cost? If a new leak is to be believed, the flagship model will come in at $700.
Best Buy, which seems to be exclusively handling distribution in the U.S., had a listing briefly go live for the ROG Ally. It shows a model with AMD's Ryzen Z1 Extreme processor, 16GB of LPDDR5 memory, and 512GB of storage coming in at $700.
Computing Equipping the Asus ROG Ally with AMD RDNA 3 graphics might just pay off. Early leaked benchmarks of the Radeon 780M GPU show us that the gaming handheld might actually blow the Steam Deck out of the water.
According to the benchmarks, the integrated GPU might be able to run AAA titles at a smooth 60 frames per second (fps), making it superior to many discrete graphics cards. Is it time for Valve to start worrying? Computing Asus announced updates to two of its most portable gaming laptops at CES 2023. The 13.4-inch ROG Flow X13 has been slimmed down and powered up, making it an even more viable portable gaming option. Meanwhile, the 14.o-inch ROG Zephyrus G14 has received its own updates and is an incredibly powerful machine given its smaller chassis.
Both are solid offerings for anyone who wants a powerful gaming laptop they can easily carry around. The Flow X13 is slower by itself, but much faster with its XG Mobile add-on, while the Zephyrus G14 looks more like a gaming laptop and carries more power around with it. Which is the right portable gaming solution for you? Specs Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
