Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? These are the only gaming laptops you should consider if you want to play Starfield By Jacob Roach Close Starfield will undoubtedly be one of the biggest game releases of the year, and to experience it in its full glory, you'll need some serious horsepower. We've rounded up five of the best gaming laptops that should be able to chew through the game on release day.
We review dozens of gaming laptops each year, and Starfield is shaping up to challenge even the most powerful hardware. Here are the gaming laptops that can stand up to the game and still deliver great performance.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Lenovo Legion Pro 5 The best gaming laptop for Starfield Fantastic value Top-tier gaming performance USB-C charging available DLSS 3 Middling screen A bit heavy It's hard to go wrong playing Starfield on the best gaming laptop you can buy, and that's exactly what the Lenovo Legion Pro 5 is. We recommend going with the RTX 4070 configuration for the best experience in the game, as the weaker GPUs will likely force you to compromise some graphics settings.
The mobile RTX 4070 performs around the level of a desktop RTX 2080, which is what Starfield recommends for its system requirements. It's tough to say what those recommended requirements mean, but they should align with playing the game at 4K with 30 frames per second (fps) and AMD's FSR 2 enabled.
The Lenovo Legion Pro 5 comes with a 1,600p screen, and decreasing the resolution will surely improve your performance. This laptop is also rocking an AMD processor - the Ryzen 7 7745HX with the RTX 4070 configuration - and AMD says Starfield is optimized for its products as it's the game's PC exclusive partner.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Razer Blade 14 The best portable gaming laptop for Starfield Fantastic gaming performance Relatively cool and quiet Solid IPS screen Great battery life and portability Bulky charger More expensive than the previous model Take the Lenovo Legion Pro 5, trim it down, and add a premium MacBook-like finish, and you have the 2023 Razer Blade 14. It's more expensive, and it's certainly more premium, but you can expect a similar level of performance out of the machine in Starfield given its specs.
Like the Lenovo laptop, the Blade 14 comes with an RTX 4070. In our testing, it ends up slightly slower than the Legion Pro 5 due to its size, but it should still have plenty of gaming grunt to drive Starfield on the laptop's 1,600p display. The machine also stayed cool and quiet during our testing, which is an important factor with a game that's shaping up to be as demanding as Starfield.
Although the Razer Blade 14 takes a back seat in the GPU department, it has an impressive AMD CPU: the Ryzen 9 7940HS. It's an eight-core chip that will likely be a huge benefit in Starfield, especially if the game leans heavy on the processor in environments with a lot of additional characters.
Best Black Friday gaming laptop deals: Cheapest prices today Razer Black Friday deals: Save on gaming laptops, keyboards and more Best Dell Black Friday deals: Save on laptops, monitors, desktop PCs Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Asus ROG Strix Scar 17 The most powerful gaming laptop for Starfield Chart-topping processor performance High-end gaming performance DLSS 3 Decent value considering the hardware inside Solid port selection Lackluster screen Mostly plastic body If you want to play Starfield without compromises, and you're willing to spend up for the best experience, then the Asus ROG Strix Scar 17 can accommodate you. Short of the monstrous MSI GT77 Titan , the Strix Scar 17 is the fastest laptop we've ever tested, offering up performance that can rival a desktop RTX 3090.
That's because it packs Nvidia's RTX 4090, which is easily the fastest laptop GPU you can buy. It puts even high-end desktop PCs to shame, especially now that Asus is offering the Scar 17 with the Ryzen 9 7945HX3D.
The machine is also surprisingly reasonable considering the hardware. It's $3,500 still, so it's definitely nowhere near a budget or even midrange gaming laptop, but similar machines often sell for $4,000 or $5,000. At its asking price, the Strix Scar 17 still has no compromises, which is quite the feat.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends / Digital Trends Alienware x16 Full Starfield, on the go Fantastic gaming performance Solid build quality Compact enough to travel Comfortable AlienFX keyboard Unique RGB trackpad Runs hot or loud, with little in between Disappointing screen Limited USB-C power delivery As powerful as the Asus Strix Scar 17 is, it's also very bulky. If you want similar power in a more portable package, the Alienware x16 is for you. It offers desktop-replacement levels of performance, but it's still remarkably thin and portable.
Just like the Scar 17, you can pack in up to an RTX 4090 mobile graphics card, paired with a 14-core Intel Core i9-13900HK. This configuration actually clocks in a few hundred dollars cheaper than the Scar 17, though you can get the price down to $2,500 with an RTX 4070.
Performance in Starfield shouldn't be a problem for the Alienware x16. It's really the portability that makes the laptop shine. It clocks in just under 6 pounds, and it's only 0.73 inches think. It's definitely not the most portable gaming laptop, but it's shockingly thin and light compared to machines in its class, especially with its full-aluminum construction.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Dell G15 Best budget gaming laptop for Starfield Solid performance for the price Several color options Great build quality A little thick and heavy Lackluster screen Starfield looks like it will be a very demanding game, so it's hard to find a good budget gaming laptop for it. Even among the best budget gaming laptops , you'll likely need to dial back some settings to get decent performance.
If you're on a tight budget, though, the Dell G15 is the laptop to buy for Starfield.
 You can configure it with up to an RTX 4060 mobile graphics card, along with a 14-core Intel Core i7-13650HX. This configuration, which is the most expensive Dell offers, clocks in at $1,200 and should offer solid performance at 1080p in Starfield.
You can find laptops for cheaper with similar specs, but the Dell G15 stands out with its excellent build quality, The keyboard is fantastic, and it will stand up to years of travel. It also looks great, with Dell offering several unique color options this year.
Frequently Asked Questions You can play Starfield on a gaming laptop, assuming its powerful enough. For the best experience, we recommend a new gaming laptop with an RTX 4070 mobile graphics card. You can get by with less, though, such as with the Dell G15 with an RTX 4060.
Starfield looks like it will be quite demanding. The recommended system requirements call for an RTX 2080 or RX 6800 XT graphics card, and you'll need at least an RX 5700 or GTX 1070 Ti to meet the game's minimum system requirements.
Editors' Recommendations The best handheld gaming PCs you can buy Best Lenovo laptop Black Friday deals: Chromebooks, gaming laptops, and more Best Razer gaming laptop Black Friday deals worth shopping now Acer Black Friday sale: Gaming laptops, monitors and more Play Fortnite and more: This HP gaming PC is discounted to $400 Gaming Best Products Laptops PC Gaming Computing One of the best gaming PC deals comes courtesy of Lenovo with the Lenovo Legion Tower 5i gaming PC for $1,200 reduced from $1,600. While Lenovo's estimated value system can feel a little overly optimistic, that seems about right to us for once. Either way, $1,200 for a new gaming PC with an RTX 3060 graphics card and other good hardware is one to consider. Here's a quick look at what to expect before you hit the buy button.
Why you should buy the Lenovo Legion Tower 5i The Lenovo Legion Tower 5i has the latest 13th-generation Intel Core i7-13700F processor paired up with 16GB of memory and 1TB of SSD storage. Alongside that is an Nvidia GeForce RTX 3060 graphics card with 12GB of dedicated VRAM so it can cope with a lot. It's ideal for playing many of the latest games, easily vying with some of the best gaming PCs in this price range.
Computing It's easy to forget what a difference a great keyboard can make to your gaming performance. If you're looking to upgrade to one of the best, you can do so for 36% off the regular price at Amazon. Currently, the Logitech G915 Mechanical Gaming Keyboard is on sale for $160 so you save a huge $90 off the regular price of $250. A fantastic upgrade for anyone who spends a lot of time at their desk, we're here to tell you all about it or you can just hit the buy button below to get straight to buying it. This is easily one of the best wireless keyboard deals around today.
Why you should buy the Logitech G915 Mechanical Gaming Keyboard One of the best gaming keyboards around and easily topping the list as the best wireless option, the Logitech G915 Mechanical Gaming Keyboard is a really great keyboard. It offers a superb typing experience thanks to its sleek low-profile aluminum body and low-profile mechanical switches. It has excellent per-key RGB lighting, and even manages great battery life.
Computing Whether you're looking for a simple, cheap laptop or a gaming behemoth, HP is a great option to consider. There are always nice laptop deals at HP, on big rigs and simple Chromebooks. If you're not sure where to start, check out our list below. It includes HP laptops as cheap as $199 and as expensive as $1,250, with savings as big as $450.
14-inch HP Chromebook X360 -- $199, was $329 The cheapest option on this list is the Chromebook x360 from HP. It's a great option for students, since it runs fast and light, and the price is low. It does have some interesting bonuses, like the 2-in-1 ability. This is great if you like using a tablet but occasionally want a full keyboard for writing essays or answering emails. The HP x360 Chromebook has a FHD screen, 4GB of RAM 64GB of eMMC storage, and an Intel Celeron processor.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
