Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Products The best laptop stands you can buy Time for a desk upgrade! These great stands will elevate and protect your laptop By Tyler Lacoma Close Image used with permission by copyright holder We love the best laptops for their portability, providing the ability to bring your workstation with you everywhere you go. But when you are docked at a desk, it’s helpful to have a stand to clear some more space on your desk and lift it up to an acceptable height.
Rain Design iLevel 2 Boyata Stand Readaeer Laptop Computer Desk Soundance MacBook Laptop Stand Twelve South Bookarc Laptop stands step in and fix these problems by elevating the screen and providing better ventilation, among other features. After an extensive look at different models and how they function, we’re recommending our top picks, starting with the elegant Rain Design iLevel 2 model. Be sure to check out the full list for a variety of height and use options.
Rain Design iLevel 2 Image used with permission by copyright holder This simple design hides a surprising number of useful customization options. The slider you see at the bottom of the stand is actually used to control height, tilting the back support up and down for different angles so you can find just the right perspective. The lower base is protected with rubber pads, as is the support surface, so your desk and laptop won’t get damaged — and nothing will slide around uncontrollably. The slim nature of the stand and back opening also helps reduce heat.
Best Black Friday gaming laptop deals: Cheapest prices today You can finally purge your PC of default Windows apps These are the best microphones for streaming you can buy Keep in mind, due to the angle of the laptop, the Rain Design iLevel 2 is much better suited to an arrangement with an external keyboard and mouse: Some of our other picks may be friendlier if you still need to use your laptop’s keyboard.
Boyata Stand Image used with permission by copyright holder If you like the spare design of something like the iLevel 2 model, but also prefer more Z-shaped stands with better height control, this Boyata model should meet your needs nicely. The support surface includes plenty of openings to help with cooldown, and you can tailor the height to exactly what you need — including the title of the laptop.
The Boyota Stand is made of aluminum with silicone pads on the base and support surface for anti-slip protection. It’s compatible with laptops up to 17 inches, and we’ll also throw in a thumbs up for the one-year warranty if something goes wrong with the stand.
Readaeer Laptop Computer Desk Image used with permission by copyright holder This Readaeer model has a little of everything: The metal stand offers a Z-shaped based with adjustable height options, and enough room for a 15 to 16-inch laptop. Two cooling fans in the middle of the stand help prevent overheating, and a separate little square surface for your mouse or external touchpad. It’s a nice design for those who prefer their laptop and mouse to be on the same level (mouse sensitivity may need some adjustment), and you can attach the mouse stand on either side of the laptop. If you don’t like the mouse stand, you can remove it entirely.
However, the Readaeer Laptop Computer Desk isn’t the most travel-friendly model, so it’s a better option if you plan on leaving it in one place. The legs don’t have rubberized protection, so if you are using the stand on a wood desk or similar surface, you will probably want to get a protective mat to put it on.
Soundance MacBook Laptop Stand Image used with permission by copyright holder What you see is what you get with this option. This ultra-simple stand elevates your laptop by six inches, and easily accommodate laptops between 10 and 15.6-inches. The aluminum alloy arms are supported by rubber feet on the based to keep the stand from slipping.
With all that open space, there’s really no danger of the laptop overheating, either. Of course, adjustment options are clearly limited for the Soundance MacBook Laptop Stand, so it’s best chosen if you are all right with the height and tilt as it is.
Twelve South Bookarc Image used with permission by copyright holder Not everyone needs a laptop stand for when they are working: Some people need a handy stand on their desk to keep their laptop when it’s not in use, or when they are using an external monitor. A vertical laptop stand is just what you need.
The Bookarc accomplishes this with style: It’s designed for MacBook/Air/Pro models, but will fit laptops of similar sizes as well. There’s an integrated cable catch and the ability to connect both an external monitor and a charging cable, giving this stand plenty of potential.
Editors' Recommendations The best handheld gaming PCs you can buy Best Black Friday laptop deals: Get a new workhorse from $129 Don’t wait for new GPUs. It’s safe to buy a gaming laptop now Don’t waste your money. These are the best GPUs to buy on a budget The best Lenovo laptops for 2023: ThinkPad, Yoga, and more Laptops Computing Not everyone needs the fastest CPU and the highest-quality high-resolution display. Sometimes, a machine with a last-gen CPU and a decent Full HD display is plenty for the web browsing, email, and Office applications that make up many users' workflows. This can be true for students, and sometimes buyers are looking for a secondary machine to augment one of the best laptops you can buy.
That's where budget laptops come in. The definition is a loose one, with some machines costing a bit more but offering a lot more to go with it. But they'll save you hundreds over midrange and premium laptops that are overkill for what you need. This list will provide several options, including for gamers and those with the lowest budgets. You can check out our best laptops under $500 and best laptops under $300 lists for even more affordable options.
Computing Chromebooks are often a good option for someone on a tight budget who's finding even the best and cheapest laptop deals a little pricey. Using ChromeOS, such systems aren't much use for someone who needs Windows but it does mean better battery life and an experience designed for working on the cloud. To help you save even more on these often budget friendly offerings, we've picked out all best Chromebook deals currently available. These include some super cheap deals along with some for those able to spend a bit more.
Acer Chromebook 314 -- $180, was $269 The Acer Chromebook 314 is a fairly stylish looking Chromebook. It has an Intel Celeron processor, 4GB of memory and 64GB of eMMC storage. That's fairly basic stuff so the attractive part about the Acer Chromebook 314 is its screen. It has a 14-inch full HD widescreen LED-backlit IPS display. It's also a touchscreen if you prefer to be more tactile with your work. The Chromebook only weighs just over three pounds so it's easy to take out and about with you while it has a huge 12.5 hour battery life so it's ideal for your busiest of days on the move. USB-C ports keep it suitably up to date too.
Computing If you want to upgrade from a laptop with a small screen, you should be on the lookout for 17-inch laptop deals. These devices offer some of the largest displays that you can get on a laptop, but they range from affordable options to high-end machines, and are made by the best laptop brands. You can take your pick among all of the available offers online, but to help you narrow down your choices, we've gathered our favorite bargains below. You need to hurry with your purchase though, as laptop deals like these usually don't last long.
Asus CX1700CK Chromebook — $269, was $299 The Asus CX1700CK Chromebook is one of the cheapest options for a 17-inch laptop, because instead of Windows, it's powered by Google's Chrome OS. Chromebooks run smooth despite low-end components like the Asus CX1700CK Chromebook's Intel Celeron N4500 processor, integrated Intel UHD Graphics, and 4GB of RAM. Its 17.3-inch screen offers Full HD resolution, and you can supplement its limited 64GB eMMC with cloud storage on Google Drive.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
