Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The Lenovo Legion Pro 5 is the next-gen gaming laptop I’ve been waiting for By Jacob Roach Close $1,600.00 Fantastic value Top-tier gaming performance USB-C charging available DLSS 3 Middling screen A bit heavy Whenever a new generation of CPUs and GPUs hits, the list of the best gaming laptops is too often dominated by expensive, high-end configurations. The Lenovo Legion Pro 5 has a different focus. It’s still a high-end laptop that blazes past most other machines, but its exceptional build quality and sensible price make it feel like a next-gen gaming experience that’s worth the upgrade.
Lenovo Legion Pro 5 (2023) specs Understated in the right ways My dream port selection A middling, but not bad screen Keyboard: great for gaming, passable for typing Eight-core Ryzen holds up Blistering gaming performance The next-gen gaming laptop I’ve been waiting for The RTX 4070 laptop GPU is the star of the show in this machine, offering excellent performance at the native resolution of the display and next-gen features like DLSS 3. The processor isn’t quite as impressive, but considering how much else the Legion Pro 5 has going for it, it’s an easy gaming laptop to recommend.
AMD finally announced the GPU I’ve waited months for This new gaming laptop might have water cooling and an RTX 4090 AMD might have just enabled MacBook-like gaming laptops, but I’m still skeptical Lenovo Legion Pro 5 (2023) specs Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Lenovo has a few models of the Legion Pro 5 Gen 8 available, but most of them center around the Nvidia RTX 4070. This is firmly a midrange gaming laptop when it comes to specs, but Lenovo still outfits the machine with premium bells and whistles.
Lenovo Legion Pro 5 (2023) Dimensions 0.86 x 14.3 x 10.25 inches Weight 5.51 pounds Processor AMD Ryzen 7 7745HX Graphics Nvidia RTX 4070 laptop GPU RAM 32GB DDR5-5200 Display 16-inch 2,560 x 1,600, IPS, 165Hz Storage 1TB PCIe Gen4 NVMe SSD Touch N/A Ports 4x USB 3.2 Gen 1 Type A, 2X USB 3.2 Gen 2 Type C (2x DisplayPort 1.4, 1x 140W power delivery), 1x HDMI 2.1, 1x Ethernet Wireless Wi-Fi 6E, Bluetooth 5.1 Webcam 1080p with E-shutter Operating system Windows 11 Home Battery 80 watt-hour Price $1,600 Where to buy Compared to the higher-end Legion Pro 7i , you’re getting lower CPU and GPU specs, but Lenovo keeps everything else intact. You still get the latest Wi-Fi 6E for connectivity, an excellent port selection, plenty of storage, and a 1080p webcam. Even more impressive, the Legion Pro 5 comes in around half a pound lighter than the Legion Pro 7i, despite being the same size.
The $1,600 configuration I reviewed is the highest-end configuration you can buy, outfitted with 1TB of SSD storage and 32GB of DDR5 memory. The cheapest configuration comes in $320 cheaper at $1,280, and it cuts the RAM down to 16GB and storage down to 512GB.
More importantly, this configuration comes with the Ryzen 5 7645HX and an Nvidia RTX 4050 GPU. There’s some argument to going with the Ryzen 5 if you’re trying to save money, but I’d recommend most people stick with the RTX 4070 configuration. That GPU feels like the sweet spot for the resolution and size of the Legion Pro 5.
Lenovo also offers a version of this laptop with an Intel processor — the Legion Pro 5i. It’s around the same price, with the RTX 4070 configuration clocking in at $1,600. However, you’ll need to spend $1,800 if you want the same 1TB of storage that the AMD configuration offers.
Understated in the right ways Jacob Roach / Digital Trends I’ve always liked Lenovo’s Legion design, and the Gen 8 version of the Legion Pro 5 only elevates what made previous iterations look so good. That really comes down to a lack of loud, in-your-face gaming branding. If it wasn’t for the thickness of the Legion Pro 5, you could convince me it was any other laptop, not one built specifically for gaming.
The Gen 8 design furthers that goal. Gone is the angular back heat sink and the diagonal line on top of the lid. Instead, you have a smooth aluminum finish on top and rounded corners for the screen and the back of the machine. Combined with a brushed aluminum badge with the Lenovo logo, along with a bold Legion overlay on the opposite side, the Legion Pro 5 feels premium.
It decidedly doesn’t look like a gaming laptop, however, which may not be for everyone. I’m partial to the understated look, but if you want to wear the gaming look proudly with an RGB-ridden laptop like the Asus Strix Scar 17 , the Legion Pro 5 may not be right for you. For my taste, I think the Legion Pro 5 looks fantastic.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends The Legion Pro 5 feels premium at all points, with minimal flex on the hinge and no give to the keyboard. It’s a bit heavy at 5.5 pounds, being almost a full pound heavier than the Razer Blade 15.
 It feels like a reasonable trade-off, though. Scaling up to a larger 17-inch gaming laptop will net you another pound, so the Legion Pro 5 is a solid middle ground given its 16-inch screen.
You’ll have to factor in its massive power brick, too. Lenovo includes a 300-watt power adapter that’s a few pounds on its own, so you won’t be throwing the Legion Pro 5 in a backpack for a day out. Thankfully, Lenovo sells a USB-C charger if you want to browse the internet or play some lighter games on the go.
Lenovo has a good justification for the weight: the cooling solution. There’s a massive fin array and two fans, which are part of Lenovo’s Legion ColdFront 5.0 spec. The GPU never went above 65 degrees Celsius in my testing, which is great in a laptop, and the machine is remarkably quiet in its Balanced mode. The fans ramp up in Performance mode, but it’s still much quieter than a machine like the MSI GT77 Titan.
My dream port selection Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Lenovo really kicked off the trend of putting most of the ports around the back of the laptop, freeing up the sides so you don’t break off a USB cable while flicking your mouse. The Legion Pro 5 carries the torch with most of the connectivity around the back, including the power connector, two USB 3.2 Gen 1 Type A ports, a full-size Ethernet and HDMI 2.1 port, and a USB-C port that supports up to 140W of power.
There are a few ports on the sides, with a pair of USB-A ports split on left and right, along with a USB-C port on the left. This is basically my dream layout for ports, not only in the number of ports that Lenovo offers, but also how they’re situated around the laptop.
A middling, but not bad screen Jacob Roach / Digital Trends If there’s anywhere Lenovo compromised on the Legion Pro 5, it’s the screen. The screen isn’t bad, it’s just not remarkable, which is becoming increasingly important as we see laptop displays with full array local dimming or packing an OLED panel.
This is a bog-standard IPS panel. It looks a bit muted, with a thick matte coating and a peak brightness of 364 nits based on my testing. The 165Hz refresh rate is fine for gaming, and I appreciate that it supports both G-Sync and FreeSync for the discrete and integrated graphics. But there’s nothing special about the display. It’s the trade-off for a reasonably-priced laptop, I suppose.
The good news is that the screen doesn’t do anything wrong. It won’t floor you with brightness, and it doesn’t really do HDR, but it’s fast and color accurate. I measured a color error of less than 1, which is fantastic. The focus here is clearly on the hardware and build quality, not on premium extras like a high-end display.
Keyboard: great for gaming, passable for typing Jacob Roach / Digital Trends The Legion Pro 5 has a decent keyboard, but it’s definitely not my favorite. It’s Lenovo’s storied TrueStrike design, which comes with a slimmed-down number pad, arrow keys, and per-key RGB lighting. It’s responsive and comfortable for gaming, but I don’t love it for typing.
Lenovo says the keys have 1.5mm of travel, which sounds decent, but the keys seems to bottom out faster. That’s good for rapidly hitting keys in games, but the low travel and a bit of mushiness turned me off from long typing sessions. The keyboard is also offset to the left to accommodate the number pad, causing more than a few slipups while I was typing.
Still, it’s not a bad keyboard, and I’d take it over some of the Cherry MX designs we’ve seen in laptops from MSI and Alienware. This is a solid keyboard for gaming and a perfectly serviceable one for typing, even if it doesn’t reach the heights of something like the MacBook Pro.
Eight-core Ryzen holds up The Legion Pro 5 comes packing a Ryzen 7 7745HX. The flagship Ryzen 9 7945HX was massively impressive in the Asus Scar 17, but this lower-end model doesn’t hold up quite as well. It still goes up to 55W, just like its 16-core sibling, but it only comes with half of the cores.
As you can see in the tests above, that has some big implications in synthetic benchmarks like Cinebench and Geekbench. Naturally the Legion Pro 5 is slower with only eight cores on tap, but it’s a showcase of how AMD’s approach to processors might be falling out of date. The Core i9-13900H is a similar processor with lower power draw, and it obliterates the Ryzen 7 7745HX due to Intel’s hybrid architecture.
It’s not really the multi-core performance that falls behind, though. It’s the single-core performance. The CPU falls short of the flagship options in Cinebench and Geekbench, likely due to the fact that the Legion Pro 5 is a 16-inch laptop. Lenovo doesn’t have an option to scale higher, so a machine like the Legion Pro 7 is a better fit if you need top-level CPU performance.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends These synthetic benchmarks can have implications in real-world apps, as showcased by Handbrake. The Legion Pro 5 is the weakest laptop out of our lineup, both on paper and in the test, but it’s not too far behind the flagship chips. It’s still a remarkably powerful CPU, even if it doesn’t hit the heights that some 16-core behemoths can.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends To drive that point home, PCMark 10 shows that the Legion Pro 5 actually beats some of the higher-end options in general productivity workloads, perhaps due to Lenovo’s thermal and power tuning.
The Ryzen 7 7745HX is still a powerful processor and the Legion Pro 5 is a solid showcase of it. I suspect most people can save some money here, though. The Ryzen 5 7645HX configuration is around $250 cheaper and it should offer similar gaming performance. I haven’t tested it personally, but the Ryzen 7 7745HX falls into the weird middle ground where it seems a little much for gaming and not quite enough for top-level CPU performance.
Blistering gaming performance Jacob Roach / Digital Trends The Lenovo Legion Pro 5 is the first laptop with the mobile RTX 4070 we’ve reviewed. A although it doesn’t hold up to machines like the Asus Scar 17 and Lenovo Legion Pro 7 with higher-end graphics cards in 3DMark, it’s still a fiercely powerful gaming laptop.
At its native resolution of 2,560 x 1,600, you’ll get above 60 frames per second (fps) in most games. There are exceptions, such as Cyberpunk 2077, that slip below that mark, but most of those demanding games support Nvidia’s Deep Learning Super Sampling (DLSS) to boost your performance. More on that soon.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends In some machines, we see relatively small differences between power modes, but there’s a solid boost from the Legion Pro 5’s Performance mode. It doesn’t scale as high as some other Lenovo machines, though, suggesting the RTX 4070 is close to tapped out at the Balanced mode. The good news is that the RTX 4070 nears the level of the RTX 4080 in the Balanced mode. It’s only in Performance mode where there are large differences.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends There’s no problem stepping down the resolution on a laptop like this, especially in more demanding titles like Red Dead Redemption 2.
At 1200p, the Legion Pro 5 is great, easily exceeding 60 fps in demanding games and pushing into the 100-plus fps territory in titles like Horizon Zero Dawn.
These tests were run without super resolution features like FidelityFX Super Resolution (FSR) , too, so you have options to go even higher.
But what about ray tracing? None of my tests were run with ray tracing turned on, and it’s one of the bigger selling points of Nvidia’s most recent GPUs. In a demanding game like Cyberpunk 2077, the Legion Pro 5 falls short of playable at its native resolution, and it just barely passes 30 fps at 1200p. Ray tracing in laptops is a reality in high-end, RTX 4090-touting machines like the Asus ROG Zephyrus M16, but it’s still a tough sell for midrange options.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends That is without DLSS 3. The Legion Pro 5 is packing an Nvidia RTX 40-series GPU, which means it has access to Frame Generation. As you can see, it hits nearly 70 fps at 1600p, leveraging AI to generate new frames on top of the standard super resolution feature of DLSS.
You may have to turn off ray tracing in some games, particularly those that don’t include DLSS or FSR. Most games with ray tracing also support one or both of these features, though, so you shouldn’t have too many problems. Regardless, the raw performance of the Legion Pro 5 is what shines here, especially for $1,600. It’s slower than flagship designs, but it also costs about half as much as a machine like the Alienware x17 R2.
The next-gen gaming laptop I’ve been waiting for We’ve seen a handful of high-end, expensive gaming laptops packing next-gen components. The Legion Pro 5 is the first, however, that hits a sweet spot between high-end performance, premium build quality, and a decent price.
There are a few reasonable trade-offs — a decent but unexciting screen and a hefty weight chief among them — but they’re easy to overlook given how much else the Legion Pro 5 has going for it. This is the midrange to high-end gaming laptop from the latest generation I’ve been waiting for, and Lenovo nailed it.
Editors' Recommendations Don’t wait for new GPUs. It’s safe to buy a gaming laptop now Lenovo’s Legion Glasses promise big-screen gaming wherever you are Lenovo’s new 14-inch gaming laptop beats the ROG G14 in one key way The Lenovo Slim Pro is the best answer to the MacBook Pro I’ve seen yet Lenovo’s CES 2023 Legion laptops include AI ‘graphical wizardry’ Laptop Reviews Laptops Lenovo PC PC Gaming Product Reviews Windows Reviews Computing Microsoft's Surface Pro 9 represents the latest version of what's become the industry standard for detachable tablet 2-in-1s. It's also one of the best laptops, period. Meanwhile, Lenovo's IdeaPad Duet 5i is an audacious new competitor, going up against an established machine.
There's one major factor differentiating the two: the price. The IdeaPad Duet 5i is significantly less expensive (and configurable) than the Surface Pro 9. Does that give it enough of a leg to stand on? Specs and configurations Computing Today at Microsoft’s Surface event, the company is launching a range of new Surface devices and accessories. From new laptops to speakerphones, the Redmond, California giant believes it has made a strong pitch for you to upgrade to the latest generation.
All in all, there was a lot on show at the event. To help you catch up, here’s everything Microsoft announced.
Surface Pro 9 Computing Gaming laptops have seen a resurgence over the last few years as brands like Lenovo attempt to cram powerful hardware into a light and portable chassis. The Legion Slim 7i is an evolution of this segment with optimized cooling, a wonderful keyboard, and multiple charging options - even if most of the changes seem like they're simply on a component level.
I had the chance to get my hands on a unit prior to release, and Lenovo has delivered on the promise of a thin and light gaming laptop with high-end hardware. The machine marks Lenovo's return to Intel for its Legion Slim range, as well as a showcase for AMD's new Ryzen 6000 CPUs.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
