Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Razer Blade 14 (2023) review: making the best better — and more expensive By Jacob Roach Close $2,600.00 Fantastic gaming performance Relatively cool and quiet Solid IPS screen Great battery life and portability Bulky charger More expensive than the previous model Almost immediately, last year’s Razer Blade 14 catapulted to the top of our best gaming laptops ranking. Razer could have phoned it in on a follow-up, bumping the specs while keeping everything else the same, but it didn’t. The 2023 Razer Blade 14 significantly improves the previous design with user-upgradeable components, a nicer screen, and a sizable jump in specs.
Razer Blade 14 (2023) specs More changes than you’d expect Great ports, poor access Chart-topping IPS Think MacBook (with RGB) The AI machine Efficient Ryzen Plenty of gaming grunt Battery life for the full day Worth the price That comes at the cost of value, though. The Blade 14 we saw last year hit a surprising sweet spot for the usually premium laptop range, while the 2023 Blade 14 is more of what I’d expect out of Razer. It’s not egregiously expensive, and I’ll tell you upfront that it’s worth the price. But the higher barrier to entry knocks the 2023 Blade 14 down just a peg.
The best thin and light gaming laptops 2023 10 best gaming monitors of 2023: tested and reviewed Intel’s 14th-gen Raptor Lake refresh might be a major disappointment Razer Blade 14 (2023) specs Out of the gate, the Blade 14 isn’t just a spec bump compared to last year’s model — it’s also a price bump. I reviewed the RTX 4070 configuration, which is in the middle of Razer’s current lineup and clocks in at $2,700. The RTX 4060, which is identical otherwise, comes in at $2,400.
Razer Blade 14 (2023) Dimensions 0.7 x 8.97 x 12.23 inches Weight 4.05 pounds Processor AMD Ryzen 7 7940HS Graphics Nvidia RTX 4070 mobile (140W TGP) RAM 16 GB DDR5-5600 (user-upgradable up to 64GB) Display 2560 x 1600, 240Hz IPS, AMD FreeSync Premium, 3ms response time Storage 1TB PCIe Gen 4 SSD (user-upgradeable to 4TB) Touch N/A Ports 2 x USB 3.2 Gen 2 Type-A ports, 2x USB4 Type-C ports (w/ 100W power delivery and DisplayPort 1.4), 1x HDMI 2.1, 1x 3.5mm audio Wireless WI-Fi 6E, Bluetooth 5.2 Webcam 1080p Windows Hello with privacy shutter Operating system Windows 11 Home Battery 68.1-Whr battery Price $2,700 That’s the starting price, but you can go higher. For $2,800, Razer is also offering a Mercury White model with an RTX 4070. It’s almost identical to the model I reviewed, though it comes with 32GB of DDR5 compared to 16GB. Not worth the upgrade, in my opinion.
The main reason why is that you can upgrade the memory and storage yourself, up to 64GB and 4TB, respectively. This is a huge improvement over last year’s model, though that does mean you have fewer configuration options out of the gate.
More changes than you’d expect Jacob Roach / Digital Trends You could take basically any Razer Blade from the past several generations and its overall design will be very similar. The 2023 Razer Blade 14 looks almost identical to the one that was released last year, and that’s not a bad thing. It’s a testament to how much Razer gets right with this MacBook-like design that it still looks and feels fantastic in 2023.
There are some subtle differences, though. The Blade 14 packed on a tenth of a pound compared to last year’s model, but it’s also about half an inch thinner. The overall dimensions are slightly skewed, too, as Razer went with a 16:10 display this time around.
Despite some subtle moves, the Razer Blade 14 still feels like the perfect balance of portability and power. It’s not quite as light as something like the Asus ROG Zephyrus G14 , coming in half a pound heavier due to its all-aluminum construction. But it’s still very portable.
The model I reviewed came in matte black, which is the only color you’ll find the cheaper RTX 4060 model in. You can pick up the RTX 4070 configuration in Razer’s Mercury White for a $100 upcharge, as well as a bump to 32GB of memory. Thankfully, you can upgrade the cheaper model on your own. Unlike the previous version, the 2023 Razer Blade 14 has both user-upgradable memory (up to 64GB) and storage (up to 4TB) — a big step forward for Razer.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Overall, the 2023 Razer Blade 14 is a refinement, and one that’s tough to spot unless you have two models sitting side-by-side. The changes only serve to make the laptop better, though. On the other hand, there are some areas that Razer hasn’t addressed.
For example, fingerprints. Razer asserts that the Blade 14 has a fingerprint-resistant coating, which it has maintained on several models, but the laptop picked up smudges within 15 minutes of taking it out of the box. It collects fingerprints like Pokémon cards, especially on the matte black finish, developing somewhat of a fingerprint patina even a week after using the laptop.
It’s not a huge issue, and something that’s present on other Blades, but it’s important to keep in mind nonetheless.
Great ports, poor access Jacob Roach / Digital Trends The Blade 14 has a solid selection of ports — dual USB-4 Type-C connections and dual USB 3.2 Gen 2 Type-A ports, which are split evenly across both sides of the laptop. You also get a full-sized HDMI 2.1 output and a headphone jack, which are becoming shockingly rare in gaming laptops these days.
I’m not impressed, though, and it has nothing to do with the ports themselves. It’s all about Razer’s chunky charger. Razer has long maintained a bulky charging cable that locks into the port at a right angle, blocking one of the USB ports. You can flip it around and run the connection off your desk, but even that’s a hassle with the heavy, thick, and braided cable on the charger. Machines like the Lenovo Legion Pro 5 have the right idea here: the charging port should go at the back of the laptop.
On the plus side, you can charge the laptop via USB-C, with both ports supporting up to 100 watts of power delivery. It’s not a great idea to game while charging the laptop this way, but it works for topping off while browsing your PC if the charger is getting in your way.
Overall, the port selection is good, even if I have gripes about Razer’s charger. The only thing I would’ve liked to see was an SD or microSD card slot. Razer really pegs the Blade 14 as a portable gaming and content creation powerhouse, and an SD card slot natively on the laptop would solve a lot of dongle woes.
Chart-topping IPS Jacob Roach / Digital Trends / Digital Trends We’ve seen a huge bump in the quality of laptop displays over the past year, but the Razer Blade 14 hasn’t quite caught up. It doesn’t reach the heights of a machine like the ROG Zephyrus M16 , but it also doesn’t meddle in bog-standard IPS territory like Lenovo Legion Pro 7i.
 It’s a very good display that’s just a hair shy of great.
First, we need to talk about the significant change. Razer did away with the 16:9 aspect ratio of the previous generation, and now we have a 16:10 aspect ratio with a resolution of 2560 x 1600. I wouldn’t have gawked at a 16:9 screen, but 16:10 is much better for both productivity and media consumption, so I’m happy to see Razer jump ship.
In addition, you get a blazing-fast 240Hz refresh rate, which is quickly becoming the norm for higher-end gaming laptops. The display quality is excellent, too. I measured 98% coverage of the DCI-P3 color space and a color error of less than 1. Razer says the display comes factory calibrated, and it shows. You could easily edit photos or videos on this screen right out of the box.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends It gets super bright, too. Razer advertises a peak brightness of 500 nits, but I actually measured up to 571 nits on my SpyderX Elite. Combined with solid color coverage, colors pop off the screen.
So, where does it fall short of great? Contrast. At most, I measured a contrast ratio of 1,200:1, which is typical IPS territory. It would’ve been great to see a mini-LED or OLED option as we saw on the recent Razer Blade 15 for cinematic games and movies. It’s definitely not a dealbreaker, though. This display is markedly above most laptops on the market, even if it doesn’t quite reach the heights of some higher-end displays we’ve seen over the past year.
Think MacBook (with RGB) Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Razer laptops receive a lot of praise for their keyboards and for good reason. The Blade 14 sports the same snappy keyboard you’ll find on other Blades, fit with a responsive 1mm of travel and a “linear” feel, according to Razer. You also get per-key RGB lighting through Razer Synapse.
For my tastes, it’s a little too snappy, falling closer to the feel of a recent MacBook keyboard (though with a decent amount more travel). I like a long travel as you’d find on something like a Lenovo ThinkPad. The Blade 14 isn’t my favorite keyboard, but make no mistake, it’s still leagues better than most gaming laptops, and even better than the faux mechanical keyboards you see on machines like Alienware x17 R2.
In addition to a solid keyboard, you get a massive, luxurious trackpad. It’s almost too big, in fact. Especially on the right side, it’s very easy for your palm to rest on the edge of the trackpad while you’re typing, and it’s not great at rejecting inputs. It’s an annoyance, but one I’m willing to accept given how large the trackpad is.
The AI machine Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Although I’ll get to my standard benchmarks next, it’s important to highlight all of the AI hardware inside the Blade 14. In addition to DLSS 3 with the RTX 4070, this is the first time we’re seeing AMD’s Ryzen AI on a laptop. The Ryzen 9 7940HS comes with a dedicated AI processor that, right now, is used to accelerate Windows Studio Effects.
These effects include automatic framing, eye contact, and advanced background effects, all of which are natively built into the OS. They work well, though they’re overshadowed by Nvidia’s Broadcast suite, which can already leverage the AI cores on the RTX 4070 for similar effects. The idea here is that more AI-focused apps will be able to take advantage of chips like the Ryzen 9 7940HS in the future.
For now, it’s all with the webcam. The effects are fine, though I hope some sort of AI-assisted sharpening or color correction is on the way. The Blade 14 has a decent 1080p webcam (and I appreciate its old-school, physical privacy shutter), but it still gets grainy in dark scenes and tends to blur out in different colors depending on your lighting conditions.
Ryzen AI is definitely not a reason to buy the Blade 14, but it’s a nice plus to have. You get better features for video calls and the like, but we’ll need to wait to see how Windows and third-party apps will be able to leverage a dedicated processor like Ryzen AI in the future.
Efficient Ryzen The Razer Blade 14 marks the debut of AMD’s Ryzen 9 7940HS, which steps down the power compared to the pinned HX parts we saw in a machine like the Asus Strix Scar 17.
Looking at multi-core scores in Cinebench and Geekbench, it’s no surprise that a chip like Intel’s Core i9-13900HX shoots ahead with its massive core array. What’s more surprising is how much the Ryzen 7 7745HX is ahead despite sporting the same eight cores as the Ryzen 9 7940HS. That’s what extra power gets you.
That’s not to say the Blade 14 is behind, and given its size, the CPU is surprisingly powerful. Compare it to the Core i7-13700H in the Dell XPS 15 9530 , and the Ryzen 9 7940HS is trading blows in both Cinebench and Geekbench with fewer cores, in a smaller chassis, and with the same power profile.
Break that out to a real-world app like Handbrake, and the Ryzen 9 7940HS comes out ahead in rendering tasks. Intel still has a lead for certain applications, specifically Premiere Pro with QuickSync, but the Ryzen 9 7940HS certainly has a lot of raw power on tap.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends For more general-purpose use, both of AMD’s recent laptop chips shoot ahead of the competition from Intel (including the 24-core Core i9-13900HX) in PCMark 10.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends I should mention that all of these benchmarks were done in the default, Balanced mode on the Blade 14. You have the option to crank up CPU and GPU power through Razer Synapse, but the default mode is too good to ignore. Unlike previous Blade models, the surface temperatures aren’t too hot on the 2023 Blade 14, and the fans stay quiet.
It was shocking the amount of performance I was seeing out of the machine given its lack of heat and noise, and I suspect it’s some combination of software advancements when the CPU is idle and the overall efficiency of the hardware inside.
Plenty of gaming grunt Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Sure, you can use the Blade 14 to edit videos, but it came to game. And it definitely games. At a high level, you can see how well it scales compared to a laptop like the Lenovo Legion Pro 5. It’s putting up similar numbers with a weaker processor. And the Legion Pro 5 is one of the fastest RTX 4070 laptops we’ve tested. And it’s a 16-inch machine, while the Blade 14 is only 14 inches.
You shouldn’t expect the same performance out of a larger 16-inch laptop with similar specs, but the Blade 14 gets shockingly close considering its size. If you crack the GPU and CPU up, it can match most larger machines, too.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends At the native resolution of 1600p, you’re going to get above 60 frames per second (fps) with maxed-out settings in most games, with some games, such as Horizon Zero Dawn, approaching the 90 fps mark. It’s important to highlight that the RTX 4070 supports Nvidia’s Deep Learning Super Sampling (DLSS) , including Frame Generation, allowing games like Cyberpunk 2077 to run close to 70 fps with the Ultra ray tracing preset and DLSS 3 enabled.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends You can definitely step down the resolution to 1920 x 1200, and you’ll easily cross 60 fps, and even reach above 100 fps in many demanding titles. It’s a good thing the Blade 14 has a 240Hz display, because you can easily drive that refresh rate in a game like Overwatch 2 on this machine.
I ran two sets of benchmarks, one pass with the default performance mode and one with the CPU and GPU cranked up. And honestly, the default mode is more than enough. You get a hair of extra performance with the extra CPU and GPU power, but you trade a lot of heat and fan noise in the process. With both cranked, the Blade 14 is loud and hot, while the default performance mode is pleasingly cool and quiet.
Battery life for the full day Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Battery life isn’t usually too important for a high-end gaming laptop like the massive MSI GT77 Titan , but it’s a huge factor for the ultra-portable Blade 14. And the 2023 Blade 14 is up to the task, even with its relatively small 68.1-watt-hour battery.
In our web browsing test, set to the Balanced performance mode, the laptop lasted over eight hours before dying out. That’s not as long as the MacBook Pro 14, sure, but it’s leagues better than most gaming laptops, and even some battery-life-focused Windows laptops. For context, the Razer Blade 15 OLED dies out in half the time the Blade 14 lasted.
It even managed to beat out the Microsoft Surface Pro 9 in this test, and it lasted nearly three times as long as the Lenovo Legion Pro 7i.
 It’s a testament to the efficiency of both the Ryzen 9 7940HS and the RTX 4070 inside the machine, easily offering all-day battery life. The other huge plus is USB-C charging, allowing you to top off the battery without lugging around the 230W AC adapter.
There are some tools to extend battery life further, as well. For example, you can cap the charger out to 80% or less, keeping the battery healthy if you leave your laptop plugged in most of the time. And, you can configure the display to automatically step down to 60Hz when you unplug it, as well as shut off the keyboard lighting, saving you even more.
Worth the price Jacob Roach / Digital Trends / Digital Trends Overall, the 2023 Razer Blade 14 comes with some significant improvements over the previous model — a faster screen, better performance, better surface temperatures, and finally user-upgradeable components. It also comes at a higher price. The previous model was available starting at $1,800, while you’ll need to spend at least $2,400 to get your foot in the door with the 2023 version.
It’s worth the price, no doubt. However, Razer competed well with a machine like the Zephyrus G14 in the previous generation, offering a bump in build quality for a similar bump in price. Now, the Blade 14 ends up $750 more expensive for an almost identical configuration, so although it’s worth the price, there’s a much higher premium placed on build quality.
I recommend picking up the Razer Blade 14 if that extra build quality is something you look for in a laptop. I’m knocking down the score compared to last year’s model just a hair due to the price, but this is still a laptop worthy of carrying the Blade 14 badge.
Editors' Recommendations Call of Duty Modern Warfare 3: best settings, benchmarks, and more The best external GPUs for your laptop in 2023 The best gaming PCs for 2023: Dell, Origin, Lenovo, and more These are the best budget gaming laptops you can buy right now Baldur’s Gate 3 PC performance tested: best settings, DLSS, slow HDD mode, and more Laptop Reviews Laptops PC PC Gaming Product Reviews Computing The 14-inch laptop has a small — but noticeable — screen size upgrade over even the best 13-inch laptops, making them better choices for entertainment, gaming, or professional design while still being slim and portable enough to carry anywhere with you.
If this seems like a good fit for your busy life, we have the best 14-inch laptops you should check out, beginning with the excellent all-rounder Apple MacBook Pro 14. The brand-new machine has some of the best performance and battery life around to go with an excellent display. We also have picks for gaming, extra power, and affordability, so there should be something for everyone.
Computing Prime Day deals have arrived, with Amazon, Best Buy, Walmart, Dell, HP, and Lenovo, all having sales of their own, bringing plenty of discounts on some of the best gaming laptops money can buy. We've sifted through everything on offer to create a definitive list of the best Prime Day gaming laptops that you can (and totally should) shop today.
HP Victus 15 Gaming Laptop -- $680, was $900 The HP Victus 15 is a relatively affordable gaming laptop, but it doesn't sacrifice performance because it's powered by the Intel Core i5-13420H processor and Nvidia GeForce RTX 3050 Graphics, with 8GB of RAM and 512GB of SSD storage. It's got a 15.6-inch screen with Full HD resolution and a 144Hz refresh rate, and it comes with Windows 11 Home pre-loaded. An enlarged touchpad and backlit keyboard add to the gamer aesthetic for less.
Computing The Razer Blade 14 has long been one of my favorite gaming laptops, especially when we're talking about extremely compact, yet powerful options. For 2023, Razer has now announced an upgrade to the machine, bringing not only the latest RTX 40-series graphics, but also up to the anticipated new AMD Ryzen 9 7940HS processor.
I call it "ambitious" because it was an attempt to reduce the size of the popular Razer Blade formula down to something even smaller: a true "stealth" gaming laptop, and a great vehicle for AMD's Ryzen platform.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
