Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Razer Blade 15 review: say hello to HDR gaming on a laptop By Luke Larsen Close $3,300.00 Incredible screen for HDR gaming OLED 240Hz looks excellent Great port selection Decent 1080p webcam Clicky keyboard to type on Surface temperatures are hot Touchpad has palm rejection issues Battery life is poor Playing games on a 240Hz OLED panel feels like we’ve reached some kind of peak for the PC. It’s the best image quality you can get on a screen, paired with a refresh rate higher than most gamers will ever need.
Razer Blade 15 specs It’s all in the screen Performance and battery life More of the same The best Razer Blade yet? Best of all, it’s showing up in the most high-end gaming laptops you can buy, like the Razer Blade 15. But this laptop is far more than just tech for tech’s sake — this drags the future of PC gaming into the present. The results are seriously impressive, even when the Razer Blade 15 itself is beginning to feel a bit long in the tooth.
Don’t wait for new GPUs. It’s safe to buy a gaming laptop now The best thin and light gaming laptops 2023 Best MSI gaming laptop deals: Save on the Bravo, Delta and Stealth Razer Blade 15 specs Razer Blade 15 (240Hz OLED) Dimensions 13.98 x 9.25 x 0.67 inches Weight 4.40 pounds Processor Intel Core i9-12900H Graphics Nvidia RTX 3070 Ti RAM 16 GB DDR5 4800MHz dual-channel memory Display 15.6-inch OLED QHD 240Hz Storage 1TB M.2 NVMe SSD Touch No Ports 1 x Thunderbolt 4 (USB-C) 2 x USB-C 3.2 Gen 2 – Supports Power Delivery 3 (15W) 3 x USB-A 3.2 Gen 2 Full-size SD card slot Wireless Wi-Fi 6E, Bluetooth 5.2 Webcam 1080p with Windows Hello Operating system Windows 11 Battery 80 watt-hour battery Price $3,300 It’s all in the screen Image used with permission by copyright holder The 2022 version of the Razer Blade 15 doesn’t feature any major changes to the formula. It has the latest RTX 3080 Ti and 3070 Ti GPUs available, alongside the Core i9-12900H, of course. But the tweaks to the actual design itself are minor. There are slightly larger keycaps for the keyboard and a new laser-cut grille for the upward-firing speakers – but not anything you’d notice without very close inspection.
But the option for a 240Hz OLED panel? That’s something new and exciting to test out. The rollout of OLED to laptops has been painfully slow, especially on gaming laptops.
 Razer has offered an OLED model for years, but it’s always been limited to a 4K 60Hz panel – and that’s not one many gamers are interested in due to its resolution and refresh rate. That’s especially been true in past years, when gaming laptops weren’t powerful enough to play in 4K resolution at decent frame rates.
But now, you get an option for an OLED panel at 240Hz and a more reasonable resolution of 2400 x 1600. That means OLED made for gaming, for the first time. Razer is among the first to offer this panel option, ensuring that the Razer Blade 15 continues the trend of using the most advanced screens available.
So, how does it look? Well, pretty incredible, as you can imagine. This is the best screen on a gaming laptop I’ve ever tested. Color saturation and contrast are off the charts. I’ve never seen a gaming laptop with a screen this well-calibrated, in particular, one sporting a Delta-E of just 0.52.
I also enjoy the fact that this is a glossy display. That’s true of all OLED displays that currently exist, but this is a true gaming laptop — and the glossy screen delivers clearer and bolder visuals than a matte finish ever could. You’re not seeing the screen through a textured filter that dampens the contrast of this glorious panel. The trade-off, of course, is dealing with reflections and glare. And there’s plenty of it. The max brightness of 398 nits does help in that regard, but you’ll still find yourself adjusting the screen or moving away from windows, especially if you’re gaming or watching movies.
HDR brings colors to life and exposes new detail in scenes.
The best hidden feature of this screen, though, is HDR support. It’s not upfront in the marketing, and the panel hasn’t been certified by DisplayHDR. But the combination of the incredible contrast of OLED and a peak HDR brightness of 620 nits means it produces some really solid HDR performance — and it looks fantastic. Colors come to life, you see new detail in scenes, and the lighting feels so much more realistic. It’s hard to describe in words or capture in photos, but if you’ve never gamed in HDR , you don’t know what you’re missing.
Of course, 620 nits of peak brightness isn’t as high as your favorite TV, a gaming monitor like the Alienware 34 QD-OLED , or even an XDR panel on the MacBook Pro.
 But even as is, this is some of the best HDR performance I’ve experienced on a gaming laptop.
 And, of course, that HDR goodness applies to other forms of content too, whether that’s movies or YouTube videos.
Performance and battery life Image used with permission by copyright holder As this 240Hz OLED panel is fairly exclusive, Razer only offers it on a single configuration. You can only get the 240Hz OLED panel paired with an RTX 3070 Ti. A more powerful RTX 3080 Ti option is missing, which is unfortunate. This is a powerful gaming laptop , no doubt, but the 3070 Ti can’t make use of the 240Hz quite as well as a 3080 Ti would have. With the RTX 3070 Ti, you’ll have to turn down graphics settings in most games significantly to get over 200 frames per second (fps) — especially when playing at the native 1600p resolution.
The Razer Blade 15 is still a performer, though in many AAA games, you’ll want to drop either the resolution or the graphics settings to get over 60 fps.
Red Dead Redemption 2 , for example, only averaged 53 fps at 1600p at Ultra settings.
Assassin’s Creed Valhalla averaged 70 fps at the Ultra High settings preset, and dropping it down to 1080p brought that up to 80 fps.
Lighter fast-paced titles like Fortnite or Civilization VI are where the laptop thrives and makes better use of that high refresh rate.
Your time working in your favorite coffee shop might be limited due to the battery life.
Beyond just frame rates, the Razer Blade suffers from some of the same issues the design has always had. It gets very hot during gameplay, to the point where it’s uncomfortable. Touching the area in between the hinge and keyboard could seriously hurt you, and while the keyboard and palm rests aren’t as bad, it’s probably enough to make you limit the length of your game sessions.
One of the downsides of this screen is battery life. The Razer Blade 15 has never been great in battery life, but this high-resolution, high refresh rate OLED screen takes it a step down further. This model of the Razer Blade 15 only lasts around four hours in light web browsing or five hours in local video playback. Of course, you won’t be gaming without being plugged into the wall, but if you’re planning on using this as a work laptop too, you’ll want to keep that in mind. Your time working in your favorite coffee shop might be limited. The Razer Blade 14 remains the far better choice when it comes to battery life.
More of the same Image used with permission by copyright holder I won’t get into every detail of this design, because many of its elements haven’t changed for many, many years. It’s thin and light, yes, though the Razer Blade 14 is now the go-to option in that realm. Other things I continue to love about this design include the excellent port selection (which includes a full-size SD card slot), the solid 1080p webcam, and the up-firing speakers. They still can’t compete with the MacBook Pro, but they’re some of the better speakers you’ll find on a gaming laptop.
The keyboard continues to be a highlight too. Razer’s optical-mechanical keyboard has been around for years by now, but it remains one of my favorite keyboards to type on. It feels tactile in a way that many keyboards don’t, even if the “click” sound is artificial.
The touchpad remains large and precise, though the palm rejection still hasn’t been fixed. It’s been an issue with the Razer Blade laptops for years now, and yet my palms deliver accidental clicks while typing every once in a while. It’s frustrating, especially given how long it’s been a problem.
The best Razer Blade yet? Digital Trends The OLED 240Hz Razer Blade 15 is the best in the line yet. It doesn’t fix some of the problems that the Razer Blade has always had, but it heightens the gaming experience in a major way thanks to this screen.
Then again, it’s also one of the most expensive configurations in the lineup, coming in at $3,300. That’s $300 more than the 1440p 240Hz model — and in my opinion, it’s worth that price difference simply for the ability to enjoy HDR gaming.
Then again, it should be noted that the MSI Raider GE67 HX features this same panel for a much lower price. That’s a heftier laptop without the bells and whistles of the Razer design, but if it’s just performance and fantastic image quality that you’re looking for, the MSI model might provide more value than the Razer Blade 15. That’s typical for the Razer brand, but certainly something to keep in mind if you’re interested in this screen in particular.
Editors' Recommendations Best Black Friday gaming laptop deals: Cheapest prices today Best gaming laptop deals: Game on the go from just $550 Trump’s lawyer brought a gaming laptop to $250M fraud trial This Acer OLED laptop (almost) beats the MacBook Air 15 — and it’s cheaper Acer’s new gaming laptop bring Nvidia RTX 40-series GPUs under $1,000 Laptop Reviews Laptops PC Gaming Product Reviews Computing Dell's XPS 15 has found its place on a number of our best-of lists, including best laptops and best 15-inch laptops. There are a number of reasons for those accolades, including a robust, yet relatively thin and light design, as well as strong performance and lovely displays.
But that doesn't mean it faces no competition. HP's Envy 16 2023 is a 16-inch laptop that gives the XPS 15 a run for its money. It's around the same price and offers similar or better performance. Is that enough to replace the XPS 15 on our lists? Specs and configurations Computing Starfield will undoubtedly be one of the biggest game releases of the year, and to experience it in its full glory, you'll need some serious horsepower. We've rounded up five of the best gaming laptops that should be able to chew through the game on release day.
We review dozens of gaming laptops each year, and Starfield is shaping up to challenge even the most powerful hardware. Here are the gaming laptops that can stand up to the game and still deliver great performance.
Computing We haven’t seen any promising gaming laptops with liquid cooling, but Lenovo might make that happen very soon. According to a report, the company has plans to launch the Legion 9i, its newest flagship gaming notebook that will feature a water-cooling solution.
The upcoming laptop is expected to feature the 13th generation Intel Core i9-13980HX, the highest-rated mobile processor offered by team blue. It is expected to be paired with the top-of-the-line Nvidia RTX 4090 mobile with 16GB of GDDR6 VRAM. This, in itself, makes it the most powerful gaming notebook on the market. However, Lenovo is taking things to the next level by incorporating a unique water-cooling solution that will additionally help in maintaining a slim profile of just 18.9mm. Thus, not only will it feature the most high-end processing chips, but it will also be the slimmest one in its category.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
