Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Share Wi-Fi Password on iPhone How to Restart iPhone Screen Record on iPhone Back Up an iPhone Clear Cache on iPhone Share Location on iPhone Home Mobile Products The best Apple Arcade games you should play right now By Jesse Lennox Close The iPhone has always been a great place for gamers, but Apple Arcade puts a new spin on things. After a free one-month trial, it costs $5 per month to subscribe, but that fee gives you and your family unrestricted access to a wonderland of great games with no in-app subscriptions or advertisements in sight. The service launched with more than 100 new and exclusive games alongside a few familiar titles from other platforms, and more are being added all the time. Apple Arcade works on the iPhone, iPad, and Apple TV, but also on Macs and the iPod Touch.
To help you get started, we’ve picked out our favorites, the cream of the crop. These are the best Apple Arcade games you can play right now. You may also want to check out our picks for the best iPhone games.
Further reading The best games on Google Play Pass The best free iPhone games Everything you need to know about the iPhone SE LEGO Builder's Journey PC (Microsoft Windows), Mac, iOS, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X|S Puzzle, Adventure, Indie Light Brick Studio The LEGO Group December 20, 2019 Read less Exit the Gungeon PC (Microsoft Windows), iOS, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Nintendo Switch Shooter, Platform, Adventure, Indie, Arcade Singlecore Games, Dodge Roll Devolver Digital September 19, 2019 Read less Pilgrims Linux, PC (Microsoft Windows), Mac, iOS, Nintendo Switch Point-and-click, Puzzle, Adventure, Indie Amanita Design Amanita Design October 05, 2019 Read less Bleak Sword Mac, iOS Hack and slash/Beat 'em up, Indie more8bit Devolver Digital September 19, 2019 Read less Manifold Garden PC (Microsoft Windows), Mac, iOS, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X|S Puzzle, Adventure, Indie William Chyr Studio William Chyr Studio October 18, 2019 Read less Super Mega Mini Party iOS Red Games CO, LLC November 01, 2019 Read less WHAT THE GOLF? Linux, PC (Microsoft Windows), Mac, iOS, Nintendo Switch Puzzle, Simulator, Sport, Adventure, Indie, Arcade Triband Fig Publishing Inc., FoxNext Games, Triband September 19, 2019 Read less Sayonara Wild Hearts PC (Microsoft Windows), Mac, iOS, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Nintendo Switch Music, Adventure, Indie, Arcade Simogo Annapurna Interactive September 19, 2019 Read less Oceanhorn 2: Knights of the Lost Realm Mac, iOS, Nintendo Switch Role-playing (RPG), Adventure, Indie Cornfox & Bros.
Cornfox & Bros., FDG Entertainment September 19, 2019 Read less ChuChu Rocket! Universe Mac, iOS Puzzle Hardlight Sega September 19, 2019 Read less Skate City PC (Microsoft Windows), iOS, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Nintendo Switch Simulator, Sport, Indie, Arcade Room 8 Studio, Agens Snowman September 14, 2019 Read less Where Cards Fall PC (Microsoft Windows), Mac, iOS, Nintendo Switch Platform, Puzzle, Adventure, Indie The Game Band Snowman September 19, 2019 Read less Sneaky Sasquatch Mac, iOS Arcade RAC7 Games September 19, 2019 Read less Spek Mac, iOS Puzzle RAC7 Games RAC7 Games September 19, 2019 Read less Cat Quest II PC (Microsoft Windows), iOS, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Nintendo Switch Role-playing (RPG), Adventure, Indie The Gentlebros Pte. Ltd.
PQube, Flyhigh Works, The Gentlebros Pte. Ltd.
September 19, 2019 This is a cat-themed, action-fantasy RPG — and you really don’t need to know any more. With adorably cute graphics and a plethora of hilarious feline puns paired with a surprisingly deep, classic RPG underneath, Cat Quest 2 is purrfect for a spot of mobile gaming. This time around, a doggo accompanies our feline protagonist and you can switch between them or, even better, play co-op with a friend. There are magic powers to acquire, or you can accumulate heavy armor and a dangerous arsenal as you loot dungeons, fight a vast array of different monsters, and try to use the environment to your advantage. You’ll enjoy Cat Quest best as a co-op experience and it’s a great game for kids and adults alike. Once you start your Cat Quest 2 journey, you’ll never want to leave the dreamy world of Felingard (and beyond).
Read less Assemble With Care PC (Microsoft Windows), iOS Puzzle, Indie Ustwo Games Ustwo Games September 19, 2019 Read less Butter Royale iOS January 24, 2020 Read less Editors' Recommendations The best iPhone 15 case Black Friday deals you can buy now The 22 best Apple Watch faces you should be using Best iPad deals: Save on 10.2-inch iPad, iPad Pro, and more The best tablets in 2023: top 11 tablets you can buy now The best phones in 2023: our 15 favorite smartphones right now Gaming Apple Apple iPad Apple iPhone Best Products Mobile If you can no longer wait for Black Friday to buy a new smartphone, the good news is that you can already take advantage of some early Black Friday phone deals. We're not sure until when they'll remain available, and if their prices will change once the shopping holiday arrives, but if you're interested in any of the offers that we've highlighted below, it's highly recommended that you proceed with the purchase immediately.
Apple iPhone 15 -- $60 per month Mobile Waiting on an iPhone upgrade? Now is the time to pounce, as the newest additions to Apple's legendary roster were confirmed at its September 2023 event. The belles of the ball this year have to be the upgraded iPhone 15 and iPhone 15 Plus models, which have finally received the design update the iPhone 14 Pro and iPhone 14 Pro Max received last year. Now equipped with the Dynamic Island across the hole-punch selfie camera, the gulf between the iPhone and iPhone Pro has lessened again.
If you're eagerly awaiting your upgrade, or if this is your first iPhone, you'll be wanting to keep it safe. Smartphones tend to be with us throughout our day, and that means they can fall prey to any one of a number of hazards. Bumps, drops, even scratches from sharing your pocket with keys or coins; the list is near endless. The last thing you want is for your new phone to end up scratched, chipped, or even completely broken. Thankfully, a good protective case can stop that from happening. Here are some of the best Apple iPhone 15 cases you can buy right now.
Mobile When you have the best iPhone, you pretty much have infinite possibilities for keepingbusy and entertained, no matter where you are. Sure, the iPhone may not be marketed as a gaming phone specifically, but it's pretty powerful — especially with the A17 Pro in the latest iPhone 15 Pro. That new processor means the Apple mobile gaming experience is only getting better and better, with Apple's new chip being able to play console-level games like Assassin's Creed Mirage and the Resident Evil 4 remake.
While those games aren't available yet, there's no shortage of great games to play. But when the App Store has over a million apps, how are you supposed to find the best games to play? Don't worry -- we're here to help! Since there are a ton of games out there — and not every game is a winner — it's definitely hard to find games that are worth your time and energy. Whether you're looking for a simple match 3, an MMORPG, a dungeon crawler, or even something to just relax with, here are the best iPhone games you can play right now.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
