Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Alienware Aurora R15 review: fixing a critical issue By Jacob Roach Close $1,650.00 Massive configuration options Cool and quiet operation Up to an RTX 4090 GPU Faster DDR5 memory options Mostly tool-less servicing Proprietary design limits upgrades Overreaching software The Alienware design has become iconic, but it hasn’t always aligned with recent trends in PC building, which is why it’s slowly fallen off of the list of the best desktops.
 The Aurora R15 looks like the same machine we’ve had for several generations, just with updated components under the hood, but it’s a deceptively big update to Alienware’s storied gaming desktop.
Alienware Aurora R15 specs Familiar design, updated trimmings Problematic upgrade choices Flagship processor performance High-end gaming Frustrating software Should you buy the Alienware Aurora R15? A larger liquid cooler helps the machine stay cooler and quieter than any previous Alienware desktop, and the careful tweaking of the design makes upgrades much easier than they previously were. Some old habits still die hard, but there’s no denying that the Aurora R15 is an impressive next step for Dell-owned Alienware and a performant monster of a gaming PC.
Steam Deck OLED fixes the worst part of Valve’s handheld 23% of PC gamers probably can’t play Alan Wake 2. Here’s why GPU prices and availability (Q4 2023): How much are GPUs today? Alienware Aurora R15 specs Jacob Roach / Digital Trends The Alienware Aurora R15 is a machine you can configure in virtually any way you want. The base configuration starts with an Intel Core i5-13400F and RTX 3050 for $1,650, but you can go much further; up to 64GB of DDR5 memory, 6TB of storage, and a Intel Core i9-13900KF or AMD Ryzen 9 7950X.
You have a wide range of graphics options, from Nvidia’s lowly RTX 3050 and AMD’s RX 6500 XT, all the way up to an AMD RX 6900 XT or Nvidia RTX 4090. The prices aren’t bad for last-gen GPUs, either, but I have a bone to pick with the two RTX 40-series offerings. To add one to your system, you’ll spend more than buying the GPU outright. The RTX 4080 is a $1,250 upcharge ($50 over list price) and the RTX 4090 is a $1,730 upcharge ($130 over list price).
CPU Intel Core i9-13900KF GPU Nvidia RTX 4090 Motherboard Custom Alienware motherboard Case Custom Alienware Aurora case Memory 32GB DDR5-5200 (2 x 16GB) Storage 1TB NVMe SSD, 1TB 7,200RPM HDD Power supply Custom Alienware 1,350W PSU USB ports 5x USB 3, 4x USB 2, 3x USB-C, 3x DisplayPort, 1x HDMI Networking Gigabit Ethernet, Wi-Fi 6E, Bluetooth 5.2 Price (base/as configured) $1,650/$4,568 Those prices are on top of the base price you’re spending for an RTX 3050 as well, so it’s hard to see that as much more than inflating the price (especially given Dell’s access to this flagship hardware).
The core components aren’t the issue here, though. If you want a flagship CPU, you’ll also need Alienware’s Cyro-tech CPU cooling to keep things quiet (a $200 upcharge, plus an additional $50 with a 1,350-th power supply). Similarly, you can configure the system with dual hard drives, but only with a PCIe SSD paired with a spinning hard drive. That’s a tough pill to swallow for a machine that costs thousands of dollars in 2023.
Familiar design, updated trimmings Jacob Roach / Digital Trends The Aurora R15 looks just like the AMD-exclusive R14 and the Intel-based R13, but it features some critical changes. Externally, it’s the aggressive, undeniable Alienware Legend 2.0 design language: a slanted design with hexagonal vents, alien branding around the machine, and a case available in Alienware’s classic Lunar Light or Dark Side of the Moon color options.
You’ll find the changes internally, and they’re the main draw. Alienware overhauled the cooling solution, and the Aurora R15 now features an optional 240mm all-in-one liquid cooler paired with three additional 120mm fans: two intakes upfront and an additional exhaust in the rear.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Combined with heatsinks on the motherboard and additional vents in the case, the Aurora R15 runs much cooler and quieter than the previous generation. Even under a demanding Cinebench load or Cyberpunk 2077 run, the Aurora R15 stayed just as quiet as the HP Omen 45L , which means it’s barely noticeable. The CPU stayed cool, too, peaking at around 87 degrees Celsius.
That’s chilly for Intel’s latest flagship.
It’s a huge improvement. Alienware desktops have always struggled with thermals and noise, but the Aurora R15 feels like a revelation for the brand in effectively dealing with heat. The downside is that improvements aren’t free. The dreaded 120mm liquid cooler is stock on the AMD configuration, while the Intel build starts with air cooling. You need to upgrade to fully appreciate the improvements Alienware has brought to this machine.
Problematic upgrade choices Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Alienware desktops aren’t usually friendly to upgrades, and the Aurora R15 doesn’t change that. If you want to tinker and upgrade, a custom desktop like the Maingear Vybe offers a lot more flexibility.
Still, there’s a set of buyers who want a desktop that just works.
And at the very least, Alienware doesn’t get in the way of servicing the machine. With a single screw and a lever pull, you can take off the side panel and access all of your components. You can dig deeper with Dell’s detailed service manual for the desktop, but you don’t need to. Everything is upfront.
That doesn’t mean it’s easy to access. Alienware locks most of your components down with brackets and plastic tabs that are designed for a service technician and not a DIY PC enthusiast. Simple tasks like removing the graphics card involves several steps in the Aurora R15, and you’ll often have to remove several components to access others. It’s all possible, just not ideal.
Upgrades are still possible — you can swap out the CPU, GPU, RAM, and storage easily, even if there isn’t much of a need with flagship hardware like the RTX 4090.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends It’s hard to expand on the Aurora R15, though. For example, the second NVMe SSD slot doesn’t include a thermal pad, despite the fact that it would take only a few minutes to install an additional drive. Alienware is also using a proprietary motherboard design, fit with proprietary connectors, making the chassis useless once the platform has matured past its prime. The server-style power supply limits upgrade potential as well.
The upside to Alienware’s proprietary approach is a dedicated design that limits cable mess and leaves you with exactly what you need. But as with previous Alienware desktops, this one will eventually end up in a recycling pile instead of being carried several generations in the future.
Flagship processor performance Jacob Roach / Digital Trends With an Intel Core i9-13900KF, 32GB of DDR5, and an RTX 4090, it’s no surprise that the Aurora R15 is a monster for productivity performance. Compared to last-gen’s Core i9-12900K in the HP Omen 45L, the newer processor dominates in multi-core operations and comes with a significant boost to single-core speed.
The Core i9-13900K is the best processor on the market right now, so the flagship performance doesn’t come as a shock. It’s also a much more capable CPU than gaming chips like the Ryzen 7 5800X3D that shows up in the Falcon Northwest Tiki.
Alienware Aurora R15 (Core i9-13900KF) HP Omen 45L (Core i9-12900K) Falcon Northwest Tiki (Ryzen 7 5800X3D) Cinebench R23 Multi-Core 34,3211 23,068 14,544 Cinebench R23 Single-Core 2,171 1,893 1,460 Geekbench 5 Multi-Core 21,535 15,685 10,633 Geekbench 5 Single-Core 2,113 1,910 1,599 PugetBench for Premiere Pro 1,309 1,025 880 Blender Monster (GPU) 6,500.8 N/A 2,809 Blender Junkshop (GPU) 3,049.3 N/A 1,600 Blender Classroom (GPU) 3,119.9 N/A 1,375 Your performance will hinge on the processor you put in the machine, but the the Aurora R15 is still a high-end desktop regardless. You have the option between 13th-gen Intel processors or AMD’s latest Ryzen 7000 CPUs, both of which are great options, as well as fast DDR5 memory.
High-end gaming Jacob Roach / Digital Trends The RTX 4090 is by far the most powerful graphics card you can buy, and it shines in the Aurora R15. In some cases, the Aurora R15 even beat a custom RTX 4090 desktop with an AMD Ryzen 9 7950X, as evidenced by Red Dead Redemption 2.
The same was true in Cyberpunk 2077 and Assassin’s Creed Valhalla, though to a lesser degree. The processor inside the Alienware Aurora R15 is likely boosting the performance here, as well Dell’s excellent thermal management.
Compared to the HP Omen 45L with an RTX 3090, it isn’t close; Nvidia’s latest GPUs blow away the previous generation. However, the Aurora R15 isn’t flat-out better than a custom RTX 4090 desktop.
Alienware Aurora R15 (RTX 4090) HP Omen 45L (RTX 4090) Custom RTX 4090 desktop (Ryzen 9 7950X) Cyberpunk 2077 (4K Ultra) 83.2 fps 44.5 fps 75.7 fps Cyberpunk 2077 (4K Ultra RT) 43.1 fps 21.3 fps 41.9 fps Red Dead Redemption 2 (4K Ultra) 127.3 fps 66.9 fps 119.2 fps Forza Horizon 5 (4K Ultra) 151.9 fps 85.6 fps 176.3 fps Assassin’s Creed Valhalla (4K Ultra High) 120.4 fps 66 fps 116.7 fps Gears Tactics (4K Ultra) 136.9 fps 77.6 fps 171.7 fps 3DMark Time Spy 29,597 19,113 31,409 In Gears Tactics, I saw vastly lower performance, likely due to the thermal limits Alienware has set on the processor.
Forza Horizon 5 showed slower performance, too, though this game typically favors AMD processors.
Even with a few differences, the Aurora R15 offers performance worthy of the best gaming desktops.
 The big shame is that Dell isn’t offering AMD’s new RX 7900 XTX as a GPU option. The RTX 4080 and RTX 4090 are supremely powerful GPUs, but they’re also a costly upgrade in the Aurora R15.
Frustrating software Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Although extra software is usually a bad thing, Alienware isn’t too intrusive on the Aurora R15. Non-intrusive doesn’t mean helpful, though, and that’s where the Aurora R15 struggles.
When you first boot up the machine, you’re met with the My Alienware app. It’s a hub that links out to Dell SupportAssist for help, manuals to learn your system, and the Alienware Command Center, where you can customize lighting effects and tweak your overclocking settings.
There are around half a dozen Dell and Alienware apps preinstalled on the machine, which is frustrating, but none of them are set to run automatically at startup. My main issue is that Alienware doesn’t point you in the direction that matters.
My Alienware doesn’t list the Alienware Update app that fetches critical updates for your machine, nor Nvidia’s GeForce Experience. My machine arrived with a GPU driver update, as well as a download for the Intel Dynamic Tuning driver. No big deal, GPU driver updates are normal on prebuilt desktops, but nothing notified me of these updates. I had to search for them manually.
Critical updates are ignored, which could easily lead buyers into thinking their expensive gaming desktop is broken.
That was a problem, too. In Cyberpunk 2077, the option for Nvidia’s widely advertised Deep Learning Super Sampling (DLSS) was grayed out, and Premiere Pro refused to load due to the older, preinstalled graphics driver. If you don’t know about driver updates or GeForce Experience, it’s not going to feel good to find critical features don’t work, with no guidance to solve the problem.
With the My Alienware app and the slew of apps that come preinstalled on the system, it’s not hard for Alienware to point you toward critical updates. Instead, they’re ignored, which could easily lead buyers into thinking their expensive gaming desktop is broken when it’s perfectly fine.
Should you buy the Alienware Aurora R15? Jacob Roach / Digital Trends / Digital Trends Alienware has long had a problem with proprietary components and expensive pricing, but the R15 revision of the Aurora fixes the biggest issue that has faced Alienware desktops: thermals and noise.
The upgraded cooler is a huge jump for the machine, offering cooler and quieter performance than even many custom-built gaming PCs. Building your own or going with a desktop like the MSI Aegis RS offers more paths for upgradability, but the Aurora R15 still has a place for a set of gamers who want a gaming PC that does exactly what it advertises.
Editors' Recommendations A typo is ruining this $700 Asus motherboard — but there’s a fix Best Alienware deals: Save on gaming laptops and PCs today Alienware is playing coy with its two new QD-OLED monitors AMD finally announced the GPU I’ve waited months for 10 best gaming monitors of 2023: tested and reviewed Dell Desktop Reviews PC PC Gaming Product Reviews Windows Reviews Computing It seems Nvidia is feeling some pressure from AMD. The popular RTX 4070 is now readily available for $50 below its list price of $600, likely in response to AMD's recently released RX 7800 XT.
You can find models in stock at various retailers like Newegg and Amazon, as first spotted by Wccftech. The shift comes just days after AMD released its $500 RX 7800 XT, which beats the RTX 4070 in a head-to-head matchup. Ahead of this launch, prices on Nvidia's RTX 4060 Ti 16GB also dropped, bringing the card from $500 down to $450.
Computing Nvidia has been taking a beating lately with its graphics cards, at least if you believe the reviews. On the financial side, however, Nvidia is still bringing in the cash with its controversial RTX 4060 family.
The company released its earnings for the second quarter of fiscal 2024 (or, in real life, the third quarter of 2023). Unsurprisingly, Nvidia brought in a ton of money overall -- a new record at $13.51 billion, which is 101% higher than a year ago, largely due to the AI boom. What's surprising is that Nvidia's gaming revenue is up, too.
Computing Nvidia introduced its Deep Learning Super Sampling 3 (DLSS 3) not too long ago, but the feature is already getting a major update. DLSS 3.5 will launch this fall, seemingly alongside Cyberpunk 2077: Phantom Liberty, and it adds something totally new to Nvidia's storied RTX feature.
Ray Reconstruction is what's new. At a high level, Ray Reconstruction enables greater levels of ray tracing quality without hurting your performance (in some cases, it can even improve performance). Nvidia is billing this as an image quality improvement over traditional ray tracing methods, not as a way to improve performance, however.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
