Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? HP Omen 45L review: A master class in prebuilt gaming PCs By Jacob Roach Close $2,300.00 Excellent CPU cooling solution Tool-less design Upgradable with off-the-shelf parts Great gaming performance Doesn't get too loud Extra hard drive bays Limited number of USB ports No DDR5 option Bloatware is a little annoying The HP Omen 30L sits at the top of our best gaming desktop list. It’s not tied or barely hanging on to a spot — it’s the best option if you’re looking for a prebuilt gaming desktop. The Omen 45L, announced at CES 2022 , aims to make the best better. And across the board, it succeeds.
Design Specs and internals Upgradeability Connectivity Gaming performance Productivity performance Software Our take No gaming desktop is perfect, especially the prebuilt ones, but the Omen 45L improves on its predecessor in almost every way. It has a unique cooling design that actually pays off in thermals; the tool-less case is even easier to get inside; and the performance, although occasionally hamstrung by memory speed, is worthy of the hardware inside.
The best all-AMD gaming PCs in 2022 HP’s new all-in-one PCs include wireless charging stands Razer Project Sophia puts a PC and OLED screen into a modular desk The HP Omen 30L is no longer the best gaming desktop on the market. HP has outclassed itself, and even considering the minor issues with the Omen 45L, it’s the gaming PC you should buy if you don’t want to — or more likely, can’t — build a gaming rig right now.
Design Jacob Roach / Digital Trends / Digital Trends The HP Omen 45L doesn’t look like a normal gaming PC. It’s taller than a standard mid-tower thanks to the Cryo Chamber on top, but the PC doesn’t feel much bigger once it’s all set up. It’s only 18 inches long and 21.75 inches tall, which is only a couple of inches taller than a mid-tower PC case.
Over last year’s Omen 30L, the biggest change with the Omen 45L is the Cryo Chamber. It looks silly at first, but I grew to appreciate the small gap thanks to its thermal performance. The top chamber holds the 240mm all-in-one (AIO) liquid cooler, only connected to the main machine through a thin routing channel where the tubes run.
This fixes the biggest issue with the Omen 30L. It’s a similar idea as the fanless, breathing PC we saw from DIY Perks earlier this year. Regardless of the orientation of the AIO, it’s always drawing in cold air and exhausting hot air away from the other components.
That made a big difference in my testing. During a 30-minute AIDA64 stress test, the CPU immediately climbed to 89 degrees Celsius and the fans ramped up to max speed. Much to my surprise, the fans calmed down after about a minute and the CPU nestled into a comfortable 65 degrees Celsius. There weren’t ramps up and down in between, either — the Omen 45L rode out that temperature for the rest of the test without even a whisper of extra fan noise.
HP is selling the Omen 45L case alone, and honestly, I might pick one up.
It’s a massive improvement over the Omen 30L , where we saw the Core i9-10900K reach temperatures nearing 97 degrees Celsius and fan noise that was “scary loud.” The Omen 45L was almost silent when playing games, and when the fans ramped up, they didn’t become too distracting. HP is actually selling the Omen 45L case alone, and honestly, I might pick one up.
Outside of thermal and noise improvements, the Omen 45L keeps the same design language as the Omen 30L. It’s still a sleek black case with a bright Omen diamond on top. The main difference is the inclusion of three 120mm ARGB fans, which shine through the tinted tempered glass on the front.
The design is similar, but HP made a lot of changes to the case. The front intakes are now completely open to allow more air through, and the dust filters (one in the front and one under the power supply) are now removable. HP also improved the tool-less entry, which I’ll talk more about in the next section.
This is the type of iterative improvement I like to see. HP didn’t ditch what made the Omen 30L look great. Instead, the company built on that design by making smart thermal and quality of life changes that pay dividends. We always hear about improved thermal designs with new gaming desktops. But HP actually delivered on that promise in a big way.
Specs and internals Jacob Roach / Digital Trends The Omen 45L comes with the best hardware you can buy right now. At the heart of my test system was the Core i9-12900K paired with an RTX 3090 and 64GB of DDR4-3733 memory. HP isn’t offering this as a set configuration, though you can build an exact match with HP’s customization options for around $5,000.
HP has much cheaper options, too. With a Ryzen 7 5800X, RTX 3070, and 16GB of memory, you’ll pay around $2,300. You have the freedom to build the PC you want, though. HP is offering the Omen 45L with either an Intel or AMD chip, as well as either an Nvidia or AMD graphics card. AMD cards are limited to the Radeon RX 6700 XT , but otherwise, HP has all of the most recent flagship hardware on offer.
CPU Intel Core i9-12900K GPU Nvidia GeForce RTX 3090 Motherboard HP 8917 Micro ATX Z690 Case HP Omen 45L ATX case Memory 64GB HyperX DDR4-3733 Storage 2x 2TB WD_Black PCIe Gen4 Power supply Cooler Master 800W 80 Plus Gold USB ports 4x USB 3.2, 4x USB 2.0, 2x USB-C Networking 1x Gigabit Ethernet As with the Omen 30L, there’s nothing proprietary inside the Omen 45L. The graphics card and motherboard are made by HP, but you could always swap them out or put them in another machine. That’s a big plus over machines like the Alienware Aurora that uses its own motherboard design.
HP says it wants the Omen 45L to feel like a DIY PC, and it does.
More than the standardized components, I appreciated how HP flexed its suite of brands to bring branded components to the Omen 45L. You get HyperX memory, not no-name modules that could’ve been sourced from anywhere, and you get a Cooler Master power supply and cooler, not components that come with obscure companies that deal specifically with manufacturers. HP says it wants the Omen 45L to feel like a DIY PC, and it does.
There are some problems, though. HP chose a Micro ATX motherboard instead of a full-size ATX one. The case supports an ATX board, but you can’t buy one from HP. This is a machine that can come with the best hardware on the market, and it deserves a full ATX board like the Asus ROG GA35 offers.
It also only comes with DDR4 memory. Even if you choose a 12th-gen Alder Lake CPU , you can’t add DDR5 unless you buy a separate motherboard and memory on your own. DDR5 is obscenely expensive right now, so I understand why HP chose to stick with DDR4. Still, that has an impact on performance, which I’ll dig into in my benchmarks below.
Upgradeability Jacob Roach / Digital Trends / Digital Trends Like the Omen 30L, the Omen 45L has a tool-less design. Outside of the screws for your motherboard and cooler, you don’t need anything to get inside the case and move parts around. There are two buttons under the Cryo Chamber for the side panels, as well as two buttons toward the front to snap off the front panel.
Even without instruction, I was inside the Omen 45L in seconds. Beyond being tool-less, the design is intuitive. There’s never a question about which button you need to press thanks to clear labeling, and the tool-less mechanisms are of a high enough quality that you don’t feel like you’re going to break something. Prebuilt or not, this is how you should design a PC case.
HP tidied up the cables over the Omen 30L. There’s still a bit of a mess behind the back panel, but the cables are hidden, and it’s clear there was some effort to clean up the cable runs. HP even includes some extra SATA power and data cables dangling in the bottom of the machine if you want to occupy the two 3.5-inch and two 2.5-inch drive cages around the back.
The Omen 45L is a treat. Not only does it allow upgrades unlike its Alienware counterparts, it invites them. I’m partial to my Lian Li PC-011 Dynamic, but after using the Omen 45L, I’m seriously considering picking up the case on its own. It’s that good.
Connectivity Jacob Roach / Digital Trends The weakest aspect of the Omen 45L is connectivity. The Micro ATX motherboard is limited to the same number of ports as the Omen 30L, which stands out even more on this larger design. You should still have enough ports for everything, but you’ll need to break out a USB hub if you have a lot of dongles or USB accessories.
Over the Omen 30L, the new model adds two additional USB ports up front. The problem is that the new ports are locked at USB 2.0. I’ll never argue with more USB ports in front of a PC, but this doesn’t feel like much an addition. Where are the front panel USB-C ports? At the very least, HP could’ve added two more USB 3.2 ports to the front.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends The same is true around back. Just like the Omen 30L, you have two USB 3.2 ports (5Gbps and 10Gbps), two USB 2.0 ports, and two USB-C ports (5Gbps and 10Gbps). I like the inclusion of two USB-C ports, but I really wish one was on the front panel. The single upgrade in connectivity is inconsequential, and it feels like HP could’ve done a lot more here.
Gaming performance The HP Omen 45L is a gaming monster, and thankfully, the unfortunate state of DDR5 doesn’t have a massive impact on gaming performance. The model I reviewed came kitted out with a Core i9-12900K, 64GB of DDR4-3733 memory, and an RTX 3090. Although I ran benchmarks from 1080p to 4K, the results below are for 4K at the highest graphics preset.
HP Omen 45L Origin Neuron (Ryzen 9 5950X, RTX 3080 Ti) Custom PC (Core i9-12900K, RTX 3090, DDR5) Forza Horizon 4 159 fps 146 fps 160 fps Red Dead Redemption 2 76 fps 72 fps 79 fps Battlefield V 121 fps N/A N/A 3DMark Time Spy 18,523 17,937 19,511 Fortnite 82 fps 89 fps N/A Control non-RT 59 fps 55 fps N/A Control RT 37 fps 35 fps N/A Civilization VI (turn time in seconds, lower is better) 7.44 N/A 7.3 The RTX 3090 may be overkill for gaming, but it still rips games to shreds. Compared to the Origin Neuron with an RTX 3080 Ti, I saw improvements in Forza Horizon 4, Red Dead Redemption 2, and Control.
Fortnite was the only oddball, with my results from the Omen 45L sitting about 8% lower than the Origin Neuron.
Outside of the graphics card, the Core i9-12900K shows its power in the Omen 45L. My custom built PC has identical specs. The only difference is that it uses DDR5 memory instead of DDR4. You can see that having an impact in 3DMark Time Spy, with the Omen 45L sitting around 5% lower than my custom rig.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends The differences are minor otherwise. The difference of a few frames in Forza Horizon 4 and Red Dead Redemption 2 aren’t large enough to matter. For gaming at least, the Omen 45L offers comparable performance to building the same PC yourself — and that’s really what you want for a prebuilt gaming desktop.
DDR4 makes a difference, but it doesn’t matter in a lot of games. I tested an identical custom PC with DDR4 in 3DMark Time Spy and came out with a very similar score as the Omen 45L, showing that this benchmark cares about memory speed. A lot of games don’t, as showcased by Forza Horizon 4 and Red Dead Redemption 2.
The memory speed makes a much bigger difference in productivity apps, which is where the Omen 45L falls behind.
Productivity performance Jacob Roach / Digital Trends The Omen 45L is handicapped by DDR4. It has the fastest processor and graphics card on the market, and the results should reflect that. But they don’t. The slower memory holds the Omen 45L back from reaching its full potential, putting it on par with hardware that should, on paper, be less performant.
HP Omen 45L Origin Neuron (Ryzen 9 5950X, RTX 3080 Ti) Custom PC (Core i9-12900K, RTX 3090, DDR5) Cinebench R23 multi-core 23,068 25,166 27,344 Cinebench R23 single-core 1,893 1,587 1,989 Geekbench 5 multi-core 15,685 15,872 18,282 Geekbench 5 single-core 1,910 1,682 1,962 PugetBench for Premiere Pro 1,025 1,088 1,283 Blender (Average in seconds, lower is better) 51 53 N/A Handbrake (Seconds, lower is better) 51 50 47 PCMark 10 9,034 N/A 9,092 Cinebench shows the most stark difference. Although the Omen 45L still allows the single-core performance of the Core i9-12900K to shine through, the multi-core performance is about 16% behind what’s possible with DDR5. The same is true in PugetBench for Premiere Pro, where the Omen 45L trailed my custom PC by about 20%.
The Origin Neuron illustrates this point further. In Geekbench 5, for example, the Omen 45L matched the Origin Neuron in the multi-core test, but it should perform about 15% better. The single-core performance continues to show, but DDR4 is clearly a bottleneck for the Omen 45L.
It’s not a bottleneck across applications, though. My results in Handbrake, Blender, and PCMark 10 show only minor differences between the three machines. DDR5 makes a big difference with Alder Lake, but that difference isn’t consistent across apps.
HP isn’t offering the Omen 45L with DDR5, but there’s a good reason why.
DDR5 is expensive and in high demand, which would either delay the Omen 45L or drive up the price.
It makes sense, but the logistical machinations at HP don’t matter when $5,000 is on the line. Machines like the Origin Neuron are available with DDR5, even if it’s a premium. This is HP’s most performant desktop, and a couple of hundred dollars for DDR5 is insignificant considering the price set by HP.
Software Image used with permission by copyright holder The Omen 45L comes with HP Omen Gaming Hub, which is a lot more robust than I expected. True of other HP machines, though, it also came pre-installed with annoying bloatware, which interrupted my benchmarking with ads a number of times during testing.
It comes pre-loaded with ExpressVPN, Dropbox, and McAfee. I only saw ads for ExpressVPN and Dropbox once each, but McAfee popped up too many times to count. These are apps you may want to use, but I still don’t appreciate a $5,000 gaming PC coming preloaded with advertisements.
The Omen Gaming Hub makes up for that. Starting with the basics, the app allows you to monitor usage, active processes, temperatures, and basically all of the other vitals of your PC. It also includes integration with Intel XTU for overclocking, as well as lighting controls and a network monitor.
I appreciate having so much functionality in one spot with Gaming Hub.
Outside of the basics, the Gaming Hub serves as, well, a hub for your games. You can see and launch your installed titles, track play time, save screenshots, and even earn rewards for playing select titles (including free games). If you fancy MOBAs, you can use Mobalytics to see stats about your gameplay, too.
The Omen Gaming Hub isn’t essential, and in spots, it’s a little rough around the edges. But I still appreciate having so much functionality in one spot. These types of apps are usually nothing more than support hubs littered with advertisements. The Omen Gaming Hub is still a support hub and it still has ads, but that’s easy to overlook with how much else it offers.
Our take The Omen 45L takes an already great design and improves it. This could have just been a larger Omen desktop with space for more fans, but it’s not. HP brought tangible improvements to thermals and cable management, as well as built on the fantastic tool-less design introduced in the Omen 30L.
There are some issues — I would have liked more connectivity, and DDR4 can cripple the CPU in some applications. Still, it’s hard to stick on those points with how much else the Omen 45L offers. It’s a great performer overall, and the tool-less design makes upgrades easy down the line.
Are there any alternatives? Yes. The Origin Neuron and Asus GA35 are the most direct competitors, but neither come with the unique cooling design HP is offering. The case, at least, is unique to HP.
How long will it last? HP says the Omen 45L should feel like a DIY PC. The PC uses off-the-shelf parts, so you can upgrade it as long as you want. HP is even selling the case alone, so you could use it indefinitely as long as you continue to upgrade the parts inside.
As configured, you can expect the machine to hold up in demanding games and productivity apps for around five years. Make a CPU or GPU swap, though, and you can exponentially increase that lifespan.
Should you buy it? Yes. In the crowded market of gaming desktops, the HP Omen 45L stands out as one of the best desktop PCs with its tool-less design, excellent cooling solution, and dedication to upgradability. Outside of DDR4 and a slight lack of ports, it’s the perfect gaming desktop.
Editors' Recommendations Cooler Master’s Orb X gaming pod is futuristic and utterly absurd HP Omen 16 (2022) hands-on review: Cool and colorful This PC case emits animated holograms from both the side and top Gigabyte’s new Aorus gaming laptops pack some serious power Asus Zenbook 14X OLED Space Edition hands-on review: To the stars Desktop Reviews PC PC Gaming Product Reviews Windows Reviews Computing At CES 2022, Lenovo announced two new gaming mice alongside its range of other announcements -- the Legion M600s Wireless and the Legion M300s RGB.
The two mice look almost identical, sporting a more modern design and a light-up Legion logo. The wireless model only comes in reflective silver color, while the wired model is a choice of black or white. They're simple, but still, quite an improvement over the previous Legion mice.
Computing Lenovo has just unveiled several new gaming laptops from the Lenovo Legion line during CES 2022. The refreshed Legion family of laptops includes two 16-inch models dubbed Lenovo Legion 5i Pro and Legion 5 Pro as well as the 15-inch Lenovo Legion 5i/Legion 5.
All of the laptops come with some of the latest components, including Intel Alder Lake processors, DDR5 memory, and Nvidia's RTX 30-series mobility graphics cards.
Computing The line between TVs and monitors is blurring. And Samsung wants to remove that line entirely with Odyssey ARK gaming monitor.
It's a 55-inch OLED display that feels like a TV and a monitor at the same time. Also -- yes, it's a curved screen that can rotate vertically. I had the chance to try out the display at CES 2022, and it's as wild as Samsung makes it out to be.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
