Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best 1080p graphics cards in 2022: great options for Full HD By Jacob Roach and Monica J. White Close By far the most popular resolution for gaming is 1080p, which makes up about two-thirds of all monitor resolutions in Steam's most recent hardware survey.
 Although it's easy to get excited by the RTX 3080 Ti , the RX 6950 XT , or even the ultra high-end RTX 4090, they're overkill for gamers' favorite resolution. Our guide to the best 1080p graphics cards has a few more sensible options for Full HD.
We selected six GPUs that are not only capable of running games at Full HD but are capable of running them with high frame rates. The rise of high-refresh-rate monitors has pushed the goalpost back for 1080p, so our picks are targeted at gamers who don't mind sacrificing resolution for a big boost in frame rates.
The Nvidia RTX 3060 Ti is the best 1080p GPU. It's a little more expensive than the competition, but the card can absolutely shred Full HD. However, AMD has some interesting picks in this category too, and now, Intel also has a horse in this race. Here are the best graphics cards for 1080p.
More More More More Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Nvidia GeForce RTX 3060 Ti Best graphics card for 1080p Capable of running at 1440p Full access to Nvidia RTX features High frames in pretty much every 1080p game Not the most budget-friendly option Why you should buy this: It's easily the best GPU for 1080p gaming right now.
Who's it for: Gamers who want to hit high frame rates and may even dabble with 1440p gaming.
Why we picked the Nvidia GeForce RTX 3060 Ti: The Nvidia RTX 3060 Ti is the pinnacle of 1080p gaming -- and it's even capable of pushing resolutions to 1440p. Built using the Nvidia Ampere architecture, the card delivers the suite of RTX features, including real-time ray tracing and Deep Learning Super Sampling (DLSS) in supported games.
In our testing, the RTX 3060 Ti managed 152 frames per second (fps) in Battlefield V at 1080p Ultra settings and 73 fps in Cyberpunk 2077 at 1080p Epic settings. Across five games, the card sustained an average of 130.2 fps at 1080p.
That's without DLSS, too. Once you factor in Nvidia's A.I.-assisted upscaling tech, the RTX 3060 Ti has the range to blow away most games at 1080p while still handling 1440p with grace. If you want a 1080p card that will last for many generations to come, the RTX 3060 Ti is for you.
Image used with permission by copyright holder AMD Radeon RX 6600 XT Best AMD graphics card for 1080p Smooth gaming at 1080p Doesn't require a lot of power Capable of 1440p gaming Support for FidelityFX Super Resolution A little too expensive Lackluster content creation performance Poor ray tracing performance Why you should buy this: It's the best AMD GPU for 1080p gaming.
Who's it for: Gamers who prefer AMD to Nvidia.
Why we picked the AMD Radeon RX 6600 XT: While the AMD Radeon RX 6600 XT is often cheaper than the RTX 3060 Ti, it still takes a backseat because the RTX 3060 Ti can often offer better performance. Still, it's great for 1080p gaming. The card is targeted at 1080p monitors with high refresh rates, and it hits that market. Across a suite of five gaming benchmarks, the RX 6600 XT averaged 117.6 fps at 1080p, making it a great choice for a 144Hz monitor.
It features 32 of AMD's RDNA 2 compute units (CUs). Although it's one of the cheapest cards in the RX 6000 range, it still comes with the bells and whistles of the more premium offerings. That includes hardware-accelerated ray tracing in supported titles, though the ray tracing performance isn't as good as Nvidia's recent offerings.
In real-world tests, the RX 6600 XT was able to manage 68 fps in Red Dead Redemption 2 at Full HD with max settings, as well as 137 fps in Fortnite with the 1080p Epic preset.
More The best 1440p graphics cards: Sweet spot PC gaming Dan Baker/Digital Trends Nvidia GeForce RTX 2070 Super Best RTX 20 graphics card for 1080p Access to ray tracing and DLSS Often discounted Can run at 4K in some games Not worth it unless it's significantly cheaper than the RTX 3070 Aging GPU from two generations ago Why you should buy this: It's a budget-friendly alternative from an older generation that can still breeze through 1080p gaming.
Who's it for: Gamers who don't need the latest and greatest but want to score a good discount.
Why we picked the Nvidia GeForce RTX 2070 Super: The Nvidia RTX 2070 Super is a little overkill for 1080p -- though much less so than the newer RTX 3070. Since it's a card from two generations ago, you can usually pick up the RTX 2070 Super for less than the price of a new RTX 3070, and you still have access to RTX features like ray tracing and DLSS.
Over the base RTX 2070, the Super variant bumps up the CUDA cores count and clock speed, roughly matching the performance of a base RTX 2080. The card chewed through Fortnite at 1080p Epic with a 172 fps average. It's even capable of 4K in titles like Civilization VI if you pick up a 4K monitor down the line.
One thing to keep in mind is that if you find this card priced similarly to the RTX 3070, getting the RTX 3070 will be a better deal; however, you don't need a card that good to game at 1080p, so the RTX 3060 or 3060 Ti will be an even better option.
More Image used with permission by copyright holder AMD Radeon RX 5600 XT Best budget AMD graphics card for 1080p Usually very cheap Supports AMD's FSR Decent frames in 1080p and even 1440p It's quite outdated No ray tracing Why you should buy this: It's a solid last-gen AMD GPU that can offer 1080p gaming on a budget.
Who's it for: AMD enthusiasts who don't mind the lack of ray tracing.
Why we picked the AMD Radeon RX 5600 XT: AMD's Radeon RX 5600 XT is an aging graphics card, but it still performs at 1080p, and you can usually pick one up at a discount. Built on AMD's first-generation RDNA architecture, it doesn't support ray tracing. That said, it can still boost frame rates with AMD's FidelityFX Super Resolution (FSR).
In AnandTech's testing , the RX 5600 XT managed 76.4 fps in Assassin's Creed Odyssey on the Very High preset, and it even maintained a playable 50 fps at 1440p. In a less demanding title like Forza Horizon 4 , the card managed over 100 fps at 1080p with all the sliders cranked to max.
Much like the RTX 2070 Super, this card is only a good deal if it's priced reasonably. Depending on the price, you might be able to pick up the RX 5700 XT instead, which excels at both Full HD and 1440p.
More Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Intel Arc A750 Best budget graphics card for 1080p Great 1080p and 1440p gaming performance Competitive ray tracing performance Relatively inexpensive Resizable BAR is necessary XeSS needs some work Why you should buy this: It's a solid and highly affordable alternative to AMD and Nvidia.
Who's it for: Less demanding gamers who are up for trying out new technology.
Why we picked the Intel Arc A750: Intel is an entirely new player in the GPU market. While AMD and Nvidia have been releasing some of the best GPUs year after year for what feels like forever, Intel has just joined the scene with the Intel Arc lineup, including the Arc A770 and the Arc A750.
 The latter makes a fantastic option for 1080p gaming at a great price.
In our testing, we found that the Arc A750 outperformed the RTX 3060 and nearly caught up to the RX 6600. When it comes to gaming, it did a great job with modern titles like Cyberpunk 2077 , maintaining an average of 55.6 fps. In Forza Horizon 5 , those numbers are even higher, hitting 79.2 fps on average. The Intel Arc A750 also truly shines in Red Dead Redemption 2.
 On ultra settings at 1080p, the card managed a steady 85.9 fps, meaning smooth gameplay across the board.
Now, Intel Arc is still a bit of a gamble because it's very new. Intel is still working on performance in DirectX 11 and older games. However, if you want to try something new, it's priced super competitively for the performance that it offers.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Nvidia GeForce RTX 3060 Best mid-range graphics card for 1080p Cheaper than the RTX 3060 Ti More than enough for 1080p gaming Maintains high frame rates even in demanding titles Not quite as good as the RTX 3060 Ti Worse value when compared to better options Why you should buy this: It's an excellent card for 1080p and a cheaper alternative to the RTX 3060 Ti.
Who's it for: Users who would rather save a little on the GPU and don't need 1440p gaming.
Why we picked the Nvidia GeForce RTX 3060: The RTX 3060 is a disappointing card stacked up against the RTX 3060 Ti -- though it still delivers excellent 1080p performance. It's not quite as powerful as its older Ti sibling, but the RTX 3060 often comes in at around $100-$200 less and still supports RTX ray tracing and DLSS in supported titles.
In our testing, the card just barely scraped by Cyberpunk 2077 with a 59 fps average, and Cyberpunk is one of the most demanding games on PC. In the much less demanding Fortnite , the card managed a 132 fps average at 1080p Epic.
The real strength of the RTX 3060 comes in DLSS. It's capable of high frame rates at 1080p in most games. But in cases like Cyberpunk 2077 , where it couldn't maintain 60 fps, you can flick on DLSS to improve your frame rate without sacrificing too much image quality.
More Frequently Asked Questions Nvidia's RTX 3060 is not overkill for 1080p — it's just about what you might want to buy if you're looking for a modern rig that will last you for a few years. With that said, you can achieve decent frame rates with worse GPUs at that resolution, so if you're building a budget PC , there are cheaper alternatives to consider.
Intel's Arc A750 is an excellently priced option for strictly 1080p gaming; it can even handle some 1440p with relative ease. Similarly, if you're only gaming on 1080p, you can go back one generation and still achieve decent frame rates, even in newer titles. This is why we recommend graphics cards like the RTX 2070 Super (if you can find it at a discount) or the AMD Radeon RX 5600 XT.
While the card we're showing you above are some of the best value GPUs for this type of gaming, there are even older options that will do the job. However, it's usually simply not worth shopping for these anymore. If you're able to spend a little extra, sticking to relatively new technologies is the better option. For example, switching from an Nvidia GTX GPU to an RTX gives you access to Nvidia's new features, such as ray tracing and DLSS.
With that said, if you want a budget graphics card that will do a good job of 1080p and not much else, you can always pick up an Nvidia GeForce GTX 1050 Ti or GTX 1060. The latter is still a very popular GPU that can run some of the newest games on decent settings.
Editors' Recommendations These are the best graphics cards to use in an external GPU enclosure The best 1080p gaming monitors for 2022 Gaming Best Products GPUs PC Gaming Computing Lenovo is probably one of the best-known laptop makers, especially since they have an incredibly wide variety of them to choose from. That also means they have an excellent selection of gaming laptops, so you can hone in on something that fits your budget. That's especially the case with the ongoing early Black Friday deals that are seeing laptops being cut down in price across the board. That said, Lenovo's selection of gaming laptops is too wide for us to include all their active deals here, so we've selected some of our favorites for both AMD and Intel CPUs. Also, if you're not sure of where to start, you should check out our list of best Lenovo laptops for some good options.
Best Lenovo Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals (AMD) Lenovo has a wider selection of AMD gaming laptops, which is great if you want to go with something AMD-powered. Unfortunately, there aren't any good deals on Lenovo laptops with both an AMD CPU and GPU, but the selection below is wide enough to pick something that fits your needs a bit better. And, if you want something with an RTX 4090 on a budget, then the AMD version is probably the cheapest for Lenovo.
Computing Printers are complicated machines featuring a mix of plastics, metals, electronics, and components, some of which are potentially flagged as hazardous waste. In 2023, it's more important than ever to be kind to the planet, and there are several environmentally safe ways to dispose of a printer.
Even the best printers in the world can reach the end of their life after several years if ink or toner is no longer available. A well-loved printer can suffer from accumulated wear and tear or damage from a catastrophic power surge that's too expensive to repair.
Computing It's Black Friday, which means it is time to give expensive tech products and fun, but expensive, toys a second look. The right Black Friday deals are there to take these categories of products down in price. Where these categories of expensive tech and cool toys collide is the Meta Quest 2, a VR headset, and sure enough, it has a good sale going on over at Amazon right now. Normally $300, its price has dropped by $51 down to just $249, one of the best VR headset Black Friday deals we've seen. The really good news? This deal is here now, so you don't have to wait to buy it like you will with the rest of your post Thanksgiving shopping. In fact, if you tap the button below and buy now, and with a little shipping luck, you might have it by Thanksgiving to play with your family.
Why you should buy the Meta Quest 2 The Meta Quest 2, which dominated Steam last year, is a VR headset that gives a full 360 field of view, allows you to experience 3D positional audio, and has over 500 compatible titles between gaming, fitness, and other experiences. If you're a Twitch viewer, you may recognize it from streamers playing Meta Quest 2 games like Beat Saber or the somewhat ironically humorous Among Us VR. It refreshes at 120Hz and gives each eye a view of 1832 x 1920p.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
