Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Your burning questions about GPUs, answered By Jacob Roach Close PC components are complex. It’s easy to look at a list of the best graphics cards and know which one you should buy, but there are still dozens of lingering questions when it comes to GPUs. We rounded up the most popular GPU questions in Google so you can understand what a graphics card is and how it works.
What is a graphics card (GPU) in a computer? Is a GPU a graphics card? How do I check which graphics card I have? How do you reset a graphics card? How to update a graphics card Can you upgrade a graphics card in a laptop? Is a GPU only for gaming? Is a graphics card the same as RAM? How do I get my graphics card to work? Does having two GPUs increase performance? Is scalping GPUs illegal? Is AMD or Nvidia better? Is GTX better than RTX? Or is RTX better than GTX? There are no bad questions here. If you already have your footing with GPUs and want to go a little deeper, make sure to read our guide on how to choose a graphics card.
 Keep our roundup of GPU prices handy, too, where we check in weekly for the best deals.
What is a graphics card (GPU) in a computer? Jacob Roach / Digital Trends A graphics card, or GPU, is a dedicated processor that handles video and graphics. Just like your processor , your graphics card does a bunch of math. But unlike the general-purpose math that goes into all the minute details of making your PC run, GPUs are really good at a specific type of math — the math that goes into images showing up on your screen, from videos to your web browser. You need a GPU for any computer to work, even if you don’t have a dedicated graphics card. There are two types of GPUs: Integrated GPU: This is a much less powerful graphics card that’s included right on the processor. The M1 MacBook Air doesn’t have a separate graphics card, for instance, but it has a GPU right next to the processor.
Dedicated GPU: A dedicated GPU is much more powerful and sits apart from the processor. It doesn’t share resources, so dedicated GPUs can offer a lot more power for gamers and content creators.
Is a GPU a graphics card? A GPU is a graphics card co-equally, but they’re technically different. GPU stands for Graphics Processing Unit, and it’s the actual processor inside a graphics card. A graphics card, on the other hand, is the card itself, which has extras like memory and power delivery components.
Don’t wait for new GPUs. It’s safe to buy a gaming laptop now Nvidia’s new GPUs could be right around the corner AMD’s FSR 3 will finally get a chance to shine in Starfield That’s the technical answer, but you can use GPU and graphics card interchangeably in the vast majority of cases.
How do I check which graphics card I have? Image used with permission by copyright holder There are a few ways to find which graphics card you have, but the easiest is through System Information in Windows. Search for System Information, expand the Components tab, and select Display.
Your graphics card will be at the top by the Name section.
It’s even easier on Mac. Click the Apple menu and select About This Mac.
You’ll find your graphics card under Graphics.
How do you reset a graphics card? If you’re experiencing weird graphical glitches like a flashing screen or discolored windows, you should reset your graphics card. It’s super easy to do. Use the key combination Windows Key + Control + Shift + B, and your graphics card will reset. Your screen will go blank for just a moment, but don’t panic — that’s normal.
How to update a graphics card It’s important to keep your graphics card up to date with the latest graphics card drivers. We have a dedicated guide on how to install and update GPU drivers , so make sure to give it a read for all the details. For AMD, Nvidia, and Intel, however, the process is straightforward.
Nvidia has GeForce Experience, AMD has Radeon Software, and Intel has the Graphics Command Center, and you can update your driver in each depending on which GPU you have (see above to learn how to check). If you have a new graphics card, go to AMD , Nvidia , or Intel’s website and download the latest driver.
Can you upgrade a graphics card in a laptop? Image used with permission by copyright holder In the vast majority of cases, you can’t upgrade a graphics card in a laptop. Thankfully, that doesn’t mean you need to throw away one of the best gaming laptops for an upgrade. With an external GPU enclosure , you can have a full-sized desktop graphics card powering your laptop via a cable. All you need to do is make sure your laptop at least supports Thunderbolt 3 and that you have a spare power connector for the graphics card.
Is a GPU only for gaming? Although GPUs are primarily used for gaming, that’s not their only purpose. Graphics cards can accelerate any video-intensive task, including video editing, 3D rendering and animation, and CAD drawings. GPUs are also used to mine cryptocurrencies in some cases, as they’re much faster at performing simple, repeatable operations, unlike a general processor.
Is a graphics card the same as RAM? Image used with permission by copyright holder No, graphics cards and RAM are different. But it’s a natural point of a confusion. Graphics card and system RAM are different, but your graphics card has some RAM on the card itself. This RAM (referred to as VRAM or Video RAM) is installed on your graphics card and used to store information separately from your system RAM.
If you want to upgrade your RAM , don’t expect it to do much for your GPU. Unlike system RAM, you can’t add or swap out the RAM on a graphics card without some serious hardware engineering skills.
How do I get my graphics card to work? If you have new graphics card, make sure it’s installed correctly by checking out our guide on how to install a graphics card.
 From there, you’ll need to install a graphics card driver. You can find these on Nvidia, AMD, or Intel’s website (depending on which GPU you have). That’s all you should need to get your graphics card to work.
If you’re still running into issues, make sure to read our guide on how to tell if your GPU is dying.
 It’s possible that your graphics card has reached its end if you’re running into problems, and you may need to replace it.
Does having two GPUs increase performance? Bill Roberson/Digital Trends Two GPUs increases performance, but it’s not an option for most people anymore. Nvidia used to offer SLI to hook up multiple graphics cards, while AMD offered CrossFire. The latest generations don’t support these technologies, so although two GPUs can theoretically increase performance, it’s not an option like it once was.
A big reason why is that multiple graphics cards are prone to errors. In many cases, one would take the lead over the other and cause graphical glitches. In addition, multiple graphics cards can cause issues with VRAM, as the two cards struggle to swap data between them in time.
Is scalping GPUs illegal? Scalping GPUs isn’t illegal, even if it’s frowned upon. However, new legislation could outlaw at least part of scalping. The Stopping Grinch Bots Act is a bill currently sitting the U.S. House of Representatives that would outlaw the use of bots to buy up in-demand products online, including graphics cards. It doesn’t seem like scalping GPUs will become illegal, though, as GPU prices typically return to normal after surging.
Is AMD or Nvidia better? Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Between AMD and Nvidia , it’s impossible to say one is strictly better than the other. Both have their strengths and weaknesses. AMD graphics cards typically offer a better value compared to Nvidia, especially at lower price points. In addition, AMD GPUs come with features like Smart Access Memory that can boost performance with an AMD Ryzen processor.
Nvidia graphics cards don’t offer as good of a value, but they’re much better when it comes to features like ray tracing.
 Nvidia typically offers the most performant flagship graphics cards, too, like the RTX 3090 Ti.
 In most cases, though, you’ll up spending more for an Nvidia graphics card compared to an AMD one, even with similar performance.
Is GTX better than RTX? Or is RTX better than GTX? RTX is better than GTX, and it’s newer. Nvidia has used the GTX branding for its graphics cards for years, but that changed with the introduction of RTX 20-series graphics cards. With rare exceptions like the GTX 1630 , Nvidia graphics cards will use RTX moving forward. That means RTX GPUs offer the latest features and architectures compared to the older GTX offerings.
Editors' Recommendations The best handheld gaming PCs you can buy Don’t waste your money. These are the best GPUs to buy on a budget Nvidia’s next GPU might follow Apple’s lead — and not in a good way Nvidia RTX 4090 prices are skyrocketing as stocks run seriously low 23% of PC gamers probably can’t play Alan Wake 2. Here’s why GPUs PC Gaming Computing We just got another round of leaks surrounding the rumored Nvidia RTX 40 Super lineup. This time, the sources speak about the amount of memory these new GPUs might serve up. Nvidia may be making progress toward rivaling some of AMD's best graphics cards, which typically have a lot more VRAM. But is this upgrade really going to be as significant as some speculate? Not all reputable sources agree.
A third source has just weighed in on the matter of the rumored RTX 4080 Super, RTX 4070 Ti Super, and the RTX 4070 Super. Benchlife cites its own sources at Nvidia's board partners as it claims that the RTX 4080 Super might come with 20GB of memory, whereas the RTX 4070 Super might be boosted to 16GB. Doing so would definitely require chip changes for both cards. The RTX 4080 Super would now share the same AD102 GPU as the flagship RTX 4090, and the RTX 4070 Super would be bumped up to the AD103 chip found in the RTX 4080.
Computing The GPU shortage is over, and gamers around the world can breathe a sigh of relief. For those in the market for one of the best graphics cards, we closely looked at graphics card prices and availability to see where the GPU market is headed and to figure out the best time to buy.
If you're looking for a cheap GPU deal, now is the time to buy. Cards from both AMD and Nvidia usually hover around the recommended list price, but some models are actually priced well below that.
Computing AMD hasn't done much with its laptop GPUs this generation, but that's changing. The company revealed the new Radeon RX 7900M, which is a mobile GPU that's squarely targeting the performance of Nvidia's RTX 4080.
Although AMD announced laptop GPUs at the beginning of the year, we haven't seen them in very many laptops. It appears that's changing. The RX 7900M is arriving first in the Alienware m18 laptop alongside AMD's Ryzen 9 7945HX processor. AMD hasn't said if we'll see more laptops with the GPU yet, but it looks like we should only expect it high-end, desktop replacement-class machines.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
