Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Guides How to install a graphics card By Jon Martindale and Jacob Roach Close Upgrading your graphics card is one of the easiest things you can do in a PC. Just like installing RAM , upgrading your GPU is mostly a matter of taking your old card out and inserting your new one into the slot. It’s easy, but we know that won’t dispel fears for first-time builders slotting in what is likely the most expensive component in their build. In this guide, we’ll walk you through how to install a graphics card step by step.
Before starting Step 1: Remove the old graphics card Step 2: Remove PCIExpress backplate(s) Step 3: Plug in the new card Step 4: Attach power cables Step 5: Test it out Step 6: Install new drivers Before starting If you need to remove an old graphics card before installing your new one, you should uninstall your old graphics card drivers first. If you’re running Windows 10, press Windows Key + I to go to the Settings menu, then select Apps.
 Use the search feature to find AMD or Nvidia display drivers. Select them, then select Uninstall.
 Wait for it to complete, then shut down your PC.
It’s also a good idea to take some safety precautions when removing or installing any components. At the very least, that means unplugging the power cable, but we’d also recommend an antistatic wristband, standing on a rubber mat, or at least periodically touching the metal frame of your case to make sure you aren’t holding any static charge. Outside of that, grab a screwdriver and a bowl or magnetic parts tray to keep rogue screws safe.
Call of Duty Modern Warfare 3: best settings, benchmarks, and more Intel surprise launched a new graphics card, but it doesn’t make any sense Newegg wants your old GPU — here’s how much you could get Step 1: Remove the old graphics card Image used with permission by copyright holder If you have an old graphics card in your PC, you need to remove it before you can install the new one. If you’re starting from scratch, skip forward to the next step.
You should first remove the power cable(s) if it has them. They’ll be located near the end of the card and will typically have a push-pin you’ll need to apply pressure on to release.
Next, you’ll need to remove the screws holding it to the PCI Express backplate. Use your fingers (if thumbscrews) or a screwdriver to remove those, and put them to the side as we’ll need them when installing the new GPU.
The final step is to release the clip mechanism that most motherboards use to hold a card in place. It will be located underneath the card at the end of the PCIe slot. If you can, take a good look at it as some require pressing, while others must be pulled to the side. If you can’t see it due to your card getting in the way, have a good feel and determine how it can be loosened by touch. If in doubt, look up your motherboard make online to get a good idea of what it looks like.
Once the clip is relaxed, carefully lift the card out of the PCIe slot. Sometimes a card can get stuck on the PCIe backplate due to the way the case is designed, so don’t worry about giving the card a little jiggle to release it.
When the card is removed, be sure to place it on a surface that isn’t electrically conductive. Ideally, place it inside an antistatic bag.
Step 2: Remove PCIExpress backplate(s) In this particular case, the screws are on the exterior, but most will have them on the interior.
Image used with permission by copyright holder You can’t install a new graphics card without first making space for it in the PCIe backing plate. If you removed your old graphics card first, there’s a good chance that there’s plenty of space back there already, but if you didn’t — or if your new GPU is larger than the last — you may also need to remove an extra backplate or two.
Take a look at your next graphics card and even hold it over the PCIe slot you want to install it into (you want the PCIe 16x slot). It’s typically the topmost slot on the board (if you’re unsure, look at your motherboard manual or an online resource). Figure out how many PCIe slots you’ll need and use either your fingers or a screwdriver to remove the requisite number of PCIe backplates.
Put them somewhere safe, as you never know if you might need them again in the future. Although most case manufacturers have removeable PCIe plates, some require that you pop out the backing. If you have such a case, gently wiggle the back plate back and forth to break off the piece. You won’t be able to put these back on, so make sure you’re pulling the right ones.
Step 3: Plug in the new card Image used with permission by copyright holder With plenty of space for your new graphics card, it’s time to actually install it. The process is relatively simple but can be a little fiddly depending on the size of your PC case and whether your other components obstruct you at all. Regardless, you’ll be slotting your graphics card into the PCIe slot. You may need to come in at a slight angle to make sure that the I/O plate on the back of the card slots into the PCIe backplate correctly. Make sure the PCIe clip is open before installing the card.
The most important step to remember here is that it won’t take much force to install. Be firm but gentle. We recommend using the palm of your hand, directly above where the card is slotting into the PCIe slot. With your palm on the edge of the card, gently wrap your fingers around the cooler, focusing the pressure on your palm.
If you find it’s not slotting in, take it out and see if something is obstructing the PCIe slot. You should hear the clip at the end of the PCIe slot click when it’s installed, but that may not be the case for every motherboard.
When you’re satisfied with its installation, make sure to screw in the backplate screws to hold it firmly in place. If need be, you can shift the card slightly in its slot to better angle the screws. Don’t put any pressure on the card here, though. The wiggle room is just enough for a few millimeters on either side of the screw hole.
Step 4: Attach power cables Image used with permission by copyright holder Locate the right cables you need for the job — it may be one or two six-pin or eight-pin PCIe power connectors. Double check that you have the right ones, as using the wrong power cable can damage your components. Most power supplies use a 6+2 connector (pictured above). Use the small tab on the two-pin connector to line it up with the six-pin before connecting it if your graphics card needs eight-pin power. In most cases, you’ll want the clip on the connector facing the side of the graphics card with the cooler.
Nearly all graphics cards use a six-pin or eight-pin connection or combination of the two. Some models from Nvidia’s recent RTX 3000-series use a 12-pin connector, though. For that, you’ll need an adapter that turns two eight-pin connections into a single 12-pin one.
When you’re certain, plug them in to the corresponding slots at the end of your new GPU. You should hear them click into place, but you can confirm they are all the way in by giving them a slight tug. If plugged in properly, they shouldn’t move.
Step 5: Test it out The moment of truth for any PC hardware change — see if it works. Double check you’ve done everything correctly so far, then, before putting your whole PC back together and plugging everything in, plug in the power cable, your keyboard and mouse, and a single monitor video cable. Then turn your PC on and see if you get a picture. If you do, congratulations! You’ve installed a new graphics card. Skip on to the next step.
If you don’t see a picture, don’t fret, there may be a simple explanation.
Your first step should be to double check that you’ve got the power cables in. If you do and the card is definitely receiving power (fans spinning up, lights shining), then repeat the above steps. Remove the card and “reseat” it in the slot to make sure it’s definitely plugged in correctly. Also double check the connection between your monitor and graphics card. Make sure the cable is plugged in correctly at both ends.
We recommend resetting the CMOS/BIOS if that doesn’t work. You’ll also have to make sure that your PSU can handle the new graphics card’s strength.
RealHardTechX is an excellent resource for that.
If you’re still not seeing any results or improvements, you can attempt to place the card into a different PCle slot. However, before you give that a go, we recommend reading the manual for your motherboard to ensure you won’t overload it or cause a short. There are several motherboards with multiple 16x slots, and though you should always use the top area, you can experiment with a different one if you can’t seem to acquire a signal. As previously mentioned, we suggest consulting your motherboard’s manual first and foremost.
Step 6: Install new drivers Prepare to install some new drivers after you get to the desktop. You’ll have to remove all the drivers connected to your old graphics card to free up storage for the easiest, most fluid integration. We would even advise using a service like Display Driver Uninstaller to be extra careful. Once you’ve completed all of these steps, reboot your system.
Install the most current drivers from Nvidia or AMD’s website , depending on the specific brand of graphics card you’re using, and go ahead and run the installer. Once it’s finished running, reboot your computer, and you should be all set.
Editors' Recommendations These are the best graphics cards to use in an external GPU enclosure GPU prices and availability (Q4 2023): How much are GPUs today? Intel’s next GPU just leaked, and it looks like a sub-$200 card worth buying Intel’s new integrated graphics could rival discrete GPUs AMD might still have some next-gen GPUs left in the tank — but I don’t buy it How-To GPUs Computing Starfield is among the most anticipated games of the year, or perhaps even the last few years, and it's only available on PC and Xbox Series X|S. It's no wonder that it's got people turning to PC gaming in droves. Whether you're looking to upgrade or buy a new computer entirely, you'll be pleased to know that now is a good time to shop, as the prices of components are quite low.
It's a pretty demanding title, though, so not just any gaming PC will do -- you'll need a top-notch computer that ticks a few boxes. It's possible to get by with a lower-end PC due to the game's support for FidelityFX Super Resolution 2 (FSR 2), but we're focused on machines that will provide the optimal experience in the game.
The bare minimum Computing In June, we reported on the clobbering GPUs had taken in sales, even with some of the best graphics cards becoming available. Now, things are finally starting to turn around, with the latest market report showing signs of growth over the last few months despite it being a traditionally weak time of year for graphics cards.
The scoop comes from Jon Peddie Research, which has released its latest report on the graphics card market. While year-to-year figures are pretty grim, this past quarter showed a lot of promise. In the second quarter of 2023, GPU shipments increased by 11.6%. Despite this recovery, the market still saw a 27% decrease year-to-year. This includes all platforms and all types of GPUs. For desktop GPUs, the yearly losses are even worse, with a 36% decrease from the same time last year, although desktop add-in boards (AIBs) increased by 2.9%.
Computing Whether you have one of the best desktop computers or a 10-year-old PC, things can go wrong sometimes. Freezes, crashes, overheating, or even the dreaded Blue Screen of Death (BSOD) -- there are plenty of issues that sometimes plague PC users, and when it happens to you, you might feel at a loss as to what to do.
Good news -- not every malfunction requires taking the PC to a professional repair service (although some of them definitely do). If you're unhappy with the way your PC performs, start by checking out our comprehensive guide to troubleshooting a PC, because it might turn out to be the only thing you need to get it all fixed. On the other hand, if your computer won't turn on at all, we have a separate guide for you.
PC issues? Start here Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
