Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? What power supply do you need for the RTX 4090 and RTX 4080? By Matthew Connatser Close Although rumor had it that the RTX 4090 would consume an unbelievable amount of power , it’s actually not too bad (read our RTX 4090 review for details). At a rated power of 450 watts, the 4090 is equal to the RTX 3090 Ti in power consumption. You might still need a new power supply, though.
What power supply do you need for the RTX 4090? What power supply do you need for the RTX 4080? Don’t skimp on your PSU this generation The RTX 4090 is only rated for 450W, but board partner models can draw much more (the overclocked MSI RTX 4090 Suprim X peaked at over 500 watts in our testing). We’re here to guide you through the power supplies to look out for if you want an RTX 4090 or RTX 4080.
Before getting into it, keep in mind the 16-pin power connector on RTX 40-series GPUs. Most power supplies don’t come with this connection, so you’ll need to use the adaptor that comes in the box of your graphics card.
Even older RTX 4090s aren’t safe from melting connector Asus’ new RTX 4090 shattered GPU overclocking records, and you’ll be able to buy it soon What is VSync, and why do you need it? What power supply do you need for the RTX 4090? Seasonic Nvidia recommends an 850-watt PSU for its Founder’s Edition (FE) 4090, and many other third-party models recommend the same amount of power for GPUs that have the same clock speed as the FE model. Seasonic’s GX-850 is a pretty good option here because it’s fully modular, has an 80 Plus Gold efficiency rating, and comes with lots of accessories like velcro ties, zip ties, and a PSU tester.
At the time of writing, it retails for about $160, which is a bit pricy. But Seasonic has a great reputation for quality power supplies, and you don’t want to pair a 4090 with something that might break.
Newegg Amazon EVGA Some RTX 4090 models require more power if they have higher clock speeds than the Founder’s Edition. EVGA’s 1000-watt SuperNOVA 1000 P5 PSU is very similar to Seasonic’s GX-850 in respect to accessories but has an extra 150 watts and carries an 80 Plus Platinum efficiency rating. It’s also not that much more expensive than the GX-850; at the time of writing, it’s $170 to $195, depending on where you buy it.
Newegg Amazon Corsair For those of you who want to pair a premium RTX 4090 with a high-end CPU like the Ryzen 9 7950X or a Core i9-13900K , it would be a good idea to go with something like Corsair’s HX1200, which is a 1200W PSU with an 80 Plus Platinum rating. It’s fully modular, has similar accessories to the lower-power Seasonic and EVGA PSUs, and can be found for about $230 $250. There are power supplies that can deliver even higher wattages, but 1,200 watts is enough for even the most powerful PCs today.
Newegg Amazon What power supply do you need for the RTX 4080? Before we dive into power supply recommendations, we should mention that the RTX 4080 16GB and the RTX 4080 12GB, despite the names, are very different GPUs.
 The 12GB card comes not only with less memory but also significantly fewer cores and consequently has a lower amount of power draw. The recommendations below are for the 16GB model, so they’ll work for the 12GB too, they just might be a tad overkill.
Seasonic We’re starting with another Seasonic PSU, this time the 750-watt GX-750, which meets the 750-watt requirement for the RTX 4080 16GB. It’s pretty much the same thing as the GX-850 but has 100 watts less power. There is a cheaper, semi-modular version of this PSU, but if you’re buying a 4080, you probably don’t care about saving a few bucks on the cable management experience.
Newegg Amazon Corsair If you need a higher wattage power supply for a third-party 4080, you could just refer to our recommended PSUs for the 4090 since there’s nothing special about needing more power, but we might as well offer some alternative choices. The Corsair RM850x is an 850-watt PSU from Corsair, and it has an 80 Plus Gold Rating. It’s also fully modular.
Newegg Amazon EVGA If your PC is going to be using a high-power 4080 16GB and a high-end CPU, you’ll want a 1,000-watt PSU. EVGA’s SuperNOVA 1000 GT delivers 1,000 watts just like the SuperNOVA 1000 P5 we recommended for the 4090, but it has a Gold rating rather than a Platinum. Dropping down a step in efficiency shouldn’t be a huge deal, though; efficiency is higher at lower amounts of power consumption, and a 4080 consumes much less power than a 4090.
Newegg Amazon Don’t skimp on your PSU this generation Jacob Roach / Digital Trends The power requirements we’re seeing for the 40-series aren’t exactly new, but they’re definitely higher than normal; the RTX 3090 was 350 watts, and now the 4090 is 450 watts, the same as the 3090 Ti. You’ll definitely want a good PSU with lots of power if you want Nvidia’s new flagship.
As for the 4080, both the 12GB and 16GB models don’t have crazy amounts of power consumption at 285 and 320 watts, respectively. These cards aren’t available yet, however. Although Nvidia has shared their power draw, it’s possible that third-party cards will demand a larger power supply.
Editors' Recommendations Nvidia RTX 4090 prices are skyrocketing as stocks run seriously low There’s only one use for an RTX 4080 Ti, and it’s not what you think What is a thermal printer, how they work, and do you need one? I tested AMD’s RX 7800 XT against Nvidia’s RTX 4070, and there’s a clear winner The situation with melting RTX 4090 connectors just got more complicated GPUs Computing In case you were hoping to see even more of Nvidia's top graphics cards on the shelves, MSI has got your back. The company just unveiled around 20 new GPU models, and it's not just more of the same -- these new cards belong to MSI's Gaming Slim series, meaning they'll take up significantly less room in your PC case. And yes, this also applies to the behemoth RTX 4090.
MSI is readying up Gaming Slim models powered by the RTX 4090, RTX 4080, RTX 4070 Ti, and RTX 4070 GPUs. There are already RTX 4060 Ti 16GB cards in the Slim lineup, and the RTX 4060 hardly needs such a refresh. All cards will be available in either black or white, adding up to an impressive number of new products.
Computing Given its sky-high price, it’s safe to say most people do not own an Nvidia RTX 4090 GPU, despite it being one of the best graphics cards you can buy. At $1,499 a pop, it costs more than most PCs, yet one company has just launched a monstrous computer kitted out with no less than seven RTX 4090s. The asking price? A mere 28,999 euros, or roughly $31,600.
Dreamed up by German PC builder Mifcom, the appropriately named Big Boss not only stacks in seven of Nvidia’s most powerful graphics cards but fits each of them with a watercooler too. Those GPUs bring a combined 168GB of video memory to the table for an absolutely absurd amount of power.
Computing Printers are versatile devices that can serve many needs, and the best printers can accommodate any kind of document you want to print. However, if you use a printer for school or work, you'll frequently need to print black text, bar codes, lines, and other graphics on white paper. That's why monochrome printers are a critical device in many offices.
A color printer can also print crisp black text and bar codes, so why would you need a similarly priced monochrome printer? In this guide, we'll answer questions around monochrome printers to help you decide if you need one.
What is a monochrome printer? Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
