Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Best GPU deals for 2023: Get an RTX 3060 for under $300 By Lucas Coll and Briley Kenney Close Graphics cards have really started to come down in price recently, which means now is an excellent time to capitalize on some great deals and upgrade your old card — or build a whole new rig. Because there are so many good GPU deals popping up online, we’ve tried to make your search a little easier: Below, we’ve sniffed out the best GPU deals that are currently available, along with a short buying guide. Bear in mind, that in this market, shopping for a pre-built desktop might be a better choice depending on how old your existing rig is, instead of upgrading components piecemeal — and if that’s the route you want to take, be sure to check out these gaming PC deals.
PELADN AMD Radeon RX 5500XT with 8GB GDDR6 — $118, was $199 PNY Nvidia GeForce GTX 1650 with 4GB GDDR6 — $140, was $190 MSI GeForce GTX 1660 Super Ventus XS OC Edition with 6GB GDDR6 — $240, was $360 Zotac GeForce RTX 3050 Twin Edge OC with 8GB GDDR6 — $250, was $300 Asus GeForce RTX 2060 OC with 6GB GDDR6 — $280, was $350 MSI GeForce RTX 3060 Ventus 2X with 12GB GDDR6 — $285, was $460 MSI GeForce RTX 3060 Ventus 3X with 12GB GDDR6 — $285, was $299 XFX Speedster SWFT309 AMD Radeon RX 6700 XT with 12GB GDDR6 — $330, was $430 EVGA GeForce RTX 2060 KO Ultra Gaming with 6GB GDDR6 — $331, was $350 MSI Mech AMD Radeon RX 6750 XT with 12GB GDDR6 – $360, was $409 Zotac GeForce RTX 3090 Trinity OC with 24GB GDDR6X — $1,500, was $2,400 How to choose a GPU PELADN AMD Radeon RX 5500XT with 8GB GDDR6 — $118, was $199 Image used with permission by copyright holder While this is an excellent deal already, it’s made even better thanks to a $10 promotional gift card you’ll get with your purchase — usable at Peladn’s online store. But even without that card, this GPU is ready to rock. It has 6GB of GDDR6 dedicated VRAM with a 1717MHz core clock speed and 1750MHz memory clock speed. It utilizes PCI Express 4.0, one of the latest standards, and employs a dual-fan cooling system with a few upgrades. For example, the built in cooling module heatsink, custom PCB board, digital HD interface, and aforementioned dual fan cooling system keep the performance high during use delivering stable frame rates. The unique white and orange styling doesn’t hurt either, especially if you’re going for a unique look inside your case.
PNY Nvidia GeForce GTX 1650 with 4GB GDDR6 — $140, was $190 Image used with permission by copyright holder Let’s level with each other here. This GPU is not going to be a powerhouse and that’s not the point anyway. It is, however, affordable, accessible, and capable with 4GB of dedicated GDDR6 VRAM that’s up to two times faster than the comparable GeForce GTX 950. It supports PCI Express 3.0, Turing shaders, and has 896 CUDA processing cores with up to 192GB per second memory bandwidth, which is impressive for a card of this caliber. It will run most newer games on medium settings, except for some of the more graphic intensive titles, and nearly all older games you could possibly throw at it. If you’re looking for a quick upgrade to wait until you can grab a better card, this is a great option for it.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
MSI GeForce GTX 1660 Super Ventus XS OC Edition with 6GB GDDR6 — $240, was $360 Image used with permission by copyright holder This little GPU still manages to cram dual fans into the system for improved cooling. And you’re going to need it with its out of the box overclocking support. It has 6GB of dedicated GDDR6 VRAM with a memory speed of 14 Gbps and a boost clock of 1815 MHz. The max supported digital resolution is 7680 by 4320 but it’s a good contender for 1080p and full-HD gaming. It has three DisplayPort (v1.4) and a single HDMI 2.0B output. MSI Afterburner is the overclocking software you’ll use to adjust and fine-tune settings, with automated options available for those who don’t want to dig in manually.
Zotac GeForce RTX 3050 Twin Edge OC with 8GB GDDR6 — $250, was $300 Image used with permission by copyright holder This 8K-ready card utilizes 2nd gen Ray Tracing cores, with 8GB of 128-bit GDDR6 dedicated VRAM running at 14 Gbps in a PCIe 4.0 slot. What does that mean? Excellent performance, 4K resolution gaming, high framerates, and stunning, hyper-realistic Nvidia tech — ray tracing looks fantastic.
What is ray tracing ? Reference our guide. You can also see a list of all ray tracing games on PC.
 More about this card, it supports up to four monitors , with three DisplayPort 1.4a ports, and an HDMI 2.1 output. Boost clock speeds are 1,807 MHz for those wanting to know.
Asus GeForce RTX 2060 OC with 6GB GDDR6 — $280, was $350 Image used with permission by copyright holder If you want to see how this card’s specs and performance line up against the previous generation models, check out the Nvidia GTX 1660 Ti vs. RTX 2060 comparison. Otherwise, this little guy packs a lot of punch with 6GB of GDDR6 dedicated VRAM, dual cooling fans, and a VR-ready design. GPU clock speeds are rated at 1,785 MHz, and it supports up to four monitors with DisplayPort 1.4, HDMI 2.0, and DVI ports available to use. Asus GPU Tweak II software makes it easy to monitor and streamline performance through personalized settings. This is a great-value card for 4K streaming and HD gaming at stable framerates.
MSI GeForce RTX 3060 Ventus 2X with 12GB GDDR6 — $285, was $460 MSI Gaming Where 8GB used to be the sweet spot for GPU VRAM, that has now been pushed up to 12GB or more. If you’re looking to run most modern games on medium to high settings at 1440p, this is a great choice. The twin fans provide ample cooling and you’ll also get a 1710 MHz GPU clock speed with 1807 MHz memory clock speed. It features three DisplayPort (v1.4a) and an HDMI 2.1 output. Maximum support display resolution is 7680 by 4320 which is quite large. If you’re wondering, it does support Ray Tracing.
MSI GeForce RTX 3060 Ventus 3X with 12GB GDDR6 — $285, was $299 Image used with permission by copyright holder For just a little more, you can grab this 12GB GDDR6 card, at 192-bit, with DLSS AI acceleration and ray tracing support for hyper-realistic, fluid motion, and immersive visuals. The triple fan cooling system keeps it running at optimal temperatures even under a heavy load. Meanwhile, you get three DisplayPort 1.4a ports plus an HDMI 2.1.
 The clock speed is 1,710 MHz.
XFX Speedster SWFT309 AMD Radeon RX 6700 XT with 12GB GDDR6 — $330, was $430 Image used with permission by copyright holder With the current prices, AMD’s cards have become a lot more competitive. This RX 6700 XT from XFX with 12GB of dedicated GDDR6 VRAM is no exception. Besides Sapphire, XFX is one of the better AMD-focused brands. It’s VR-ready, supports PCI Express 4.0, and AMD RDNA 2 architecture for powerhouse graphics performance. Additionally, you get HDMI and DisplayPort outputs, Direct X 12, Vulkan, Open GL, and Open CL support out of the box. It’s ideal for 1440p gaming with high frame rates and widescreen formats. Maximum supported digital resolution is 4K at 2160p, and it has a 2.42GHz GPU base clock frequency.
EVGA GeForce RTX 2060 KO Ultra Gaming with 6GB GDDR6 — $331, was $350 Image used with permission by copyright holder This RTX 2060 KO Ultra Gaming from EVGA delivers a sleek design with dual fans, plenty of cooling, and solid performance. The real boost clock is rated at 1,680 MHz with 6GB of GDDR6 dedicated VRAM available. It offers real-time Ray Tracing for hyper-realistic graphics in compatible games and supports up to three monitors — via DVI, HDMI 2.0, and DisplayPort 1.4. The all-metal pre-installed EVGA precision X1 backplate takes the design, and performance, up a notch.
MSI Mech AMD Radeon RX 6750 XT with 12GB GDDR6 – $360, was $409 MSI Discounted to $370, but with a $10 rebate, this GPU is available for one of its lowest prices to date. But you’ll also get a digital voucher for Starfield Premium Edition– which comes with select AMD Radeon graphics cards , including this one. This 192-bit GDDR6 GPU has 12GB of VRAM, a boost clock of 2618MHz and supports PCI Express 4.0. Plus, it’s rocking three DisplayPort (v1.4) and an HDMI 2.1 output for multiple monitors.
 This card will run pretty much everything you throw at it on high settings, or higher depending on requirements. Hurry, this is a great deal that won’t last long.
Zotac GeForce RTX 3090 Trinity OC with 24GB GDDR6X — $1,500, was $2,400 Image used with permission by copyright holder Go big or go home. That’s certainly the idea here with 24GB of GDDR6X dedicated VRAM at 384 bits and with speeds up to 19.5Gbps. That’s really, really fast and powerful. Plus, you get clock speeds of 1,710 MHz, advanced cooling and metal front plate, a lighted backplate, and full ray tracing support. It’s also 8K-ready, supporting four displays, with HDCP 2.3, VR compatibility, three DisplayPort 1.4a ports, and an HDMI 2.1 output. If you grab this thing you’ll be ready to run any game you throw at it, at max settings, with incredible framerates and performance.
How to choose a GPU The cryptocurrency mining boom caused a crisis in GPU availability for several years (video cards being necessary to mine things like Bitcoin) causing prices to skyrocket, and if you remember that, then you know it was a dark time for PC builders for awhile. Thankfully, things have stabilized in recent years; on top of that, there are now plenty of surprisingly cheap GPUs that make 1080p/60 fps PC gaming more accessible than ever — and if you want to get into 1440p Quad HD or 4K Ultra HD gaming, you’ve got more than a few options there, too.
When shopping for GPU deals, the two big names you’re going to see are AMD Radeon and Nvidia GeForce. These are often sold under different brand names (such as XFX, MSI, Asus, and so on), but the GPU hardware itself — that is, the stuff that actually does the heavy lifting when it comes to graphics processing — is pretty much the same. The differences between card manufacturers will come down to details like heat sink efficiency and cooling capabilities. Be sure to read plenty of customer reviews, but generally speaking, you’re in safe waters sticking with a highly rated card from a reputable maker.
As far as choosing between AMD and Nvidia , you can’t really go wrong with either.
Both companies make great graphics cards , and today, you can find cheap GPUs from either one that are capable of running modern games at 1080p resolution and 60 frames per second (the standard for PC gaming). AMD Radeon cards are typically touted as the superior value, but Nvidia cards aren’t typically priced much higher and GPU deals mean you can often find the latest GeForce video cards for the same price you’d pay for an equivalent Radeon GPU. Also, don’t assume that because you have an AMD CPU that you need an AMD GPU. AMD CPUs pair perfectly well with Nvidia video cards.
Of all PC components, graphics cards cover perhaps the widest range of capabilities and price points. The AMD Radeon RX 500-series and 5500 cards deliver excellent 1080p performance and are a great value. In the same bracket are the Nvidia GeForce GTX 16-series cards (1650, 1650 Super, 1660, 1660 Ti, etc.). Expect to pay around $150-$250 for a cheap GPU in this category. On the higher end of the spectrum are the AMD Radeon RX 5000- and 6000-series cards and the Nvidia GeForce RTX 20-series and 30-series cards. These are naturally pricier, but are a better choice for enthusiast PC builds where 1440p or 4K gaming are a priority. We generally advise against the last-generation Nvidia GTX 10-series cards unless your budget is tight and you find a really good GPU deal on one.
One final consideration (but one that’s no less important for a gaming PC setup) is your monitor. A proper gaming monitor will have built-in vertical sync technology — either AMD FreeSync and Nvidia G-Sync — that’s made to work with one of the two GPU brands. Generally speaking, a FreeSync monitor is made for AMD cards while G-Sync monitors work best with Nvidia cards, but this isn’t a hard rule. Nvidia has been offering more cross-compatibility support for its cards lately, and many FreeSync monitors work fine with Nvidia GPUs (although you may have to use a DisplayPort cable instead of HDMI for the best results, so make sure your monitor supports that). Again, be sure to do your research when shopping for monitor deals to ensure your display is fully compatible with your GPU and vice-versa.
Looking for more great stuff? Find tech discounts and much more on our curated deals page.
Editors' Recommendations 75 best Amazon Black Friday deals on laptops, TVs, Apple, and more The best HP laptop Black Friday deals happening right now These are the best graphics cards to use in an external GPU enclosure 11 Best Buy Black Friday laptop deals you can’t afford to miss today Best router Black Friday deals on mesh networks and Wi-Fi 6 routers Deals Gaming Cheapest Prices GPUs Computing Alienware is known for its high-end gaming laptops, which are not only powerful but are also quite pricey. Luckily, there are some great Black Friday deals on its laptops with both AMD and Intel CPUs, so you have a bit of a choice on what sort of setup you want to go with. While you're here, it is worth taking a look at the wider Alienware Black Friday deals and Dell Black Friday deals for even more options. We love Alienware, but consider browsing the similar Razer gaming laptop Black Friday deals.
Alienware Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals (AMD) AMD processors tend to be a little bit more power efficient and cheaper than Intel CPUs, and while that won't make a big difference with a gaming laptop, it's a nice little addition to have. Luckily, unlike other brands, Alienware doesn't shy away from combining AMD CPUs with high-end hardware like an RTX 4090, so if you'd like to go with and AMD CPU, you'll have a lot of choices to pick from.
Computing If you've wanted to upgrade your gaming PC but missed out on the previous sales during Prime Day, then you're absolutely in luck. With Black Friday deals taking place all over November now, we're starting to see many excellent deals on gaming PCs, whether you're going for an AMD-based setup or an Intel-based one. To that end, we've collected some of our favorite deals and sectioned them off into AMD and Intel so you can pick the brand you prefer.
These include some crossover sales with Dell Black Friday deals and Alienware Black Friday deals, since the latter is sold by the former. We've also trawled through Best Buy Black Friday deals for the best gaming deals. If you want something more mobile, check out the best Black Friday gaming laptop deals.
Best Gaming PC Black Friday Deals (AMD) Computing HP has been around for quite a while now, and you're probably familiar with their lineups of desktops and Pavillion laptops, but that doesn't mean that they don't also make great gaming laptops as well. HP currently has two gaming-specific laptop brands, Omen and Victus, and they both have some great specifications. That said, if you can't find anything you like here, it is worth taking a look at these other best HP laptop Black Friday deals, our collection of the best gaming laptop deals in Best Buy’s Black Friday, and our general Black Friday laptop deals.
Best HP Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals (AMD) Much like other retailers, HP's lineup of AMD CPU gaming laptops is not as large. That said, they are generally more budget-friendly and power-efficient, and while the GPUs are on the lower end of the scale, these are great entry-to-mid-range gaming laptops for you to pick up.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
