Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Guides News AMD FSR (FidelityFX Super Resolution): everything you need to know By Jacob Roach Close AMD’s FidelityFX Super Resolution (FSR) is a supersampling feature available in a large swath of games. It has a simple goal: improving gaming performance on the best graphics cards.
 To help you understand how it works and why you should turn it on in your games, we rounded up everything you need to know about AMD FSR, including the newly announced FSR 3.
What is AMD FidelityFX Super Resolution? FidelityFX Super Resolution quality modes What GPUs support FidelityFX Super Resolution? How does FidelityFX Super Resolution work? What about FSR 3? What games support FidelityFX Super Resolution? It works by rendering your game at a lower resolution, but the magic of FSR comes in the upscaling. It attempts to fill in missing details to make your game look like it’s running at native resolution, just with a massive boost in performance. Here’s all you need to know about it.
What is AMD FidelityFX Super Resolution? Image used with permission by copyright holder FSR is AMD’s answer to Nvidia’s Deep Learning Super Sampling (DLSS).
 Like DLSS, FSR is a supersampling feature that makes a game look like it’s rendering at a higher resolution than it really is. So, the engine may render the game at 1080p, and then FSR steps in to fill in the missing pixels to make it look like a 1440p output.
AMD FSR 3: everything you need to know about Fluid Motion Frames AMD previews FSR 3.0, which now includes frame generation Everything you need to upgrade to Ryzen 7000 There are now two versions of FSR, and FSR 2.0 is much better than the original.
 There are several differences between them, which we’ll dig into in the next section. Although there are still some games with the original FSR, more and more titles are shipping with FSR 2.
Compared to DLSS, there’s one major difference between both versions of FSR. DLSS requires an Nvidia RTX GPU, while FSR works with graphics cards from AMD, Nvidia, and even Intel. Official support goes back to GTX 10-series and Radeon RX 400 series, though FSR can still work on older hardware.
In addition, the source code is available for free to developers on AMD’s GPUOpen platform, and it’s available through the Unreal Engine 4 and Unity game engines. Basically, any developer, regardless of their budget or connections, can get FSR working in their games.
FSR is only available in games where the developers have chosen to include it, though. AMD offers its Radeon Super Resolution feature specifically for Radeon GPUs. This is basically FSR 1.0 available through your AMD driver, allowing you to apply upscaling to any game as long as you have a supported GPU.
FidelityFX Super Resolution quality modes Image used with permission by copyright holder FSR comes with different quality modes to adjust how much performance you want versus how good you want your game to look. Each quality mode provides a scaling factor that will upscale the internal resolution to what’s outputted on your display. Here are the quality modes for FSR 1.0: Ultra Quality — 1.3x scaling Quality — 1.5x scaling Balanced — 1.7x scaling Performance — 2x scaling The scaling goes in both dimensions, so you’d multiply the vertical and horizontal resolution to figure out the final output. For example, if you ran the Performance mode on a 4K monitor with a resolution of 3840 x 2160, it would render the game at 1920 x 1080.
FSR 2.0 has slightly different quality modes. Instead of an Ultra Quality mode, it starts with Quality and matches the same scaling factors as FSR 1.0. Game developers have access to an optional Ultra Performance mode with FSR 2.0, however. This mode provides 3x scaling, but AMD says it won’t be available in every FSR 2.0 game.
What GPUs support FidelityFX Super Resolution? Image used with permission by copyright holder FSR stands out over DLSS due to its cross-vendor support. You can use an AMD or Nvidia graphics card, but only the last few generations are officially supported. FSR should still work on older GPUs, but you may encounter issues or decreased performance. Here are the graphics cards that support FSR 1.0: AMD Radeon 7000 series AMD Radeon 6000 series AMD Radeon 6000M series AMD Radeon 5000 series AMD Radeon 5000M series AMD Radeon VII graphics AMD Radeon RX Vega series AMD Radeon 600 series AMD Radeon RX 500 series AMD Radeon RX 480/470/460 graphics AMD Ryzen desktop processors with AMD Radeon graphics AMD Ryzen mobile processors with Radeon graphics Nvidia GeForce RTX 40-series Nvidia GeForce RTX 30-series Nvidia GeForce RTX 20-series Nvidia GeForce 16-series Nvidia GeForce 10-series Intel Arc A-series FSR 2.0 supports the same graphics cards technically. AMD says the requirements for an optimal experience are a little more strict, though. You can still use it with an Nvidia or AMD GPU, but AMD recommends a slightly more powerful graphics cards for higher resolutions. You can see the recommended GPUs in the table below.
AMD How does FidelityFX Super Resolution work? Image used with permission by copyright holder FSR 1.0 and 2.0 work much differently , but they’re built around the same core. Both supersampling features use the Lanczos algorithm for upscaling. It starts by feeding the upscaler a low-resolution image, which is then blown up with extra detail based on the algorithm. FSR performs a sharpening pass afterward to restore a little more detail.
That’s how it works at a high level, but the critical difference between FSR 1.0 and FSR 2.0 comes down to anti-aliasing.
With FSR 1.0, the game would perform anti-aliasing before the upscaling was applied, which lead to much worse image quality when the game had a poor anti-aliasing implementation.
FSR 2.0 changes that. It doesn’t require anti-aliasing, instead performing Temporal Anti-Aliasing (TAA) after the upscaling is done. This is similar to how DLSS works, and it’s why the Temporal Super Resolution (TSR) feature in Ghostwire Tokyo looks as good as it does.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Compared to DLSS, the big change with FSR is that it’s not accelerated by AI. DLSS requires dedicated Tensor cores on RTX graphics cards to run an AI model that assists in upscaling. FSR is part of the game’s render pipeline, allowing it to work with graphics cards from different vendors.
What about FSR 3? AMD FSR 3 is a new addition to the suite that adds Fluid Motion Frames. It’s similar to Nvidia’s DLSS 3 in that it compares two sequential frames to generate a new one between them. Called frame interpolation, AMD says the feature can double and sometimes even triple your frame rate in supported games.
The first games sporting FSR 3 will be Immortals of Aveum and Forspoken, which will receive a post-launch update. AMD says it has several more games in the works, though, including Cyberpunk 2077, Crimson Desert, and Frostpunk 2.
FSR 3 works on any GPU, just like the base version of FSR. In addition, AMD is offering its Fluid Motion Frames tech though its AMD Software, allowing you to apply the feature to nearly any game with an AMD GPU.
What games support FidelityFX Super Resolution? Image used with permission by copyright holder AMD has vastly expanded support for FSR over the last several months. Here are all of the games that support FSR 2: Asterigos Deathloop God of War Saints Row The Callisto Protocol The Riftbreaker Uncharted: Legacy of Thieves Collection Red Dead Redemption 2 Chernobylite Choo-Choo Charles Cyberpunk 2077 Death Stranding Deep Rock Galactic Destroy All Humans! 2 Dying Light 2 Edge of the Abyss Awaken Everspace 2 Evil Reap Farming Simulator 22 Forza Horizon 5 Ghostwire Tokyo Gotham Knights Gungrave GORE Highline Volleyball VR Hitman 3 Hoiwa Hub Judgment Kingshunt Lost Judgment Martha is Dead Marvel’s Spider-Man and Miles Morales Microsoft Flight Simulator Need for Speed Unbound No Man’s Sky Paragon: The Overprime Remnants Scathe Scorn SCP Pandemic SCUM Shibainu – VR Katana Simulator Swordsman Remake The Bridge Curse Road to Salcation The Chant The Eternal Cylinder The Witcher 3 There Won’t Be Light Thymedia Tiny Tina’s Wonderlands Vail VR Valhall: Karbinger Vampire: The Masquerade – Bloodhunt Warhammer 40,000 Darktide Will to Live Online The library of FSR 1.0 is much larger, and AMD as well as modders are patching it into new titles constantly. Here’s the full list of games that support FSR 1.0: Assassin’s creed Valhalla Far Cry 6 Godfall Horizon Zero Dawn Resident Evil Village Sniper Elite 5 Terminator Resistance World War Z Amid Evil Anno 1800 Arcadegeddon Assetto Corsa Competizione Back 4 Blood Baldur’s Gate 3 Black Desert Call of Duty: Vanguard Century: Age of Ashes Dota 2 Edge of Eternity Edge of the Abyss: Awaken Elite Dangerous: Odyssey Enlisted Evil Genius 2 F1 2021 Gamedec Ghostrunner Ghostwire: Tokyo Grounded Hellblade: Senua’s Sacrifice Hot Wheels Unleashed Icarus Keo Kingshunt Lego Builder’s Journey Marvel’s Avengers Marvel’s Guardians of the Galaxy Myst Myth of Empires Necromunda: Hired Gun No Man’s Sky Phantasy Star Online 2 Quake 2 RTX Ready or Not Second Extinction Shadow Warrior 3 The Medium Undying Warhammer Vermintide 2 Workshop simulator World of Warcraft: Shadowlands World of Warships If you want to see FSR in your favorite game, you can request it through the AMD FSR wishlist.
Editors' Recommendations AMD’s new anti-lag tech could land you with a ban in games AMD Radeon RX 7000 series: Everything we know about the RDNA 3 GPU Intel XeSS vs. Nvidia DLSS vs. AMD Super Resolution: supersampling showdown All the games that support AMD FidelityFX Super Resolution AMD RX 7000 graphics cards are launching in 2022 to challenge Nvidia PC Gaming Computing Ryzen 6000 is AMD's latest line of mobile processors, launching in over 200 laptop designs throughout 2022. The new generation moves to a smaller manufacturing process for higher clock speeds, as well as bringing unmatched integrated graphics to laptops.
To get you up to speed, we rounded up Ryzen 6000 specs, pricing, and benchmarks. If you're a desktop user, you'll have to hold tight until AMD's Ryzen 7000 launch, which is coming in fall 2022.
Pricing and availability Computing AMD's FidelityFX Super Resolution (FSR) and Nvidia's Deep Learning Super Sampling (DLSS) are quickly becoming must-have features in the latest PC games. They help the best graphics cards along by rendering the game at a lower resolution to boost performance. But between them, which one reigns supreme? DLSS may be the older of the two, but some clever tech helps it to keep an edge. That said, AMD has been improved FSR with a new version that delivers similar image quality to DLSS, and without requiring an AMD GPU. From performance to image quality to game support, here's how FSR and DLSS stack up.
FSR vs. DLSS: What's the difference? Computing AMD will soon offer a new promotion called Raise The Game, reviving a familiar way to sell GPUs that we haven't seen in quite some time: Bundling a graphics card with a free game.
It's great news for PC builders, but AMD is not doing this out of the goodness of its heart. This is, in all likelihood, a sign of something we've already observed: GPU prices are falling rapidly.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
