Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Wow! This RTX 3080 gaming PC is discounted from $1,899 to $1299 By Briley Kenney Close ASUS If you want a powerful gaming PC that can handle the latest titles with ease, it’s going to set you back — they’re expensive. That’s unfortunate because PC gaming is incredible, with so many titles and genres to choose from, thanks to storefronts like Steam, Epic Games, and beyond. The good news is, with the right gaming PC deals , you can get a brand-new system or upgrade from an old one at incredible prices, much like the deal Walmart is offering right now on an RTX 3080 gaming PC. The ASUS ROG Strix GT15 gaming desktop, with an NVIDIA GeForce RTX 3080, 16GB of DDR4 RAM, and Intel Core i7, is just $1,300 right now, down from $1,899 — for a total savings of $600. This system will run most games on high or above. Don’t sleep on the deal, you’ll regret it.
Why you should buy the ASUS ROG Strix GT15 gaming PC Before even taking a look inside, you should know this system is a stunner. The RGB is attractive and glowy but not too over the top that it makes you regret having a colorful PC. The case has a built-in handle on the top perfect for lugging it around to LAN parties with friends.
But the real star of the show is the hardware tucked inside that will make or break your gaming experience. It features a 12-core Intel Core i7-12700F processor with an NVIDIA GeForce RTX 3080 that has 10GB of GDDR6 dedicated VRAM. Plus 16GB of DDR4 RAM supports high-performance gaming and multi-tasking, and the 1TB M.2 PCIe solid-state drive offers plenty of storage space for your games and files — you should really start using an SSD anyway — and don’t forget you can always expand that storage at any time. It should be able to run some of the most demanding PC games just fine.
ASUS Flow Tech ventilation provides two isolated air chambers to ensure the heat from the CPU and GPU are properly ventilated instead of being trapped inside the chassis and heating up the other components like the power supply or hard drives.
Of course, all of that power comes at a price, which would ordinarily be $1,899 without any deals or discounts. The best part is that Walmart is currently offering the ASUS ROG Strix GT15 gaming PC for just $1,300, which saves you $600. That’s a lot of money you could put towards new games, accessories, or something else entirely. What are you waiting for? Game on.
Editors' Recommendations Razer Black Friday deals: Save on gaming laptops, keyboards and more This MSI gaming laptop with an RTX 3050 is discounted to $479 This Razer 27-inch gaming monitor is more than 50% off today Flash sale knocks $400 off this Lenovo gaming PC with an RTX 3060 This iMac-style Dell all-in-one PC is discounted to $500 right now Deals Computing While some of the best laptops are designed to cater to different types of users and purposes, you're going to need a gaming laptop if you want to play the best PC games. That's because these machines are designed to meet the strict requirements of gamers, which also makes them a bit more expensive. Fortunately, there's no shortage of gaming laptop deals online, and to help you make your choice, we've rounded up some of the top offers right here. Whether you're on a tight budget or you're aiming for a powerful machine, there's something here for everyone.
HP Victus 15 (Intel) -- $550, was $900 The HP Victus 15 is one of the cheapest gaming laptops in the market, but it still provides decent performance with the latest 13th-generation Intel Core i5 processor, Nvidia GeForce RTX 3050 graphics card, and 8GB of RAM. With these specifications, you can play today's most popular games, but you'll have to go with low to medium graphic settings for the more demanding titles. The gaming laptop is also equipped with a 15.6-inch Full HD screen with a 144Hz refresh rate, and a 512GB SSD with Windows 11 Home pre-loaded.
Computing While some gaming laptop deals can get you a dependable device for a cheap price, some gamers want to go all out when buying their next machine. If you're willing to make a significant investment, but you were hoping to take advantage of a discount, you should check out Dell's offer for the Alienware m16. From its original price of $3,750, it's down to $2,950 for savings of $800 -- it's still not cheap, but it's the price you should be willing to pay for a future-proof gaming laptop. You need to hurry with your purchase though, as its price could go back to normal at any moment.
Why you should buy the Alienware m16 gaming laptop If you want a gaming laptop that's not only capable of playing the best PC games at the highest settings, but also prepared to run upcoming PC games for the next few years, you can't go wrong with the Alienware m16. With its 13th-generation Intel Core i9 processor, Nvidia GeForce RTX 4090 graphics card, and 64GB of RAM that's beyond the recommended figure by our guide on how much RAM do you need, the Alienware m16 won't need any upgrading any time soon.
Computing As part of its early Black Friday deals, Best Buy has some fantastic gaming laptop deals with gaming laptops available from just $550. Whether you're looking for a budget priced gaming rig or something seriously high-end, there's sure to be something here for you. To find out more, hit the button below to see the full wealth of gaming laptops on sale. However, if you feel like you want some advice on what to buy, keep reading. We're going to pick out some highlights that might yet tempt you.
What to shop for in the Best Buy early Black Friday gaming laptop sale Coming from one of the best laptop brands, the Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
