Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Don’t waste your money. These are the best GPUs to buy on a budget By Jacob Roach Close It's not secret that the best graphics cards are expensive. If you follow GPU prices , you'll see the cost for a graphics card has continued to climb over the past couple of years. You don't need to empty your wallet for a solid gaming experience, though, and our roundup of the best budget GPUs proves that.
We have six GPUs here that are a perfect option for your budget PC build. For the purposes of this guide, we're defining "budget" as a GPU that's less than $300. We're also limiting the list to GPUs that you can actually buy. That limits our options to current and last-gen cards, but there's still plenty of value to find in the last two generations of GPUs from Nvidia, AMD, and Intel.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends AMD RX 7600 The best budget GPU Solid 1080p gaming performance Aggressive pricing Only a single 8-pin power connector Compact design Memory interface limits higher resolutions Ray tracing performance is lacking The AMD RX 7600 was destined for failure, but a quick pricing adjustment days before releasing has transformed it into the go-to budget graphics card this year. You can find it between $250 and $280, and there isn't another current-gen GPU targeting that price. And compared to last-gen options, the RX 7600 is much faster.
It's most comfortable at 1080p, where you'll soar past 60 frames per second (fps) in demanding games like Cyberpunk 2077 with maxed-out settings. It can crack 100 fps in a lot of titles, too, such as Horizon Zero Dawn and Assassin's Creed Valhalla without lowering any of the graphics settings.
Compared to the competition, the RX 7600 manages to match Intel's Arc A770 overall, and that GPU still costs $300 to $350. It also ends up around 13% faster than last-gen's RX 6600 XT and RTX 3060, both of which sell for around the same price. Most importantly, the RX 7600 beats Nvidia's $300 RTX 4060 outside of ray tracing, which is its most direct competition.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Nvidia RTX 4060 The best budget GPU from Nvidia DLSS 3 Excellent efficiency Price reduction compared to last-gen Strong ray tracing performance Beaten by cards that are only $30 more Limited memory interface Weak at higher resolutions We recommend the RX 7600 over the RTX 4060 for gamers on a budget, but the RTX 4060 is still no slouch. It falls slightly behind in raw power, but the $300 price still unlocks Nvidia's next-gen features, including stellar ray tracing performance and the coveted DLSS 3.5.
Those features are where the RTX 4060 truly shines. In Cyberpunk 2077 with the Ultra RT preset, the card just barely makes it past 30 fps. Turn on DLSS 3 , however, and you'll get well over 90 fps, all with the ray tracing sliders tuned to the max. That's unheard of for a $300 graphics card, and it's all enabled by Nvidia's next-gen feature set.
Raw performance isn't bad, either, though there are better options around the same price if you aren't concerned about ray tracing and DLSS 3. Overall, the card falls just short of last-gen's RTX 3060 Ti, though it manages to outpace the Arc A770. And, if you factor in ray tracing performance, it's actually faster than the AMD RX 7600.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Intel Arc A750 The best value GPU Great 1080p and 1440p gaming performance Competitive ray tracing performance Relatively inexpensive Resizable BAR is necessary XeSS needs some work Intel's Arc GPUs had a rough start, but they're a surprisingly good value a year after launching, assuming you don't mind dealing with a few quirks. The Arc A750 wasn't much of a GPU when it released, but it has quickly become a go-to budget graphics card after Intel cut the price. Now, you can find it between $220 and $240, and that's a price range that AMD and Nvidia don't have a current-gen offering in.
You're getting performance about on-par with an RTX 3060, just for slightly cheaper. It's a 1080p graphics card that can hit 60 fps in the most demanding games with all of the settings cranked up, but you should expect lower performance in titles with ray tracing. This is a card that's just hitting 60 fps at 1080p Ultra, while cards like the RTX 4060 and RX 7600 can comfortably shoot past that mark.
It's a great value, especially if you can pick up a card for around $220. You should keep in mind some of the issues with Intel GPUs, though. The drivers continue to improve with each new release, but there are still games that occasionally pop up that inexplicably won't work on the cards. Intel is usually fast to issue a patch, but it's something to keep in mind.
Luke Larsen / Digital Trends AMD RX 6700 XT The best last-gen budget GPU Very inexpensive right now 12GB of VRAM Powerful enough for 1440p Poor ray tracing performance No DLSS AMD's last-gen RX 6700 XT isn't a budget graphics card. It's sure priced like one, though. The previously midrange card is now available for around $310 to $330. That's above what we set as a "budget" graphics card, but the RX 6700 XT is well worth stretching your budget for.
The RX 6700 XT is priced like a budget graphics card, but it doesn't perform like one. It gets close to the performance of the $400 RTX 4060 Ti , and it sometimes even beats that card. In Assassin's Creed Valhalla and Forza Horizon 5 , the RX 6700 XT is faster, hitting 120 fps and 150 fps at 1080p, respectively.
As is the case with all AMD cards, the main trade-off is ray tracing performance. The RX 6700 XT is often slower than even the Arc A750 when ray tracing is brought into the mix, and it doesn't have access to Nvidia features like DLSS 3.5. However, for PC gamers look for the best bang for their buck, there's no deal like the RX 6700 XT right now.
Digital Trends Nvidia RTX 3060 The best last-gen budget GPU from Nvidia Available for around $270 DLSS Solid ray tracing performance Beaten by some cheaper cards Occasionally runs into VRAM issues The RTX 3060 hasn't aged gracefully. Despite being one of the most popular GPUs for gaming PCs, the card has quickly been beaten by next-gen cards for a lower price. In response, the price of the card has dropped, and you can commonly find it for around $270.
For most gamers, we still recommend the Arc A750, as it offers slightly better performance overall and it's cheaper. However, the RTX 3060 still has its place as a workhorse GPU for a reasonable price. You won't have to worry about driver support, as Nvidia's drivers are consistent, and you have access to features like DLSS - though not Frame Generation through the newer DLSS 3.5.
Even without those extras, you're getting about 60 fps in most games at 1080p Ultra, and that's without the assistance of upscaling through DLSS 2. It's a solid GPU if you can pick one up for $270, and a downright deal if you can find it for $250. When shopping, make sure to grab the 12GB version - Nvidia also has an 8GB version of the RTX 3060 around the same price that's weaker.
Geizhals / ASRock Intel Arc A580 The best GPU under $200 Decent 1080p performance Less than $200 Solid ray tracing performance for the price Occasional driver issues If you're on a strict budget, you don't have a lot of options for GPUs in 2023. The main GPUs are Nvidia's RTX 3050 and AMD's last-gen RX 6500 XT, both of which have major issues. Thankfully, Intel has the Arc A580 at $180. It's not a showstopping GPU, but it's faster than both the RTX 3050 and RX 6500 XT, nearing the performance of AMD's RX 6600.
While the most of the GPUs on this are 1080p Ultra picks, this is more of a 1080p High pick. You'll get above 60 fps in games like Forza Horizon 5, but you'll need to bump down some settings in games like Cyberpunk 2077 and Ratchet and Clank Rift Apart to get smooth performance. That's a reasonable trade-off considering how inexpensive this GPU is, though.
Once again, the only caveat is Intel's driver support. Some titles, such as Starfield, don't play nicely with Arc GPUs at launch, and the A580 is no exception. It's a solid card at a great price, but you may need to deal with some strange performance occasionally.
Editors' Recommendations The best handheld gaming PCs you can buy Don’t buy an iPad, Apple Watch, AirPods or MacBook until next week The best GPUs for 4K to make your games look awesome The best processors for gaming: AMD and Intel face off Don’t fall for this Mac Mini (M1) deal — buy this instead Best Products GPUs Intel PC PC Gaming Computing If you've been looking for cheap Chromebook deals, you'll appreciate what HP has to offer at the moment. Normally priced at $260, you can buy an 11-inch HP Chromebook 11a for $160 saving you $100 off the regular price. Already pretty cheap, it's just dropped to the kind of price that makes it ideal for your child's first laptop or for a Chromebook that you simply need to use once in a while. Interested? Keep reading while we tell you more about it.
Why you should buy the HP Chromebook 11a HP is one of the best laptop brands and that quality transfers to Chromebooks. Well-designed, the HP Chromebook 11a is basic but functional and good-looking. There's a MediaTek processor along with 4GB of memory and 32GB of eMMC storage. It's less powerful than the best Chromebooks but it still does the basics as long as you don't mind storing all your files on the cloud. After all, that's the point of Chromebooks so it's a reasonable compromise to make on a cheap system.
Computing Now that GPU prices have returned to normal, you can save big on the best graphics cards on Cyber Monday. There are some great deals this year, but equally as many bad ones. In some cases, cards that are on sale are even more expensive than cards that aren't on sale -- yikes.
The GPU waters are murky, so I rounded up three graphics card deals you should avoid at all costs on Cyber Monday. Don't worry, I won't leave you out in the cold. I have some alternatives at each price that will give you better performance for the same price or the same performance for even less.
MSI RTX 3050 Aero ITX Deals AMD's Ryzen CPUs are among the best processors you can buy, and the most recent two generations are on sale for Black Friday -- and some models are down to their lowest price ever. If you've been waiting to upgrade, now is the time to strike.
The deals aren't made equally, though. AMD's most recent Ryzen 7000 CPUs are on sale for the first time ever, but only by 22% at most. In addition, the flagship Ryzen 9 7950X isn't on sale.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
