Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Best gaming PC deals: Powerful gaming rigs from just $750 By Andrew Morrisey Close Gamers who want to be able to play the best PC games should invest in a gaming PC. These machines range from low-priced but capable computers to high-end devices that can handle anything you throw at them, so what you’re going to get depends on your budget. There’s no shortage of gaming PC deals online, so to help you choose, and to prevent you from getting overwhelmed, we’ve rounded up our top picks right here. You need to hurry with your purchase though, because these bargains may disappear at any moment.
Lenovo LOQ Tower — $750, was $1,030 HP Victus 15L — $950, was $1,400 Lenovo Legion Tower 5 (Gen 8) — $1,100, was $1,500 Alienware Aurora R15 (RTX 4060) — $1,300, was $1,600 HP Omen 45L — $1,650, was $2,150 Alienware Aurora R16 — $1,700, was $1,950 Alienware Aurora R15 (RTX 4090) — $3,400, was $3,900 Lenovo LOQ Tower — $750, was $1,030 Lenovo The Lenovo LOQ Tower is a relatively affordable gaming PC that doesn’t sacrifice performance, as it’s still a very capable machine with its 13th-generation Intel Core i5 processor, Nvidia GeForce RTX 3050 graphics card, and 8GB of RAM. The gaming desktop also ships with Windows 11 Home pre-installed in a 512GB SSD, which offers enough space for multiple AAA titles with all the necessary updates and DLCs.
HP Victus 15L — $950, was $1,400 HP The HP Victus 15L is another entry-level gaming desktop, but this one is equipped with the 12th-generation Intel Core i7 processor, the Nvidia GeForce RTX 3060 graphics card, and 16GB of RAM that’s the best place to start for a gaming PC, according to our guide on how much RAM do you need.
 The machine also comes with Windows 11 Home pre-loaded, and you’ve got even more storage space with its 1TB HDD and 512GB SSD.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
Lenovo Legion Tower 5 (Gen 8) — $1,100, was $1,500 Digital Trends The eighth-generation Lenovo Legion Tower 5 goes with the AMD Ryzen 7 7700X processor, which is a change from the usual Intel processors as the AMD versus Intel rivalry continues, as well as the Nvidia GeForce RTX 3060 graphics card and 16GB of RAM. Storage is also expansive with a 1TB SSD, and it also comes with Windows 11 Home out of the box.
Alienware Aurora R15 (RTX 4060) — $1,300, was $1,600 Jacob Roach / Digital Trends The Alienware Aurora R15 looks futuristic, but it’s not all about style. It packs powerful performance with the 13th-generation Intel Core i7 processor, the Nvidia GeForce RTX 4060 graphics card, and 16GB of RAM. There’s a 512GB SSD for your games and other files, and with Windows 11 Home pre-loaded, you won’t have to tinker with installing an operating system.
HP Omen 45L — $1,650, was $2,150 Jacob Roach / Digital Trends / Digital Trends The HP Omen 45L is an excellent choice for beginners, as this pre-built gaming PC provides easy access to its internals when you eventually need to make upgrades. That may not happen for a while though, as it’s got the 13th-generation Intel Core i7 processor, Nvidia GeForce RTX 3060 Ti graphics card, and 16GB of RAM. There’s lots of space for your video games in its 1TB SSD, and you can start installing them as soon as you hook up the gaming PC to your monitor, power supply, and necessary peripherals because it has Windows 11 Home out of the box.
Alienware Aurora R16 — $1,700, was $1,950 Alienware The Alienware Aurora R16 is highlighted in our list of the best gaming PCs as the best Alienware gaming PC, which means a lot because the brand is one of the most trusted names among gamers. It will be able to run all of today’s most popular titles with its 13th-generation Intel Core i7 processor, Nvidia GeForce RTX 4070 Ti graphics card, and 16GB of RAM. Additionally, Windows 11 Home is pre-installed in the gaming desktop’s 1TB SSD.
Alienware Aurora R15 (RTX 4090) — $3,400, was $3,900 Alienware For enough power to run the best upcoming PC games for the next few years, check out this version of the Alienware Aurora R15. Inside are the 13th-generation Intel Core i9 processor, the Nvidia GeForce RTX 4090 graphics card, and 32GB of RAM, so you can play your favorite games at the highest graphic settings. The gaming desktop also comes with Windows 11 Home pre-loaded in its 1TB SSD.
Editors' Recommendations Walmart Black Friday deals: The best offers you can shop now Best Black Friday gaming laptop deals: Cheapest prices today Best Alienware gaming laptop Black Friday deals — save $800 The best gaming PC Black Friday deals you can shop right now Best Dell Black Friday deals: Save on laptops, monitors, desktop PCs Deals Gaming Cheapest Prices PC PC Gaming Computing Samsung makes some of the best monitors you can buy today. Whether you're looking for the best 4K monitors for graphic design or a regular HD monitor to hook up alongside your laptop, Samsung is the name to trust. It can also be one of the pricier brands around which is why it's great to see so many Black Friday deals which involve some deep discounts on Samsung monitors. We've got all the best Samsung Black Friday deals on monitors lined ups below. Check them out now to see what works well for you and your budget.
Best Samsung monitor Black Friday deals Samsung 34-inch ViewFinity S50GC Ultra-WQHD monitor -- $300, was $380 As a great all-rounder, the Samsung 34-inch ViewFinity S50GC Ultra-WQHD monitor is a good option for working from home before indulging in some light gaming. It has a 21:9 ratio along with its Ultra-WQHD resolution of 3440 x 1440. Alongside that, there's HDR10 support that displays over 1 billion colors so you can enjoy brighter colors as needed along with darker scenery too. It's all more lifelike while offering key features like an ambient light sensor to help it automatically adjust brightness as needed. A 100Hz refresh rate is higher than average so you can benefit from less motion blur when watching videos or simply scrolling quickly. AMD FreeSync further helps while there are useful extras like Picture by Picture and Picture in Picture. Combined, it makes it great for work and then relaxing watching a movie after you've finished up.
Computing HP has been around for quite a while now, and you're probably familiar with their lineups of desktops and Pavillion laptops, but that doesn't mean that they don't also make great gaming laptops as well. HP currently has two gaming-specific laptop brands, Omen and Victus, and they both have some great specifications. That said, if you can't find anything you like here, it is worth taking a look at these other best HP laptop Black Friday deals, our collection of the best gaming laptop deals in Best Buy’s Black Friday, and our general Black Friday laptop deals.
Best HP Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals (AMD) Much like other retailers, HP's lineup of AMD CPU gaming laptops is not as large. That said, they are generally more budget-friendly and power-efficient, and while the GPUs are on the lower end of the scale, these are great entry-to-mid-range gaming laptops for you to pick up.
Computing Best Buy is having one of the biggest early Black Friday sales events, so if you want to pick up a new gaming laptop, it's a great option, especially since it has such a wide selection from both AMD and Intel. It's also worth checking out the My Best Buy Plus or Total membership; one or two of the deals below have extra discounts if you have it. For the most part though, we've done our best to shy away from any deals that require My Best Buy or anything of that sort.
Be sure to check out our lists of the best Black Friday laptop deals and Black Friday gaming laptop deals for a more generalized list of discounts.
Best Buy Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals (AMD) Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
