Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Split Screen in Windows 11 Windows 11 Requirements Get Windows 11 for Free Screenshot on Windows 11 Uninstall Windows 11 Android Apps on Windows 11 Home Computing Guides How to install Windows on the Steam Deck By Jacob Roach Close Windows 11 and Windows 10 work on the Steam Deck with official Vale drivers, too. It's not as simple as hitting a download button, though. In this guide, we're going to show you how to install Windows on the Steam Deck, both to the internal solid-state drive (SSD) and from a microSD card.
Boot from a microSD card or USB drive How to install Windows on the Steam Deck's SSD How to recover SteamOS on the Steam Deck Troubleshooting Windows on Steam Deck Difficulty Duration What You Need UHS-1 microSD card with at least 32GB of space USB thumb drive with at least 32GB of space A USB-C hub with a spare USB port A spare Windows PC Keyboard and mouse (optional) Windows 11 license Windows isn't perfect on the Steam Deck, but installing the OS (or booting from it with a microSD card) can help turn the Steam Deck into a laptop replacement.
 We're going to show you how to do a full installation to the SSD, as well as how to boot to Windows from a microSD card. The latter will keep the original SteamOS install intact.
Before diving in, keep in mind that Windows 11 isn't technically supported on the Steam Deck.
Windows 11 requires TPM , and the Steam Deck doesn't have that enabled. You can still install Windows 11 with the instructions below, but you may not receive Windows updates.
Don't fancy going through all these steps? Why not to try the Asus ROG Ally instead. It has native Windows 11 support, and it's faster, too.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Boot from a microSD card or USB drive Before actually installing Windows on the Steam Deck, I recommend you boot from a microSD card or USB drive first. This is completely reversible, so you can try out Windows without erasing anything on your Steam Deck. Windows isn't perfect on the Steam Deck, and reinstalling SteamOS is a big task on its own.
I'm using a microSD card, but any UHS-1 microSD card (check the label) or USB 3.0 drive with at least 32GB of storage will work. The Steam Deck supports Windows 10 and Windows 11, and the process is the same regardless of which OS you use. I'm using Windows 10 here.
Step 1: Head to Microsoft's website and download the Windows 10 media creation tool.
 If you want to use Windows 11, download the Windows 11 creation tool (under Create Windows 11 installation media ).
Step 2: Download Rufus , which is what will allow you to create a bootable version of Windows on your microSD card or USB drive.
Whatever you do, don’t buy an Nvidia GPU right now Call of Duty Modern Warfare 3: best settings, benchmarks, and more 4 easy ways to take a screenshot on a Windows PC Step 3: Download the Windows drivers for Steam Deck from Valve. Put them all in a folder together on a spare USB drive for access later.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 4: Open the Windows Media Creation Tool and select Create installation media.
 On the next page, choose ISO file , and choose a place to store it on your PC. Wait until the process is done, and make sure to keep a note about where you stored the ISO.
Step 5: Plug in your microSD card or USB drive and open Rufus.
Note: Continuing here will erase all data on your microSD card/USB drive. In Rufus, select your microSD card or USB drive under Device.
 Then, choose Select next to the Boot selection section. Navigate to your Windows ISO that you created earlier.
Under Image option , select Windows To Go.
 Then, choose MBR under Partition scheme.
 Rename the drive if you want, and select Ready to start the flashing process.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 6: Once it's done, eject the microSD card and insert it in the Steam Deck. Turn off your Steam Deck completely, and then hold down the Volume down button as your power it on. This will enter the boot manager.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Step 7: Select your SD card to boot into Windows. It will boot in portrait mode on the Steam Deck.
Windows doesn't actually install here, so proceed through the setup process as normal by selecting your language, keyboard layout, etc. A keyboard and mouse help a lot here, but you can get through the setup with just the touchscreen.
Step 8: Once you're in Windows, head to Settings > System > Display and find the Display orientation option. Select Landscape to flip the screen to the proper orientation.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Step 9: Finally, plug in the USB drive that you stored the Windows drivers on. Plug it in using your USB-C hub (not directly into the Steam Deck) and install the drivers.
That's it. When you reboot your Steam Deck, it will go back to SteamOS, but you can always boot into Windows provided you go through the boot manager.
Don't mix up this process with dual booting. The Steam Deck doesn't support dual booting at the moment, so you'll need to choose either Windows or SteamOS if you want a permanent solution.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends How to install Windows on the Steam Deck's SSD If you want Windows only on the Steam Deck, you can install it directly to the SSD. You'll need to erase all of the data on the SSD to do so, though, including your games, settings, and SteamOS itself. Valve has promised a native dual-booting option with a future SteamOS 3 release, but this hasn't arrived yet.
It's possible to restore SteamOS on the Steam Deck , but it's a bit of a hassle. If you just want to experiment with Windows, use the method above. If you're willing to dive into the full experience and don't mind deleting your data, continue on.
Step 1: To start, you need to create a Windows installation drive. We outline how to do that in our guide on how to install Windows 11 , but the process is straightforward.
Download the Windows media creation tool and create an installer on your USB drive. You'll need a USB drive with at least 16GB of storage, but the tool will walk you through the steps otherwise.
Step 2: Power down your Steam Deck completely and connect your USB drive with a USB hub. Although you can connect the drive directly, I strongly recommend connecting it with a USB-C hub to avoid any issues. A keyboard and mouse are good for installation, too, and a USB-C hub will allow you to connect those peripherals.
Step 3: Power on the Steam Deck while holding the Volume down button to enter the boot manager. Select your USB drive with the Windows installer to continue.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Step 4: Like before, Windows will boot in portrait mode. Select the Windows version you want and then choose Install now.
 I highly recommend connecting a keyboard and mouse here. You can get through installation with the touchscreen, but the Steam Deck's keyboard and the touchpads won't work.
You'll be asked to activate Windows after. Enter your product key if you have it, or choose I don't have a product key to continue.
Step 5: On the following screen, choose Custom: install Windows only.
 You'll need to delete partitions on the Steam Deck in order to install Windows.
Important: This will delete all of the data on your Steam Deck, including your games, settings, and any saves/media that haven't been uploaded to Steam Cloud. It's possible to restore SteamOS later, but you'll need to reinstall all of your games and reconfigure your settings.
Step 6: Choose a partition you want to delete and select Delete.
I recommend choosing the largest of how ever many partitions you have. The 512GB model, at least, comes with eight partitions.
Step 7: Choose the partition you deleted, which should show up as Unallocated space , and select Next.
Windows will begin installing on the drive.
Step 8: After a bit of time and an automatic reboot, you'll load into the normal Windows setup. Proceed as you would above, selecting your keyboard layout, and language, and skipping the Wi-Fi section.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Step 9: Windows is installed at this point, so all you need is a bit of cleanup. Head to Settings > System > Display and switch Display Orientation to Landscape.
Grab another USB drive with the Windows drivers for Steam Deck, and install them as well. SteamOS is gone now, so you'll need to restore it if you want to go back.
Image used with permission by copyright holder How to recover SteamOS on the Steam Deck If you installed Windows on the Steam Deck's SSD and you want to go back, you can. Valve offers a Steam Deck recovery image that will get SteamOS back in working order — provided you're OK with factory resetting your Steam Deck once again.
Step 1: To start, download the SteamOS recovery image from Valve.
Step 2: Download Rufus on a separate Windows PC and insert a USB drive. Write the SteamOS recovery image to the USB drive and eject it from your PC.
Step 3: Power down the Steam Deck completely and connect the USB drive using a USB-C hub. Hold the Volume down button while powering on the Steam Deck to enter the boot manager. Select your USB drive from there (it should be "EFI USB Device").
Step 4: After some time, you will boot into the recovery environment. There are a few options here that will attempt to preserve your data, but I recommend using the Re-image Steam Deck option.
If you're coming from Windows, you'll need to factory reset the Steam Deck to get it working. Attempting the other options won't keep your games if you've already installed Windows, and they could lead to some nasty file system conflicts.
Troubleshooting Windows on Steam Deck If you are installing internally, make sure that the partition you choose is formatted as NTFS. Otherwise, it may not be compatible with Windows.
Some games will just run better in Steam OS than they will in Windows, especially with workaround methods. If you are running into performance issues with your game, it could be Windows: You may want to use our steps to revert to SteamOS.
Your games may need to be booted through Steam on Windows to use the Steam Deck control pad. There is also the SWICD workaround for games that aren't on Steam, but that's an extra step and customization process you'll have to make time for.
Compatibility with audio drivers may be limited. Using Windows 11 and its latest updates is the best way to ensure you don't run into audio issues.
For frequent Windows use on the Steam Deck, we highly recommend switching to a portable SSD instead of a microSD card The Asus ROG Ally is a viable contender to the Steam Deck's portable PC throne. Not convinced? Check out our head to head of these two system to see how the ROG Ally versus Steam Deck goes down.
Editors' Recommendations I fell in love with this adorable mini gaming PC A typo is ruining this $700 Asus motherboard — but there’s a fix What reviews didn’t say about the Steam Deck OLED Steam Deck OLED vs. Steam Deck: Which should you buy? Windows 11 might finally reverse course on preinstalled applications Gaming How-To Guides Microsoft Microsoft Windows PC Gaming Windows 11 Windows Guides Computing It's been a few months since I originally wrote my Asus ROG Ally Z1 Extreme review, and the device has changed drastically in that time. It's still a compelling device that easily beats the Steam Deck in raw performance, but a slew of strange updates has left the ROG Ally in a strange spot compared to the Steam Deck.
For those who don't have a handheld gaming PC, the ROG Ally still wins over the Steam Deck. However, as you can read in our Steam Deck review, Valve's handheld still continues to be a force in the evolving world of gaming handhelds despite its aging hardware.
It's all a matter of price Computing You finally settled on the best gaming laptop, but how do you take care of it? There's the routine maintenance of installing Windows updates and updating your GPU drivers, but there are some critical mistakes you should avoid to keep your gaming laptop running smoothly.
I've reviewed dozens of gaming laptops and used them for years, and I've learned that some basic preventative steps can keep your gaming laptop performing at its best. Here are the things you should pay attention to.
Let it get dirty Computing Valve just announced the Steam Deck OLED, which is an updated model of the original Steam Deck featuring a new OLED screen. Unlike the previous model, Valve is only selling two versions of the Steam Deck OLED, one with 512GB of storage and another with 1TB of storage for $550 and $650, respectively.
Although the OLED screen is the star of the show, Valve is making some upgrades elsewhere, too. The new design is now based on a 6nm APU, as opposed to the 7nm APU in the previous model, and it supports Wi-Fi 6E. The previous model only supported Wi-Fi 5.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
