Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Split Screen in Windows 11 Windows 11 Requirements Get Windows 11 for Free Screenshot on Windows 11 Uninstall Windows 11 Android Apps on Windows 11 Home Gaming Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Asus ROG Ally (Z1 Extreme) review: Is it still a killer handheld? By Jacob Roach Close $700.00 Solid performance Acceptable battery life Beautiful, 120Hz screen Flexible control scheme Support for basically any PC game Turbo mode drains battery quickly Windows has a lot of quirks Armoury Crate is a utility, not an OS I knew the ROG Ally with the Z1 Extreme would be faster than the Steam Deck, sure. The specs alone could tell me that. But as an early supporter of the Steam Deck , I didn’t expect myself to be so ready to abandon the device entirely.
Finally competitive The heart of the Ally Chart-topping performance The cost of extra performance A laptop, not a handheld Two worlds, one platform A killer handheld (in the making) Big questions about the ROG Ally During the honeymoon phase, the ROG Ally was a fantastic counter to the Steam Deck, and it still holds up well in that comparison.
 A barrage of updates has changed the foundational performance of the device, though, and it doesn’t look nearly as impressive as it did at launch.
Finally competitive Jacob Roach / Digital Trends There’s really only one place to start with the ROG Ally: the price. The Z1 Extreme model, which is available now, runs $700. That’s with 512GB of storage, as well. The Steam Deck, meanwhile, is as cheap as $400, but for 512GB, you’ll need to spend $650. For the same storage, at least, the difference is $50.
There’s a new ROG Ally competitor, and it’s even more portable No joke — Asus is releasing a Steam Deck competitor The comparison to the Steam Deck is favorable, but the aggressive pricing of the ROG Ally looks even more impressive stacked up against other Windows handhelds. The Aya Neo 2, for example, is $1,100. The GPD Win 4 is $900 (though it comes with 1TB of storage). Both of those devices also use the older AMD Ryzen 6800U APU.
Asus ROG Ally APU AMD Ryzen Z1 Extreme (8 Zen 4 cores, 12 RDNA 3 cores, 9W to 30W) Memory 16GB LPDDR5-6400 (2x8GB) Storage 512GB Gen 4×4 NVMe SSD, micro SD slot UHS-II Screen 1920 x 1080, 120Hz, 500 nits, IPS, 7ms, 10-point touch Speakers 2x 1W speakers, Dolby Atmos, and Hi-Res Audio support Connectivity Wi-Fi 6E, Bluetooth 5.2 Ports 1x ROG XG Mobile, 1x USB-C (USB 3.2 and DP 1.4 support), 1x 3.5mm audio, 1x micro SD slot Battery capacity 40Whr Dimensions (LxWxH) 11.04 x 4.38 x 0.84 inches Weight 1.34 pounds (608 grams) Price $700 There is another version of the ROG Ally, one that comes with the base Ryzen Z1 processor. It has the same specs otherwise, including 512GB of storage and a 1080p screen, but it comes in at $600. We’re focused on the ROG Ally with the Z1 Extreme here, so make sure to read our Asus ROG Ally Z1 review if you want the specifics on that version.
The heart of the Ally Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Let’s focus a bit more on the heart of the ROG Ally, though: the Ryzen Z1 Extreme APU. It comes with eight Zen 4 cores and 12 RDNA 3 graphics cores, with theoretical performance of 8.6 TFLOPs. For context, the PS5 has a theoretical performance of 10.3 TFLOPs.
You’re not getting PS5 levels of performance in the ROG Ally, but it’s a good illustration of the performance on tap. The main limiting factor is power. The Ryzen Z1 Extreme can operate in a range of 9 watts to 30W of sustained power (it can go higher for brief periods). That’s when you’re actually using the device, too. At idle, it can consume as little as 2W.
These power ranges are important because they are what determine the performance (and battery life) you’ll get out of the ROG Ally. Asus includes three modes in its Armoury Crate utility: Silent, Performance, and Turbo. These pull sustained power of 9W, 15W, and 25W respectively, and if you plug the device in at Turbo mode, it goes up to 30W.
Chart-topping performance Image used with permission by copyright holder At the native resolution of 1080p with an uncapped frame rate, you’re looking at around 30 frames per second (fps) in highly demanding games like Cyberpunk 2077 in Turbo mode. Even in slightly less demanding games like Horizon Zero Dawn, the ROG Ally can reach above 30 fps in Performance mode. These aren’t the lowest settings, either. I actually opted for the Medium preset in most games to show clearer differences between the power modes.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends You wouldn’t necessarily play games this way. The Silent mode looks atrocious, but it’s important to keep in mind that those results are at the full 1080p. You can run your games at 720p, as well. The ROG Ally includes AMD’s Radeon Super Resolution (RSR) built-in, allowing you to run games at a lower resolution with upscaling to either improve performance or battery life.
And the ROG Ally looks mighty impressive in that context. Even at its default Performance modes, it decimates the Steam Deck at 720p (Valve’s handheld runs at 800p). Above 60 fps in Horizon Zero Dawn, a comfortable 30 fps in Returnal, and close to 45 fps in Cyberpunk 2077? That’s not bad. Based on my testing, the ROG Ally is upwards of 50% faster than the Steam Deck in an apples-to-apples comparison.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends That’s with more juice left in the tank, too. Those benchmarks were run in the Performance mode at caps out at 15W. In Cyberpunk 2077 at 720p in Turbo mode, the ROG Ally averaged 53 fps with a mix of Medium and High settings.
Since its release, the ROG Ally has seen a handful of updates, some of which, reportedly, lowered performance. I retested the device with the latest BIOS (version 322), and although there are some slight differences, the Ally still performs at the level I’d expect at its native resolution.
Image used with permission by copyright holder There were some big losses in Cyberpunk 2077 and Horizon Zero Dawn with the Performance mode. However, the device only moved a few frames. And in other games, performance actually improved. In Dying Light 2, for example, I marked an extra frame in Silent and Turbo modes.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Almost universally, however, I saw lower performance at 720p. Although the ROG Ally still outperforms the Steam Deck, it’s not as big of a winner as it once was. I’m also concerned about so much performance being on the table at the whim of a BIOS update, whereas the Steam Deck has been remarkably stable in its performance throughout its lifecycle.
The cost of extra performance Higher performance comes at the cost of battery life, but the ROG Ally isn’t as terrible as I thought it would be. In the default Performance mode, I got an hour and 53 minutes out of Cyberpunk 2077 with an uncapped frame rate at 1080p. That’s not great, but it’s not any worse than the Steam Deck.
 In Performance mode, expect around two hours out of a demanding game at 1080p.
The mode that sucks down power is Turbo, in which the ROG Ally only lasted 51 minutes in Cyberpunk 2077 at 1080p. This is a stress test for the ROG Ally, though. Bump down the resolution, set an fps cap (Asus supports 15 fps up to 120 fps), adjust the power draw of the APU; you have a lot of options to conserve your battery.
Cyberpunk 2077 (1080p Turbo) 51 minutes Cyberpunk 2077 (1080p Performance) 1 hour and 53 minutes Gunfire Reborn (1080p Silent) 4 hours and 42 minutes In a more realistic setting, I played Gunfire Reborn at 1080p, locked at 60 fps, in Silent mode, and I got over four and a half hours out of the ROG Ally. With enough tweaking, you can easily get five, six, or maybe even more hours out of the ROG Ally in a less demanding game like Dead Cells.
You can go down lower than 9W with the Manual mode in Armoury Crate. It allows you to drop down 7W with your own profile or go up to 30W, even when you’re disconnected from a charger. Overall, Armoury Crate is a surprisingly competent tool for managing the ROG Ally, but it has some clear problems.
In addition, reports of micro SD cards failing in the ROG Ally have started to become increasingly common. I’ve run a micro SD card in the ROG Ally for several months without issue, but Asus confirmed that the micro SD card can fail under certain thermal conditions , and that it’s working on a fix.
A laptop, not a handheld Image used with permission by copyright holder First, it sits on top of Windows. When you boot up the ROG Ally, you’re met with a Windows lock screen, which you need to slide up and tap Sign In.
Armoury Crate will attempt to load up right away, allowing you to navigate the device just with the controls on hand. It doesn’t always work, but Asus includes a dedicated button that will pull up or minimize Armoury Crate.
This is your hub, and it’s meant to emulate something like the gaming mode that SteamOS has. It hooks into every major PC platform — Steam, the Epic Games Store, the Xbox app, Ubisoft Connect, the EA App, and GOG Galaxy — and automatically populates your library with the games you have installed.
That’s only for games you have installed, though. Armoury Crate doesn’t allow you to manage your games in any way. You have to still use the desktop to install and uninstall games. The experience definitely isn’t as seamless as the Steam Deck. You’ll have to commonly minimize the Armoury Crate app to install games and do things like grab Windows updates.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Asus makes an attempt to simplify the process. You can grab some updates from Armoury Crate itself, and apps like Steam are automatically configured to run in Big Picture mode. That doesn’t fully solve the problem, though.
Instead, I’d encourage you to set up a desktop controller configuration. Asus thankfully supports both a game configuration and a desktop configuration, which you can swap through the quick-access menu. All of the controls are re-bindable in Armoury Crate, which you can attach to mouse and keyboard commands, as well as common tasks like opening the Task Manager or closing the current window. Even better, every button can have a secondary function which you can activate with one of the back buttons.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends There’s a lot you can do, but I was still left wanting. There isn’t macro support for buttons, and you can’t use multiple keys at once. For example, Alt + Enter requires you to invoke the on-screen keyboard or bind each of those keystrokes to different buttons. This is something Asus can likely address in a software update, and I hope it does.
Thankfully, the desktop experience works. It’s not ideal, but the ROG Ally is much more responsive to touch inputs than the Steam Deck, and Windows itself is easy enough to get around. I was able to set up a couple of emulators, install external apps, and browse the internet on the ROG Ally free of peripherals. Small changes help a lot here, like the fact that tapping on an address bar automatically opens up the keyboard, and holding an icon invokes a right-click.
You can switch between the two controller modes through the quick access menu, which has its own dedicated button. This menu is fully customizable through Armoury Crate, so you can build your own loadout of settings to adjust refresh rate, limit your fps, pull up the real monitor, bring up the keyboard, and so much more. There’s a lot here already, and this is definitely an area where I could see Asus expanding with software updates in the future.
Two worlds, one platform Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Although there are only two controller modes, you can store many more profiles. Armoury Crate allows you to set up a controller configuration on a per-game basis, including thumbstick dead zones and trigger sensitivity. You can tie other settings to games, too, such as the performance mode you want to use, the color of the rings around the thumbsticks, and the GameVisual setting. Oh yeah — the ROG Ally comes with several different color modes for the screen through GameVisual.
Armoury Crate has a ton of features, but it still doesn’t feel like a gaming-focused operating system. It’s a utility that sits on top of Windows, and gamers looking for a pick-up-and-play experience won’t find it here. Windows, for as much flexibility as it enables, still takes over, and you’ll need to interact with it to use the ROG Ally.
There are several quirks that result from Windows — one annoying example is that you can’t close games through Armoury Crate, you have to quit the game from its menu — but by far the worst one is the rest mode. Unlike a Steam Deck or Nintendo Switch, it’s hard to trust that the ROG Ally will properly rest when you hit the power button.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends It’s a bit like closing the lid on a laptop while playing a game. It should go to sleep, but unless you get in and tweak your power settings, it’s hard to know what sleep state the device is in. They aren’t consistent either. Several times when using the ROG Ally, I would press the power button to sleep it, only to get caught in a loop of the Windows lock screen popping up, draining the battery.
There are other odd bugs I noticed during testing. For instance, running some games in Silent mode would break the audio with nasty pops and clicks. Other times, I would change my power profile only to open the quick access menu and find it changed back. The Steam Deck is buggy, for sure, but the ROG Ally has its own set of quirks.
One area where the ROG Ally has a huge advantage is expandability, though, and that comes down to the XG Mobile external GPU. Asus is offering its current version with a mobile RTX 4090 , but even the last-gen version (with an RTX 3080) is supported. Hook it up through one cable, and you have a super powerful GPU, a slew of video outputs, and a ton of USB ports.
Image used with permission by copyright holder It’s expensive, but the ROG Ally with the XG Mobile could easily be a full desktop replacement.
 It’s certainly a lot more practical than hooking up an external GPU to something like the Steam Deck.
A killer handheld (in the making) But the main question: should you buy the ROG Ally with the Ryzen Z1 Extreme? If you’re going up against the Steam Deck, yes. It’s not free of problems, and it’s not a strict Steam Deck killer, but it provides broader support for games, more power, and acceptable battery life. That’s assuming you don’t already have a Steam Deck, though.
You shouldn’t ditch your Steam Deck for it, especially with the 720p performance now lacking. For as impressive as the ROG Ally was at launch, it has slipped in the key area where it had such a lead: performance.
Is it finally time to jump on the handheld PC train, though? No — at least not for everyone. If the bugs turned you off from the Steam Deck, the ROG Ally isn’t any better. For as many issues as it fixes, it introduces new problems of its own. This isn’t a Nintendo Switch that can run Steam games. Still, it delivers on the promise of playing your library of PC games on the go, despite the usability hurdles it has.
Big questions about the ROG Ally Being a laptop squeezed into a handheld, the ROG Ally has a lot of weird quirks that aren’t always addressed in a typical review. Here are answers to some of the biggest questions we’ve seen you asking.
What comes with the ROG Ally? The ROG Ally includes the device and a 65W charger in the box, along with a cardboard stand for you to set it on. Asus sells a ton of accessories for the device, including a carrying case and a charger that includes an HDMI output, but you’ll need to buy them separately.
What version of Windows does the ROG Ally use? The ROG Ally ships with Windows 11 Home, but you’re free to install any operating system you want. Keep in mind that the device is designed around Windows 11 , though, so you might run into issues if you install a different operating system.
Will the ROG Ally ruin my microSD card? Since launch, we’ve seen several reports of the ROG Ally overheating microSD cards when they’re inserted into the machine. Although we haven’t experienced this problem (even with a microSD card installed for months), Asus has signaled it’s aware of the problem and released a firmware update to limit the heat around the microSD card.
With extensive testing, it’s hard to say if Asus has fully addressed the problem. It’s not clear if this only applies to some units or certain micro SD cards or a variety of other possible factors. What we can say for sure is that there’s a chance your microSD card will be ruined in the ROG Ally. This seems to be a heat issue, so we suspect you run a higher risk if you’re running the device plugged in while in Turbo mode.
Is the ROG Ally upgradeable? You can upgrade the SSD in the ROG Ally, but that’s it. It supports a standard M.2 2230 SSD size, which you can install by removing the back of the device. Keep in mind that you’ll have to get into the guts of the machine to do this, though, so it might be better to use an external SSD if you’re not comfortable.
Can the ROG Ally run emulators? The ROG Ally can run any emulator you could run on a standard Windows PC, and tools like RetroBat and EmuDeck make configuring several emulators at once a breeze. Unfortunately, though, you won’t be able to see your emulated games inside the ROG Ally’s main utility.
How much storage does the ROG Ally have? Asus has two models of the ROG Ally, one with the Z1 Extreme processor and 512GB of storage and another with a Z1 processor and 256GB of storage. However, you can expand storage by replacing the SSD, adding a micro SD card, or using an external hard drive.
How much battery life does the ROG Ally have? The ROG Ally sports a 40-watt-hour battery, and based on our testing, it lasts about two hours in a demanding game in its default Performance mode. That drops to only an hour of battery life in Turbo mode, while the Silent mode (in a less demanding game) can reach upwards of five hours.
Editors' Recommendations The best handheld gaming PCs you can buy A cheaper ROG Ally is coming, but you shouldn’t wait for it Computing Microsoft Microsoft Windows Product Reviews Video Game System Reviews Windows 11 Windows Reviews Gaming We've had a dancing game and musou spinoff, but now the Persona 5 cast has entered the realm of tactics with Persona 5 Tactica. The translation feels obvious when you think about it, but naturally, there have to be some changes to make it fit. For fans of the original JRPG, experimenting with the new combat system will take a little getting used to, especially relearning what skills are best. This game is quite friendly to those who are not as well-versed in the genre and allows you to try out your build and completely rework it if you need to. If you've invested your GP in some skills you're unhappy with, here's how you can respec in Persona 5 Tactica.
How to respec in Persona 5 Tactica Each character has their own skill tree that you can invest your GP into for buffs and skills. The way you invest early on can make the first few hours either much more difficult or a smoother experience. If you're feeling some buyer's remorse, respecing any character is not only easy, but can be done as many times as you like at no cost.
Gaming Nintendo’s Super Mario series is so monumental to the medium of video games that you might even think of the mustachioed plumber when you hear “video games” mentioned at all. From his earliest days when he battled Donkey Kong as “Jumpman.” to his latest adventures on the Nintendo Switch, to his latest movie appearance in The Super Mario Bros. Movie, Mario has consistently been one of the greatest characters in video games. He’s such an iconic character that countless video games have had him as the star, and here we have ranked them.
For our list, we had two main criteria. First, the games have to be platformers -- either 2D or 3D. This eliminates Mario sports games, the Mario Kart series, role-playing games, and all the Mario Parties. Secondly, the games have to have Mario himself as the lead character. This eliminated Super Mario Land 3 and Super Mario World 2: Yoshi’s Island. In the end, we were left with 22 games. None of them are bad, but we did have to name a loser. We also chose to omit The Lost Levels and instead considered Super Mario Bros. 2 as the definitive second game in the series.
Gaming Rocksteady made a name for itself as one of the first teams to make a universally acclaimed superhero game with Batman: Arkham Asylum. It followed that success with two sequels, the even more beloved Batman: Arkham City and the divisive, though still fantastic Batman: Arkham Knight. Fans were left waiting to hear what this studio would tackle next. Most assumed it would be another DC property, since it is owned by Warner Bros. Games, and those suspicions turned out to be right on the money, though with a property not many would have predicted.
Suicide Squad: Kill the Justice League was given a formal announcement as the newest project from Rocksteady at the DC FanDome event in 2020. At the time, outside of the graphic novels, of course, we only had the one flop of a film based on this antihero group, so many fans were hesitant to see Rocksteady tackle this property. Now that we've gotten a few trailers and footage of gameplay, however, it has become clear that Rocksteady hasn't lost its touch. We took on this suicide mission for you and made off with all the details you need to know about Suicide Squad: Kill the Justice League.
Release date Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
