Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Gaming Features Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The Steam Deck and Nintendo Switch had a baby, and it’s Lenovo’s Legion Go By Giovanni Colantonio Close Lenovo The race is on. After Valve released its popular Steam Deck last year, hardware manufacturers have rushed to put out their own portable PCs. We already have a viable rival in the Asus ROG Ally from this year, and there are plenty of offbeat options like the Ayaneo 2S out there, but now Lenovo is joining the scene with the Legion Go.
A capable device Innovative controls At first glance, the Legion Go might just look like your standard portable PC. It’s a hefty Windows handheld packed with some impressive specs. Look closer, though, and you’ll find that Lenovo is bringing some genuine innovation to the table. With detachable controllers, a kickstand, an innovative “mouse mode,” and more, the Legion Go sets itself apart from its competitors in plenty of ways. But is it worth plopping down $700 this October for yet another portable gaming device? That’s shaping up to be a surprisingly complicated answer. In a hands-on session ahead of the device’s reveal, I got to test out the Legion Go’s wealth of unique features. Some of its ideas already feel groundbreaking for a machine like this, creating a device that better bridges the gap between handheld and PC. On the other hand, its enormous size and complicated features might make it a harder sell for casual gamers just looking to take their PC games on the go.
A capable device On paper, there’s no doubt that the Legion Go is ready for battle. Equipped with an AMD Ryzen z1 Extreme processor, it has the same power potential as the Asus ROG Ally.
 The powerhouse system comes with 16 GB of RAM , 512 GB of storage, and a 49.2 Wh battery, all of which justify its competitive price tag. With all that power packed into a fairly massive, vent-filled form factor, I expected to see some impressive results when I actually jumped into a game. That wasn’t exactly the case.
When hopping into Hi-Fi Rush , I was immediately surprised to see it running at an unusually choppy frame rate. I initially chalked that up to unoptimized graphics settings (the internal tools that’ll come with the device weren’t ready to test quite yet), but the real culprit may actually be its most impressive feature: the 1600p display.
Giovanni Colantonio / Digital Trends Yes, you read that right. The Legion Go sports perhaps the most impressive display available on a handheld gaming device in the form of its 144Hz 8.8” QHD+ screen. It’s that 1600p figure that really stands out though — but perhaps not for the reasons Lenovo is expecting. While it’s a great selling point on paper, it’s also a bit impractical. That figure is even too demanding for most low-end gaming laptops , let alone a handheld device with a significantly smaller screen. It’s especially high for the Z1 Extreme, which may explain why Hi-Fi Rush ’s performance underwhelmed. There’s clearly a lot of experimentation to be done to see how well the Legion Go can be optimized to favor performance over a perhaps unnecessarily clear display.
Though that might be overkill, Lenovo’s other ambitions seem like they’ll pay off more. Particularly, the inclusion of two USB-C 4 ports could go a long way. Toss in Bluetooth support, a microSD slot, a built-in camera, two 2-watt speakers, and you’ve got a fairly loaded system on your hands. It’s also a Windows device with a responsive touchscreen, which makes navigating in desktop view a fairly natural experience.
Giovanni Colantonio / Digital Trends Of course, all of this comes with one heavy catch: The Legion Go weighs a whopping 1.8 pounds. While Lenovo says it’s still trying to shave some weight off that staggering number (a mere two months out from launch), don’t expect too much to change there. At that weight, the Legion Go is significantly heavier than a Steam Deck — and I could tell. It’s hard to imagine holding it for a long period of time without feeling some strain. That aspect alone might give it some trouble in a battle against the much more portable and equally powerful ROG Ally.
Innovative controls I get the sense that Lenovo not only knows the weight factor is a pain point, but designed around it too. That’s evident in its innovative approach to controls which takes more inspiration from the Nintendo Switch than the Steam Deck. The Legion Go features fully detachable controllers that easily undock from the screen. It even features a built-in kickstand similar to the Switch OLED’s , which supports the idea that Lenovo is targeting a tabletop use case more than a handheld one.
Giovanni Colantonio / Digital Trends While the controllers feature a standard ABXY layout, they’re the most untraditional controllers we’ve seen on a device like this yet. A trackpad on the right controller gives it an edge over the ROG Ally, while its six assignable grip buttons leave tons of room for control customization. The only problem there once again comes down to comfort. When detached, the controllers feel chunky and overly angular in the hands. It feels like I’m holding two thick triangles, which is a weird feeling after so many years of handling Nintendo’s lightweight Joy-Cons. I imagine it’s something I’d get used to over time, but I do have some questions about how they’ll feel in longer play sessions.
That’s not the Legion Go’s most surprising innovation, though. The device also features a somewhat ingenious setup that turns the right controller into a mouse. The Legion Go comes bundled with a little plastic ring that can be placed down on a table (the final version will be magnetized, but the one I tested was not). By flipping an “FPS” switch on and placing the right controller in the ring, it can essentially be controlled like a flight stick. The right bumper and an extra one down the side of the controller act as a left and right mouse click, while a secret wheel near them gives players the ability to scroll.
Giovanni Colantonio / Digital Trends As far as gimmicks go, it’s the same kind of toy-like charm that made me fall in love with the Nintendo Switch the first time I tried it. I could use the mode to play Powerwash Simulator with pinpoint accuracy, holding the left controller in my other hand to switch nozzles. It seems like an ideal option for people who play genres specifically built for PC, like CRPGs and strategy games. That could help the Legion Go become the preferred option for something like Baldur’s Gate 3 , making it the PC player’s handheld.
Of course, a first-of-its-kind control scheme like this is bound to have some hurdles. When FPS mode was turned on, the games I demoed immediately assumed I was playing with a mouse and keyboard. That meant that any in-game controls shown to me were useless, leaving me to fiddle with buttons until I figured out what did what. I imagine that would create a lot of confusion in PC-focused games that rely on dozens of keyboard commands rather than controller shortcuts.
Even with that caveat, FPS mode offers something no other gaming handheld does — and that’s key for Lenovo. We’re currently in a sort of Wild West era of portable PCs where hardware manufacturers need to work hard to convince players their device is preferable to one they bought months ago. Lenovo’s sales pitch, as far as I can tell, is that the Legion Go acts as a much stronger bridge between a handheld and a laptop, delivering both experiences with a more flexibly designed device.
Giovanni Colantonio / Digital Trends It’s a great idea — one that carries a techie wow factor — but what remains to be seen is how practical it all is. Is the Legion Go’s massive size worth the strain? Does an overly ambitious screen hurt more than it helps? Is the optimal use case here too niche for a general audience? Those are questions I’ll only be able to answer upon spending more time with the final Legion Go. That said, Lenovo is entering the market with a genuinely fresh idea rather than a copycat device whose only pro is a negligible power bump. Even if the Legion Go isn’t the best version of what it could be, the stage is set for it to shake up the market in a way that could put it at the top.
The Legion Go is scheduled to launch this October and retail for $700.
Lenovo says it’s working on a cheaper, less powerful model of it too, though that doesn’t have a release window yet.
Editors' Recommendations Half-Life gets a free update and Steam Deck verification for its birthday Steam Deck OLED fixes the worst part of Valve’s handheld You’ll have to wait a long time for a Steam Deck 2 Steam Deck 2? This leak suggests Valve is working on new hardware After four months with the ROG Ally, I’m going back to my Steam Deck Computing Features Lenovo Computing A person plays a game on Lenovo Legion Go while looking up at a virtual screen with Legion Glasses on. Lenovo Lenovo's new Legion Go handheld gaming computer has a built-in 8.8-inch screen, which is great for a pocketable device. But if you want more, you can supersize that to TV dimensions without sacrificing portability, thanks to the new Legion Glasses.
Computing Yet another player seems to be about to enter the gaming handheld market. Lenovo is reportedly working on its own competitor to the Steam Deck and the Asus ROG Ally. Now, it's pretty safe to assume that this device is more than just a rumor, all thanks to the high-quality renders of the Lenovo Legion Go that just emerged. It definitely looks like Lenovo may have taken inspiration not just from its direct competitors, but also from the Nintendo Switch.
As can be seen in the image above (courtesy of WindowsReport), the Lenovo Legion Go appears to be equipped with detachable controllers, which are very similar to the Joy-Cons used by the Nintendo Switch. It also comes with a stand in the back, implying that -- when combined with these removable "joy-cons" -- it could work well for co-op gaming on the go. At the very least, it seems like you will be able to set it down and play without needing to hold it in your hands the whole time.
Computing After product pages went live early, Valve has officially opened up orders for "certified refurbished" Steam Decks. All three capacities Valve offers are available to purchase, and there are some hefty discounts over list price: 64GB model -- $319 (down from $399) 256GB model -- $419 (down from $549) 512GB model -- $519 (down from $649) Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
