Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Logitech G Cloud Gaming Handheld review: For enthusiasts only By Tomas Franzese Close $350.00 Excellent battery life Comfortable design Best cloud gaming apps supported Plays mobile games No 4G or 5G UI issues Expensive for what it is The Logitech G Cloud Gaming Handheld is the first of a new kind of gaming device: a handheld tailored specifically to cloud gaming. Streaming games from the cloud is something that people can do with a PC, phone, or Samsung TV , so there’s a lot of pressure on this handheld to prove why players should be interested in it … especially when they can buy a cheaper mobile controller like the Razer Kishi V2 for their phone.
The specs on deck Switching up how you play The phone factor After going hands-on with the device, it’s definitely not without its merits. It’s comfortable to hold, prioritizes the cloud gaming apps out of all the app fluff on a typical phone, and has amazing battery life. It’s also an incredible niche product that probably won’t be worth the $300-plus you’ll have to spend on it if you’re not already all-in on cloud gaming.
Tencent and Logitech are making a cloud gaming handheld device Save big on Acer, Logitech, and Razer gaming mice this Prime Day Nvidia GeForce Now gains Ubisoft titles as Microsoft and Warner Bros. pull games The specs on deck While this may seem like a wholly original piece of technology, it’s really just a heavily modified Android tablet built to look and play like a Nintendo Switch.
 The Logitech G Cloud Gaming Handheld features a seven-inch multitouch IPS that displays at a 1920 x 1080 resolution with a 60Hz refresh rate. While it’s not pushing the boundaries of mobile hardware, the screen and resolution are adequate for most cloud gaming, which tends to sacrifice resolution first.
This device will only appeal to the most hardcore cloud gaming fans who don’t want to sit at their console or computer.
The Logitech G Cloud Gaming Handheld has all the buttons you’d expect from a modern controller. Its triggers are a bit small, and its buttons and D-pad feel softer when pressed than I prefer, but the controls still felt very responsive. The textured grips on each side make it more comfortable to hold than a Nintendo Switch Joy-Con. The Logitech G Cloud Gaming Handheld also supports features like haptic feedback and 3D gyroscope, though these never were that noticeable or useful during my time with the device.
Running on a Snapdragon 720G with only 4 GB of RAM, this isn’t the most powerful hardware out there, even in its price range. Still, that doesn’t matter much when it can run the Xbox Series X version of a game like Deathloop smoothly because the handheld itself isn’t running the game natively. As a result, one’s internet connection will make or break the experience.
Although my experience streaming cloud services on the device was smooth, I was also very limited in where I could play it as a Wi-Fi connection or Ethernet connection is required. With no 4G or 5G support, the Logitech G Cloud Gaming Handheld isn’t a device I’d want to take on a trip where Wi-Fi may be questionable, so it fails to compete in another area where devices like the Nintendo Switch thrive.
Image used with permission by copyright holder It’s most useful at your home — somewhere where you probably already have a console, phone, or TV that can do the same things and play the same games, perhaps even natively. Because of that significant limitation, this device will only appeal to the most hardcore cloud gaming fans who don’t want to sit at their console or computer. That’s a shame because its cloud gaming apps are good, and it has a significant advantage over other gaming handhelds in a key area: battery life.
Switching up how you play The Nintendo Switch and Steam Deck have notoriously poor battery life, but that isn’t an issue for the Logitech G Cloud Gaming Handheld.
 I booted up Chivalry II on the Xbox Cloud Gaming app at 100% battery and kept the game running. The charge lasted about 11-and-a-half hours, and the device never got very warm. It’s not the quite 12 hours Logitech promises in marketing, but it’s still wildly impressive for a gaming handheld and the best thing about the Logitech G Cloud Gaming Handheld. Recharging isn’t too shabby either, as you can get it back up to 100% battery life after about 2 hours and 15 minutes of charging.
The Logitech G Cloud Gaming Handheld is a great way to experience mobile games that have controller support, but aren’t on a system like Nintendo Switch.
It has a custom UI created with the help of Tencent Games and runs on a version of the Android 11 OS. While players can sync apps from other Android devices onto the Logitech G Cloud Gaming Handheld, it has four primary apps: Xbox Cloud Gaming, Nvidia GeForce Now, Steam Link, and Google Play.
The Xbox Cloud Gaming app lets Xbox Game Pass Ultimate subscribers play select games via the cloud. The library is already solid with AAA games like Halo Infinite and Deathloop as well as great indies like Unsouled and Echo Generation.
 Meanwhile, Nvidia GeForce Now allows you to stream games you own from high-end PCs. I used this to play through some of 2014’s Thief and had a pleasant experience playing something released when OnLive was still a thing. Nvidia GeForce Now has secretly become one of the best cloud gaming services, as it’s great for gamers who can’t afford high-end PCs.
Image used with permission by copyright holder If you prefer your own PC build and just want to game from a different part of your house, Steam Link lets you stream games running on your PC. If you want to use any other cloud gaming or mobile apps, you’ll have to download them from the Google Play Store. The Logitech G Cloud Gaming Handheld is a great way to experience mobile games that have controller support but aren’t on a system like Nintendo Switch, even if that’s not what Logitech built the device for.
Another area where the Logitech G Cloud Gaming Handheld shines is playing games like Doom Eternal , which had to make some sacrifices with its Nintendo Switch port. Here, you’re playing a version of the game running on an Xbox Series X or a high-end PC while getting the same handheld experience. I even got Google Stadia up and running well on the handheld, so it’s an enjoyable way to experience that platform’s library in the last few months of its existence.
The phone factor While I had a good time playing various games on the Logitech G Cloud Gaming Handheld, I couldn’t help but think about how it was unnecessary every time I played it. I already own a Razer Kishi V2 and an Android phone well-equipped to play cloud games, and the Logitech G Cloud Gaming Handheld never did enough to break out of being a novelty device.
Image used with permission by copyright holder If the user experience were much better than a phone, it might’ve won me over, but the results are mixed. The touchscreen is required for keyboards or number pads, so you can’t even unlock the device without using the touchscreen, even though it otherwise features fully remappable controls. You can pin apps, but can’t make folders. Unless you have an iOS or Android device with a poor screen that can’t use cloud gaming services, this product isn’t offering anything that is uniquely necessary.
With a current price of $300 and an eventual $350 price tag looming over the device, the Wi-Fi-limited Logitech G Cloud Gaming Handheld squarely sits as a decent device that will only appeal to hardcore cloud gaming enthusiasts like myself. At that price tag, most players would be better off buying a Nintendo Switch OLED model, saving a bit more and picking up a Steam Deck, or spending less on a Razer Kishi V2 to dabble in cloud gaming on their phone.
Cloud play has become a very supplementary form of gaming, and as a result, this is also a very supplementary device for cloud gamers. If the device already intrigues you, you might get some mileage out of it. But with services like Xbox Cloud Gaming coming to the Meta Quest , Samsung TVs, and other hardware you probably already own, the Logitech G Cloud Gaming Handheld doesn’t do enough to prove that a cloud gaming device like this is necessary. It’s for those who want a fourth or fifth way to cloud game in their own home.
Editors' Recommendations Microsoft pledges to bring Xbox PC games to Nvidia GeForce Now Google Stadia vs. Nvidia GeForce Now Apple says cloud gaming apps like Google Stadia violate iOS app store rules Project xCloud vs. Nvidia GeForce Now: Here’s how they compare Nvidia GeForce Now cloud gaming is $5 a month with ray tracing and 1,000+ games Cloud Gaming Game Reviews Microsoft Product Reviews Xbox Gaming One of the companies embracing cloud gaming may be making a pivot to support one of the new kids on the block. The Digital Fix reports, through anonymous sources, that Nvidia will add support for Google Stadia controllers to its Shield streaming device and attempt to “position the new Nvidia Shield as your central Stadia supporting entertainment hub.” The Nvidia Shield TV is an Android-powered device that serves as a hub for media streaming and the report suggests that a new version of the Shield will be launching around the time Stadia launches in November. It can access Netflix, Amazon Prime Video, YouTube, and more via downloaded apps and is also gaming ready. Through GeForce Now, which is currently in its free beta stage, a user can stream games like PlayerUnknown’s Battlegrounds, Fortnite, and Rainbow Six Siege to enabled devices, like the Shield TV and Shield TV Gaming Edition. The standard version of Shield TV is $180 and comes with a remote while the Gaming Edition is $200 and includes a controller and remote.
Gaming Microsoft's latest console, the Xbox Series X, is a powerhouse, oftentimes matching or outperforming the PlayStation 5 in multiplatform releases. But how are the exclusives? The Xbox Series X had a thin lineup at launch, but over the years has amassed a more than impressive catalogue of titles.
We will only include Xbox One games if they've been optimized for Series X and S (like Gears 5). Also, we're ignoring PCs entirely. If you factor in PC releases, Microsoft hasn't had a console-exclusive game in years. While many exciting games are still to come, such as Fable and Hellblade 2, there are more than enough to keep you satisfied until then.
Gaming Lego sets bring joy to our and our kids' eyes. They can help build real problem solving skills by following instructions, encourage creativity by dismissing the instructions and making fun modifications, or be the tools to create something entirely on our own from the ground up. There are tons of Black Friday Lego deals, as you might've guessed, but few places due it as well as Walmart does. Between official Black Friday deals and associated clearance items, the retail giant now has over 80 sets on sale as part of its Walmart Black Friday deals. Go shop the sale now via the button below or read on to see our favorite picks.
Our favorite Walmart Black Friday Lego deal Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
