Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Acer Chromebook Vero 514 Review Chromebook vs Laptop Screenshot on a Chromebook Reset a Chromebook Best Chromebooks Chromebook Problems Split Screen on a Chromebook Home Computing Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Best Chromebook deals: Cheap laptops starting at $180 By Lucas Coll and John Alexander Close Chromebooks are often a good option for someone on a tight budget who’s finding even the best and cheapest laptop deals a little pricey. Using ChromeOS , such systems aren’t much use for someone who needs Windows but it does mean better battery life and an experience designed for working on the cloud. To help you save even more on these often budget friendly offerings, we’ve picked out all best Chromebook deals currently available. These include some super cheap deals along with some for those able to spend a bit more.
Acer Chromebook 314 — $180, was $269 Samsung 15.6-inch Chromebook — $219, was $269 HP 14-inch Chromebook — $269, was $299 Lenovo Flex 3i — $319, was $349 Lenovo IdeaPad Duet 5 — $469, was $499 Acer Chromebook 516 GE Cloud Gaming Laptop — $619, was $649 Acer Chromebook 314 — $180, was $269 Acer The Acer Chromebook 314 is a fairly stylish looking Chromebook. It has an Intel Celeron processor, 4GB of memory and 64GB of eMMC storage. That’s fairly basic stuff so the attractive part about the Acer Chromebook 314 is its screen. It has a 14-inch full HD widescreen LED-backlit IPS display. It’s also a touchscreen if you prefer to be more tactile with your work. The Chromebook only weighs just over three pounds so it’s easy to take out and about with you while it has a huge 12.5 hour battery life so it’s ideal for your busiest of days on the move. USB-C ports keep it suitably up to date too.
Samsung 15.6-inch Chromebook — $219, was $269 Samsung The Samsung 15.6-inch Chromebook is a fairly angular looking Chromebook with some useful specs for the price. It has an Intel Celeron processor, 4GB of memory and 64GB of eMMC storage. The highlight here is a larger than average (for the price) 15.6-inch screen. It’s a full HD display so you can enjoy the 1920 x 1080 resolution along with an energy-efficient LED backlight. That means it’s a little heavier than some Chromebooks but it works out as about 3.75 pounds which is just fine. It also has a built-in media reader and HD webcam and microphone, so it covers all the basics.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
HP 14-inch Chromebook — $269, was $299 HP HP is one of the best laptop brands around at the moment and such quality translates to this HP 14-inch Chromebook. It has an Intel Celeron processor, 4GB memory and 64GB of eMMC storage which might not sound that eye-catching. Its 14-inch screen is only HD too so what’s so great about this laptop? Battery life is far better than others coming in at up to 14 hours during mixed usage. It also has a HP True Vision 720p HD webcam with integrated dual array digital microphones so it’s ideal for taking video calls while on the move. It looks pretty sleek too.
Lenovo Flex 3i — $319, was $349 Lenovo The Lenovo Flex 3i is a super sleek looking laptop with a particularly appealing 12.2-inch WUXGA touchscreen. Yup, that’s a small screen but it looks great with a 1920 x 1200 resolution and it’s LED backlit too. Even better, you can use its 360-degree hinge to flip it around into one of four modes — laptop, tablet, tent, and stand mode. Essentially, this is a laptop and tablet all in one. The functionality is teamed up with an Intel N100 processor, 4GB of memory and 64GB of eMMC storage. There’s also HDMI 1.4 output if you want to hook it up to another screen while the whole thing weighs just 2.75 pounds.
Lenovo IdeaPad Duet 5 — $469, was $499 Lenovo IdeaPad Duet 5i Mark Coppock/Digital Trends / Digital Trends One of the best Chromebooks around, the Lenovo IdeaPad Duet 5 has an utterly gorgeous screen. It has a 13.3-inch OLED screen with 1920 x 1080 resolution and self-lit pixels so you can enjoy deep blacks and vibrant colors all in one scene. It’s also a touchscreen with the Lenovo IdeaPad Duet 5 offering 2-in-1 capabilities so you can easily use it as a tablet as well as laptop. It’s powered by a Snapdragon 7cG2 processor, has 8GB of memory and 128GB of eMMC storage so it’s a cut above the rest. It’s incredibly lightweight too at just 2.2 pounds, while there’s a 5MP fixed-focus front-facing camera and 8MP autofocus rear-facing camera too.
Acer Chromebook 516 GE Cloud Gaming Laptop — $619, was $649 Acer Demonstrating that Chromebooks can even be used for gaming now that cloud gaming is mainstream, the Acer Chromebook 516 GE Cloud Gaming Laptop is certainly different. It has a 16-inch display with 2560 x 1600 resolution and 120Hz refresh rate so it’s well thought out for gaming purposes. It also has an Intel i5 processor, 8GB of memory and 256GB of SSD storage. This won’t be like one of the best gaming laptops as the focus is squarely on cloud gaming but that screen certainly means that whatever you stream will look great. There’s also a multi-zone RGB and anti-ghosting keyboard, along with DTS audio. It’s all been optimized to work particularly well with Nvidia GeForce Now’s top tier.
Editors' Recommendations 75 best Amazon Black Friday deals on laptops, TVs, Apple, and more Best Chromebook Black Friday deals on HP, Lenovo, and more Best Lenovo laptop Black Friday deals: Chromebooks, gaming laptops, and more Best Black Friday laptop deals: Get a new workhorse from $129 The best Lenovo gaming laptop Black Friday deals right now Deals Cheapest Prices Chromebooks Google Chrome Laptops Web With so many Black Friday deals already under way, it can be tough to keep on top of everything. Walmart has dozens of different awesome deals so we've narrowed things down to the best Walmart Black Friday deals currently available. There's a little bit of everything here with discounts on TVs, headphones, laptops, coffee makers, and much more. The retailer is also having a massive Black Friday Lego sale. Whatever you're considering buying, keep reading while we take you through some great options.
Other retailers have started early too, so check out Amazon Black Friday deals and Best Buy Black Friday deals.
Web Best Buy is pulling out the big guns this Black Friday to compete with Amazon Black Friday deals, and we're seeing a lot of great deals across the board, whether you want a laptop, a vacuum cleaner, or a fitness tracker. Of course, there are a lot of deals to go through, so we've done our best to collect some of our favorite ones below so that you don't have to. We'll also be updating this page as more and better deals come along, so be sure to check back regularly. Also, be sure to check out the Walmart Black Friday sale, as it's also going all out in the hopes of competing with Amazon.
Top 3 Best Buy Black Friday Deals Nest Hub -- $60, was $100 Computing If you've been looking out for some of the cheapest Black Friday laptop deals, you're going to love what Best Buy has to offer. Currently, you can buy the sleek looking Lenovo Slim 3 Chromebook for $149 saving a huge $170 off the regular price of $319. Ideal for taking to class or on your commute, this is easily one of the better Black Friday deals at the moment. If you've been waiting to find the right Black Friday Chromebook deals, this is the time to hit buy. If you're not entirely sold, keep reading while we take you through what the Chromebook has to offer.
Why you should buy the Lenovo Slim 3 Chromebook As one of the better Lenovo laptop Black Friday deals, the Lenovo Slim 3 Chromebook is a tempting proposition if your budget is slight but you still want something decent for the price. It has a MediaTek Kompanio 520 processor along with 4GB of memory and 64GB of eMMC storage. Refreshingly and making it a bit more tempting for those after the best Chromebooks, it also has a 14-inch full HD touchscreen.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
