Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing DDR5 memory: Everything you need to know By Jon Martindale Close DDR5 RAM is the next generation of system memory, and it’s just around the corner. It promises greater bandwidth, increased capacity, and lower power demands than existing DDR4, helping to make the most of not only modern CPUs but onboard graphics, too. If you want to take advantage of the fastest memory kits ever made, here’s everything you need to know about DDR5.
Pricing and availability Performance Capacity and power Pricing and availability TeamGroup The first DDR5 RAM chips were made in 2018, though it wasn’t until 2020 that the standard was officially released, and actual commercial kits didn’t become widely available until the summer of 2021. TeamGroup released the first kit of twin 16GB sticks at DDR5-4800 speeds, with a price tag of $311. That’s more expensive than most 32GB DDR4 kits, but not by much, and actually cheaper than the few DDR4 kits that can reach those speeds at that capacity.
It’s not yet known whether that kind of price will be typical of DDR5, as the kits sold out almost immediately. Typically, new-generation memory starts more expensive than the last, especially at higher capacities or frequencies, and then slowly prices equalize before the new, more populace generation of memory becomes the more affordable option.
What is Display Stream Compression? Everything you need to know about DSC Thunderbolt 4: everything you need to know GPT-4.5 news: Everything we know so far about the next-generation language model For now, DDR5 will remain a mere curiosity, however, as there are no options for mainstream processors and motherboards that can support it. The first platform that will be able to is Intel’s upcoming Alder Lake CPUs , which are slated for release at some point in the second half of 2021. Some Alder Lake CPUs have reportedly gone on sale in China, however, so the launch may be closer to the summer than winter.
Performance Zadak is one of the few manufacturers that have announced DDR5 modules.
Zadak DDR5 memory will bring with it a number of performance improvements, most notably a much greater frequency potential. Like DDR4 before it, the first kits won’t offer bandwidth drastically higher than that of the best last-generation kits, but they will be able to do it without enabling XMP and will have official motherboard support at those higher frequencies.
Although DDR4 kits have been shown to be capable of running in excess of 5Gbps, the official specification maxes out at 3.2Gbps. In comparison, DDR5 debuted at 4.8Gbps, but will be able to reach 6.4Gbps. Memory manufacturers will likely push the data rate far beyond that in due course, potentially reaching over 8Gbps.
As is expected from higher bandwidth memory, timings for DDR5 will be looser than was typically used on DDR4. The first TeamGroup Elite DDR5 modules had timings as loose as 40-40-40-77. In comparison, a competitive DDR4 G.Skill TridentZ DDR4-4800 kit has timings of just 20-30-30-50. That advantage may give DDR4 a performance edge in some settings compared to early DDR5 memory modules, but performance will improve considerably over the life of the technology.
The new channel architecture of DDR5 may play a part in improving its performance, too, by enhancing memory access efficiency. With DDR5, each DIMM will have two channels rather than one. Although the overall width of these channels will remain the same — 64 bits — the use of two smaller channels should improve efficiency, which could, in turn, improve performance, as well as signal integrity.
We’ll need to wait for third-party reviews of these modules on ready-for-release motherboards and processors, but early leaks suggest it holds a significant performance advantage over DDR4 at similar frequencies.
In one early benchmark , a 32GB DDR5 kit was over a third faster than a comparably specced DDR4 kit (with much tighter timings) in most tests and up to 112% faster in one particular benchmark.
Capacity and power One of the most obvious and immediate advantages of DDR5 is its support for greater-capacity memory chips. Where DDR4 dies were capped at 16GB, DDR5 has the ability to reach 64GB per chip, potentially offering individual stick capacities as high as 256GB. For mainstream PCs, this won’t hold a huge advantage at the top end, but it will be a big boost for HEDT systems and enterprise servers, where much larger single CPU memory arrays will be possible, further increasing the amount of data those monstrously powerful multi-core CPUs (and multi-CPU arrays) can access simultaneously.
One area where this will benefit mainstream PC owners is the upgradeability of their systems. Running a system on a single stick of 16GB or 32GB of memory makes it much easier to upgrade in the future with another stick. That’s particularly useful for small mini-ITX systems, which may only have two DIMM slots, too.
Low-power systems will also benefit from DDR5, as it’s rated to run at just 1.1v. That’s 0.1v less than DDR4, which can run higher when pushed using XMP or manual overclocking. DDR5 will likely offer performance advantages when running at higher voltages, too, but the potential may also be there to undervolt it and reduce its power demands further while still maintaining higher speeds than most DDR4 kits. That could be great news for laptops looking to boost battery life on new-generation hardware.
Editors' Recommendations AMD FSR 3: everything you need to know about Fluid Motion Frames AMD FSR (FidelityFX Super Resolution): everything you need to know DDR5 vs. DDR4 RAM: Is DDR5 worth it? How much RAM do you need? What is RAM? Here’s everything you need to know Computing GDDR7 memory is the next generation of graphics card memory that will power some of the best graphics cards of tomorrow, but it's not here yet. The best graphics cards in 2023 all use some version of GDDR6 or GDDR6X memory. It's fast, but GDDR7 VRAM promises to be faster still, and more energy efficient.
Here's everything we know about GDDR7.
Computing Non-binary memory. It might not be set to give you the same performance uplift as a new graphics card, and it's not as intriguing as AMD's X3D CPUs, but it's still an interesting new wrinkle in how you build a PC. Non-binary memory effectively allows half steps in RAM quantities, so instead of only having options for sticks of 8GB, 16GB, 32GB (and so on), you can now buy a 24GB DIMM, or a 48GB one.
That might not sound like much, but in the coming years as games demand more than 16GB -- but where 32GB would be overkill -- these new 24GB memory kits are going to be very popular for the cost-cutting they facilitate.
Computing The graphics card, also known as the GPU, is arguably one of the most exciting components in any PC build. Alongside the processor, your graphics card often has the greatest impact on the overall performance of your PC. That makes it a pretty high-stakes purchase, especially if you consider that GPUs can get pretty expensive.
The GPU market has a lot to offer, and that's regardless of your needs and your budget. Whether you're aiming for something super cheap to support some light browsing or a behemoth to handle the most GPU-intensive games, you have lots of options. In this guide, we'll show you what to look out for so that you can pick the best GPU that fits your budget and needs.
Nvidia, AMD, or Intel? Consumer graphics cards are generally split into two categories -- integrated and discrete graphics. Since you're here, you're most likely looking for a discrete (or dedicated) GPU, and that's what we're going to focus on in this article.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
