Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video What is OLED TV? The ultra-thin display technology fully explained By Simon Cohen Close If you’ve been considering a new TV , you’ve likely come across mentions of OLED TV in stores and online. And if you’ve walked into a Best Buy or a Costco and seen an OLED TV sitting next to a QLED TV or a regular LED TV , it might not have been immediately apparent how and why these three TV types are different from each other. After all, under the bright lights of a showroom floor, three or four 65-inch 4K TVs sitting next to each other can start to look the same. We’ve been there too. But if you give us a few minutes of your time, we’ll make you an OLED TV expert with as little jargon as possible. You still may decide an OLED TV isn’t for you, but you’ll make that decision knowing all of the facts.
What is OLED TV? Backlights versus self-lit pixels Wide viewing angles Ultra-thin, ultra-flexible construction Lightning-fast Got game? Energy efficiency Does this mean OLED TVs are better than other TVs? Conclusion What is OLED TV? OLED stands for organic light-emitting diode. It’s tempting to think that the only thing that separates an LED (light-emitting diode) TV from an OLED TV is that “organic” word, but there’s actually more to the story.
Backlights versus self-lit pixels Dan Baker/Digital Trends To really understand how an OLED TV is distinct from an LED TV or even a QLED (quantum dot light-emitting diode) TV, we need to talk about how a TV generates the light that makes its way to your eyes.
Best Samsung TV deals: Save on QLED and OLED TVs The best TV brands of 2023: from LG to TCL, which should you buy? Best QLED TVs for 2023: from TCL, Samsung, Hisense, and more LED and QLED TVs use a backlight. That backlight is composed of anywhere between a few dozen LEDs (this is where the “LED” in LED and QLED TV comes from) to a few thousand of them. Those LEDs create lots of light, but that’s all they do. In order for that light to become a picture that you recognize, it passes through two layers: An LCD (liquid crystal display) layer, which controls the amount of light that passes through each individual pixel, and then a color filter layer that ensures each pixel is tuned to the right color at the right time.
More TV technology explainers LED vs. LCD TVs explained: What’s the difference? MicroLED vs. OLED Mini-LED vs QLED TV: How one technology is improving the other Quantum dots and nanorods: Welcome to TV’s weird and wild future QD-OLED: The next breakthrough in TV picture quality, fully explained It’s a very effective (and reasonably affordable) way to build a TV that has a nice, bright image, with decent color, too. But there are drawbacks to this construction technique.
When an on-screen image calls for very dark areas (like the inky blackness of space), LED and QLED TVs must dim some or all of their backlight LEDs and then use their LCD panels to block as much of the remaining light as possible.
And though the newest QLED TVs with mini-LED backlights are really good at this task, most models of LED and QLED TVs struggle to present a truly deep and dark black. In some instances where a TV has very few LEDs that it can control, you get an effect known as blooming — that’s where light spills from a bright area of the image onto a dark area.
OLED TVs use a completely different design. Because each pixel is a self-contained organic light-emitting diode, they eliminate the need for a backlight. Those OLED pixels generate 100% of the light that an OLED TV produces. And because an OLED TV can control the behavior of each pixel, it can shut down light emission on a pixel-by-pixel basis. When an OLED pixel is turned off, it emits no light at all, giving OLED TVs their single biggest advantage over other TV designs: They can create a perfect black with little to no blooming.
Wide viewing angles Riley Young/Digital Trends OLED TVs can also maintain brightness and contrast from virtually any viewing angle, while the LCD panels in LED and QLED TVs act as a kind of tunnel for the light that gets emitted.
If you’re sitting dead-center, you’re perfectly aligned with these tunnels, and you get the maximum picture quality. But as you shift your seating position to the sides, that tunnel alignment becomes less accurate, which means less light is being aimed at your eyes. Some LED/QLED models suffer from very poor off-angle viewing, while others do a much better job. But even the best non-OLED models still exhibit a perceptible loss of quality when you sit off-center.
OLED TVs don’t use LCD panels, so there’s no tunneling effect.
Ultra-thin, ultra-flexible construction Rich Shibley/Digital Trends Another benefit to not needing a backlight or an LCD panel is that OLED TVs can be incredibly thin — just 2 or 3mm at their thinnest point. QLED TVs are getting thinner all the time, but none have come anywhere close to how thin OLED can get.
OLED panels are also remarkably flexible. It’s still only a feature of very expensive models, but you can now buy rollable OLED TVs that can expand to their full size or disappear entirely into a built-in stand, leaving no trace of the screen at all — a feat that is physically impossible for LED and QLED TVs.
OLED panels are also inherently transparent. It may be a few years before transparent OLED TVs become mainstream, but the technology already exists, and it will start showing up in non-TV applications in the near future.
Lightning-fast If your TV-watching habits are mostly around movies and TV shows, you probably don’t spend much time thinking about something called response time. That’s the time it takes (measured in milliseconds) for a single pixel on a TV to change its state. But when it comes to watching fast-paced sports or playing video games, the lower a TV’s response time, the better. That’s because the faster a pixel can respond to a change, the crisper the whole image appears.
OLED TVs are inherently blazingly fast because they don’t have to coordinate changes to a backlight with changes to an LCD panel pixel. The result: Response times as low as 0.2 ms. Compare that to one of the fastest QLED TVs at 3.3 ms, and you can see we’re talking about an order of magnitude.
It’s true that 3.3 ms is more than adequate for fast-action gaming, but what’s notable is that you have to buy one of the most expensive QLED TVs to get that result, while even the least expensive OLED TV you can buy is capable of sub-1 ms response times.
Got game? Image used with permission by copyright holder Speaking of gaming, LG’s OLED TVs are proving themselves to be superb gaming displays. Their fast response time combined with ultra-fast refresh rates give them the ability to offer Nvidia’s G-Sync and AMD’s FreeSync compatibility. These are two types of variable refresh rate (VRR) technologies used by PC and console manufacturers.
For the uninitiated, VRR lets a display (like a TV or monitor) match the frame rate of a video game. Depending on the game, this frame rate can vary a lot from scene to scene. Without VRR, these frame rate changes can create an unpleasant experience known as screen-tearing. With VRR, images remain smooth and clear.
To be fair, OLED TVs don’t have a monopoly on VRR, but right now, OLED models offer broader support for VRR than their LED/QLED counterparts.
Energy efficiency Prior to the use of mini-LEDs in backlights, OLED TVs enjoyed a clear advantage over LED and QLED TVs in terms of power consumption. Because OLED panels don’t need to power up a backlight (in addition to all of the other TV functions), they’re inherently more efficient — at least when compared to traditional LED-backlit TVs.
But mini-LED appears to be leveling the playing field. When the newest Samsung Neo QLED TVs were compared to LG’s newest OLED models, the Samsung TVs actually used slightly less power.
Does this mean OLED TVs are better than other TVs? Currently, we think that OLED TVs offer the best overall experience, but the technology does have a few drawbacks that you should be aware of, as these might affect your buying decision.
Bright, but not the brightest Caleb Denison/Digital Trends As we’ve shown above, not having a separate backlight gives OLED TVs a number of advantages, but it also creates some limitations. The biggest of these is maximum brightness. OLED panels derive 100% of their brightness from their individual OLED pixels. But the harder you drive an OLED pixel to emit bright light, the shorter its lifespan gets. That means OLED TV makers need to balance brightness with longevity.
TVs with LED or mini-LED backlights are far less susceptible to these lifespan concerns, so they’re able to produce a brighter image by increasing the maximum brightness of the backlight.
In most indoor environments, an OLED TV will feel sufficiently bright, but if you have a room with lots of windows or lots of lighting, you may find that an OLED TV simply doesn’t get bright enough to compete with the ambient light. In these situations, a QLED model is probably a better choice.
Beware of burn-in Dan Baker/Digital Trends The thing that gives OLED its unbeatable contrast and black levels (self-lit pixels) is also OLED’s Achilles heel when it comes to image retention. Image retention is when you can still see a “shadow” of an image on-screen even after that image is no longer being displayed. Typically, this only happens when a static (non-moving, non-changing) image is displayed for several minutes. The retained image usually disappears within a few seconds, but in extreme cases, it can become permanent. When this happens, it’s known as burn-in.
Burn-in is the result of uneven aging between pixels. If you leave a static image displayed for long periods of time, the bright areas of the image will age those specific pixels at a faster rate than the pixels that make up the darker areas. When the image eventually changes, and the new image requires that the “older” pixels display the same color and brightness as the “younger” pixels, you’ll be able to see the difference.
OLED TV makers have become very adept at preventing burn-in using a variety of techniques, but if you leave the same 24-hour news channel playing on an OLED TV for seven days a week for months at a time, the static elements, like channel logos or stock tickers, will eventually cause burn-in.
For most buyers, the threat of burn-in will be low to zero. But if you’re buying a TV to be a computer monitor replacement or to show the same content for long periods of time, an OLED TV is not an ideal choice.
Size and cost considerations OLED panels follow a different manufacturing process than LED and QLED TVs. This results in a sharp rise in cost as OLED panels get bigger.
At the 50- to 65-inch size range, OLED TVs are very competitive with LED and QLED TV in terms of price. But as you head into 70- to 98-inch territory, OLED pricing can feel like an order of magnitude more expensive than LED/QLED. For instance, Samsung’s 85-inch 8K QN900A currently costs $8,000, while LG’s 88-inch 8K ZX OLED TV is a whopping $33,000.
We think the LG ZX produces an absolutely gorgeous image, but we’re not convinced it’s three times better than the QN900A — something you might expect given their price differences.
Conclusion OLED TVs enjoy a number of advantages over LED/QLED TVs. If you’re shopping for a new TV between 50 and 65 inches, and you don’t have an excessively bright room or a 24/7 addiction to a single TV channel, we think OLED TV delivers the best possible image.
But as QLED TV makers embrace new technologies like mini-LED backlighting, OLED’s superiority grows a little thinner each year. And we don’t see extra-large OLED TVs ever being able to compete with QLED on a price-per-inch basis.
Editors' Recommendations Sharp’s promised Roku OLED TV is now available and deeply discounted Best OLED TV deals: Save on LG C3, Samsung S90C, and more The best OLED TVs for 2023: from LG, Sony, and Samsung Sony’s A75L is its most affordable 4K OLED TV so far Mini-LED vs. QLED TV: how one technology is improving the other LG Samsung TV Audio / Video If you've been on the search for your next TV, you've undoubtedly come across two acronyms that stand out the most when it comes to TV types -- QLED and OLED. And while newer TV tech like Samsung's QD-OLED (more on that below) has been turning some heads lately, for now, QLED and OLED TVs still rule the roost. But what's the difference between QLED and OLED? Companies like Samsung, TCL, and Hisense tout the incredible brightness of their QLED TVs, while LG, Sony, Panasonic, and others brag about the impressive contrast and black levels of their OLED TVs.
Audio / Video When it comes to smart TVs, these monolithic QLEDs and OLEDs require an internet connection to get you connected to services like Netflix and Disney+. But like any good computer or mobile phone, there’s an operating system taking care of apps, navigation, and all things user interface-oriented behind the scenes. For Samsung TVs, this OS is called Tizen, for LG TVs, it’s webOS, and for brands like Sony, TCL, and Hisense, it used to be called Android TV, but now (for the most part) it’s called Google TV.
While Google TV is really just an evolutionary leap based on the building blocks of Android TV, you’ll still see the Android TV moniker on a modern TV or two. Many modern home theater projectors also use the Android TV OS. That being said, it’s a platform that’s still relevant. Here’s everything you need to know about Android TV.
An important note on Android TV and Google TV Audio / Video Shopping for a new TV (especially if you haven’t done so in a few years) can be a crash course in three to four-letter acronyms. From sales floor price tags to online marketing, Samsung, LG, Sony, TCL, Hisense, and every TV brand under the sun is all about the tech verbiage -- QLED, OLED, mini-LED, QD-OLED, UHD, HD (these are just a handful of the go-to selections). But each one of these acronyms stands for something important, which in most cases is the kind of picture technology the TV is utilizing to give you things like mesmerizing brightness, rich colors, and awesome black levels.
But as products continue to evolve, there’s one set of TV acronyms that may not get the kind of magnifying glass attention it once commanded, even though it’s certainly still relevant when it comes to how your TV is illuminated, and that’s LED and LCD. Even though most TVs are actually LEDs these days, LCDs are definitely still around, and it pays to know the difference between both of these lighting technologies. Thus, we’ve put together this handy explainer to help you decide which is better, as well as the similarities and differences between both display types.
LED and LCD: Together forever Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
