Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? AMD Ryzen 6000: Everything you need to know By Jacob Roach Close Ryzen 6000 is AMD’s latest line of mobile processors, launching in over 200 laptop designs throughout 2022. The new generation moves to a smaller manufacturing process for higher clock speeds, as well as bringing unmatched integrated graphics to laptops.
Pricing and availability Architecture and specs Performance USB 4, Wi-Fi 6e, Microsoft Pluton Smarter laptops for smarter gaming AMD Ryzen 6000 laptops you can buy now To get you up to speed, we rounded up Ryzen 6000 specs, pricing, and benchmarks. If you’re a desktop user, you’ll have to hold tight until AMD’s Ryzen 7000 launch, which is coming in fall 2022.
Pricing and availability Image used with permission by copyright holder Ryzen 6000 CPUs released in laptops in February 2022, with AMD showcasing designs from Razer, Asus, and Lenovo, among others. As usual, it has been a slow trickle of Ryzen 6000 laptops as vendors move to update their catalogs. Asus is one of the first companies to embrace Ryzen 6000 with machines like the ROG Zephyrus G14.
Is there a Surfshark free trial? What you need to know What is NVMe? Everything you need to know about high-speed storage AMD FSR 3: everything you need to know about Fluid Motion Frames For pricing, we only know about the more expensive Ryzen 9 machines now. The ROG Zephyrus G14 clocks in at $1,650 for the Ryzen 9 6900HS and RX 6700S, scaling up to $1,900 if you want the more powerful RX 6800S GPU. Premium machines like the Razer Blade 14 are much more expensive, with Razer’s latest model running for $3,500 with a Ryzen 9 6900HX CPU and RTX 3080 Ti GPU.
We don’t have any cheaper options right now, but at Computex 2022, AMD detailed upcoming plans for new laptops based on its Mendocino CPUs coming in Q4 2022. These will be designed for Windows 11 laptops and Chromebooks priced between $400 and $700. Other, more mid-tier laptops around the $1,000 mark will be coming, with AMD pledging again at Computex to launch a further 60 Ryzen mobile laptops in 2022.
At Computex, AMD showed off new designs from HP, like its Elitebook with a claimed 26 hours of battery life, the Yoga Slim 7 Pro X ultrathin 1080p gaming laptop, the Alienware M17 R5 high-powered gaming laptop, and a new Legion 7, alongside bespoke designs from Origin PC and Corsair.
 They’re all launching within the next few months.
Architecture and specs Image used with permission by copyright holder Ryzen 6000 CPUs are based on the Zen 3+ architecture, which is an enhanced version of the Zen 3 architecture featured in Ryzen 5000 processors.
 The enhancements come from a smaller manufacturing process. Ryzen 6000 uses chipmaker TSMC’s 6nm process, while Ryzen 5000 used the slightly larger 7nm process.
That leaner process node is what’s helped unlock higher clock speeds of up to 5GHz on some designs, and freed up some space for the additional GPU cores on the higher-end models. Previously AMD mobile CPUs have been limited to just eight GPU cores, but with 12 onboard using the new RDNA 2 design, there’s massive potential for capable mobile graphics on these new CPUs.
Here are the Ryzen 6000 processors AMD is currently offering: Cores/Threads Base Clock Boost Clock Graphics cores Power draw Ryzen 9 6980HX 8/16 3.3GHz Up to 5GHz 12 45W+ Ryzen 9 6980HS 8/16 3.3GHz Up to 5GHz 12 35W Ryzen 9 6900HX 8/16 3.3GHz Up to 4.9GHz 12 45W+ Ryzen 9 6900HS 8/16 3.3GHz Up to 4.9GHz 12 35W Ryzen 7 6800H 8/16 3.2GHz Up to 4.9GHz 12 45W Ryzen 7 6800HS 8/16 3.2GHz Up to 4.7GHz 12 35W Ryzen 7 6800U 8/16 2.7GHz Up to 4.7GHz 12 15-28W Ryzen 5 6600H 6/12 3.3GHz Up to 4.5GHz 6 45W Ryzen 5 6600HS 6/12 3.3GHz Up to 4.5GHz 6 35W Ryzen 5 6600U 6/12 2.9GHz Up to 4.5GHz 6 15-28W These CPUs will be joined by new Mendocino CPUs later this year. These lower-tier designs will feature up to four cores and eight threads, using the older Zen 2 architecture on the same 6nm process. They’ll have an onboard RDNA2 GPU and will be designed for use in lower-power Windows 11 laptops and Chromebooks.
Performance AMD AMD made bold claims about Ryzen 6000’s performance when it announced the range at CES.
 The combination of new process nodes and enhanced clock speeds reportedly give the Ryzen 6800U a huge performance uplift over the last-generation favorite, the 5800U. In video encoding, it’s said to perform as much as 70% faster, and more than 130% faster in 3D rendering.
Some of this comes from the higher clock speeds, but it’s possible that the added support for DDR5 and LPDDR5 with Ryzen 6000 mobile CPUs has removed some of the memory bottlenecking that we’ve seen with previous Ryzen designs — something that AMD is fixing on desktop with its refreshed line of Ryzen 5000 3D VCache CPUs , and its upcoming Zen 4 chips, with their own DDR5 support.
Compared to the last generation’s options, Ryzen 6000 is a solid upgrade.
PC Gamer found about an 18% increase with the Ryzen 9 6900HS in the ROG Zephyrus G14 in Cinebench, compared to last gen’s Ryzen 9 5900HS. Although impressive gen-on-gen improvements, Ryzen 6000 still falls short of Intel’s 12th-gen Alder Lake options like the Core i9-12900HK.
In our testing of the new Asus Zenbook S 13 , we found it hotly competitive with the Intel competition.
AMD Outside of raw performance, Ryzen 6000 is also exciting with the inclusion of RDNA 2 integrated graphics — the same architecture behind AMD’s RX 6000 graphics cards. Some of those GPUs, like the Radeon 680M, offer comparable performance to older entry-level GPUs like the GTX 1050, making them fantastic for Esports gaming and older AAA games.
USB 4, Wi-Fi 6e, Microsoft Pluton Alongside the improvements in raw performance, Ryzen 6000 also brings with it some much-needed quality of life improvements from added feature support. Intel’s recent generations have held a notable advantage there, partly thanks to its monopoly on Thunderbolt technology. Ryzen 6000 helps to level that playing field a little with support for USB 4, which while not mandating the same high bandwidth as Thunderbolt 4 , can support everything up to and including it.
Ryzen 6000 also adds support for Wi-Fi 6e for the fastest networking and is the first CPU line to integrate Microsoft’s Pluton technology for much-improved security against hardware attacks on encryption keys and login credentials.
Smarter laptops for smarter gaming AMD has introduced a number of “Smart” features to its mobile devices in recent years. Laptops sporting both AMD CPUs and GPUs can make use of its Smart Access Memory for more efficient GPU communication; SmartShift Max , which transfers the power envelope between the CPU and GPU for added performance in gaming and productivity tasks; Smart Access Graphics lets the GPU communicate directly with the display for added performance, and Smart Shift Eco will help extend laptop battery life extensively by shifting between using the onboard GPU and the dedicated graphics chip when it debuts later this year.
At Computex 2022 AMD also announced a new smart technology, called Smart Access Storage. This leverages Microsoft’s DirectStorage API to improve game load times and texture streaming performance, all while cutting back on CPU overhead during gaming. No news on when it will debut just yet, but AMD promises more news in the coming months.
AMD Ryzen 6000 laptops you can buy now Image used with permission by copyright holder There aren’t too many Ryzen 6000 laptops at the moment, despite AMD launching the range in February. The majority of laptops are expected to arrive in summer, such as the Acer Nitro 5 and Alienware m17 R5. At the moment, here are the Ryzen 6000 laptops you can buy: Asus ROG Zephyrus G14 (Ryzen 9 6900HS) Razer Blade 14 (Ryzen 9 6900HX) Asus ROG Flow X13 (Ryzen 9 6900HS) Several more machines have been announced, and AMD says that over 200 Ryzen 6000 designs will eventually make their way to market.
Editors' Recommendations AMD is valiantly keeping its word to gamers AMD’s new CPUs decisively end the high-performance battle with Intel AMD’s new anti-lag tech could land you with a ban in games What is Display Stream Compression? Everything you need to know about DSC If you have an AMD GPU, stay away from the latest Windows Update Computing ChatGPT has continued to dazzle the internet with AI-generated content, morphing from a novel chatbot into a piece of technology that is driving the next era of innovation. No tech product in recent memory has sparked as much interest, controversy, fear, and excitement.
If you're just now catching on, it'd be fair to wonder what the fuss is all about. You can try it out for yourself for free (or use the official free iOS app), but here's the detailed guide you've been looking for -- whether you're worried about an AI apocalypse or are just looking for an intro guide to the app.
Computing Recently, a cybersecurity researcher discovered a dangerous vulnerability within AMD's Zen 2 processors. Dubbed "Zenbleed," the vulnerability allows attackers to gain access to your computer and steal all of the most sensitive information, including passwords and encryption keys. While this doesn't affect AMD's best processors, it's still a dangerous vulnerability with a wide reach, as it's present in all Zen 2 CPUs, including consumer chips and data center EPYC processors. AMD has a fix on the way, but it might come at a price.
The bug was first spotted by Tavis Ormandy, a researcher working with Google Information Security, who made it public at the end of July. Since then, the researcher has also released a proof of concept code that shows how it works. This, while useful, might help attackers exploit this vulnerability until AMD comes up with a fix.
Computing The best CPUs made by AMD represent excellent value for their money, offering high core counts and blistering clock speeds at reasonable prices. The most recent Ryzen 7000 range includes processors that can go toe to toe with the best from rival Intel. The question is: Which Ryzen CPU should you pick up? The Ryzen family is broken down into four distinct branches, targeting the entry-level, mainstream, performance, and high-end enthusiast sectors of the market — otherwise known as Ryzen 3, Ryzen 5, Ryzen 7, and Ryzen 9. They're all great chips in their own ways, but some certainly offer more value than others, and for many, the most powerful chips will be complete overkill. Then, there are also the top CPUs for gaming that belong to AMD's 3D V-Cache lineup.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
