Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best 14-inch laptops you can buy in 2023 By Jon Martindale and Mark Coppock Close The 14-inch laptop has a small — but noticeable — screen size upgrade over even the best 13-inch laptops , making them better choices for entertainment, gaming, or professional design while still being slim and portable enough to carry anywhere with you.
If this seems like a good fit for your busy life, we have the best 14-inch laptops you should check out, beginning with the excellent all-rounder Apple MacBook Pro 14. The brand-new machine has some of the best performance and battery life around to go with an excellent display. We also have picks for gaming, extra power, and affordability, so there should be something for everyone.
More Apple MacBook Pro 14 Mark Coppock / Digital Trends MacBook Pro 14 The best 14-inch laptop M2 Max boosts graphics Incredible XDR display Really impressive speakers Good 1080p webcam Battery life is even better Runs hotter and louder Why you should buy this : It offers the best combination of performance, efficiency, and display quality in a 14-inch laptop.
Who's it for : Anyone who wants an incredibly fast laptop that also offers superior efficiency.
Why we chose the Apple MacBook Pro 14 : The Apple MacBook Pro 14 slots in between the 13-inch and 16-inch models. However, it shares much more in common with the larger machine, including running Apple's new M2 Pro or M2 Max chips.
 On the MacBook Pro 14, these hybrid processors are available with either ten or 12 CPU cores and 16, 19, 30, or 38 GPU cores. RAM can be configured from 16GB all the way up to 96GB, and storage can be ramped up to an 8TB PCIe solid-state drive (SSD). Not only are the M2 Pro and M2 Max incredibly fast chips, but they're also efficient, meaning the MacBook Pro 14 should get superior battery life as well.
The laptop's display is also top-notch, utilizing Apple's 14.2-inch Liquid Retina XDR mini-LED ProMotion panel. This display offers incredibly wide and accurate colors, inky blacks thanks to deep contrast, and a 120Hz refresh rate. Apple has finally incorporated thin bezels in the MacBook Pro 14, making it a smaller laptop as well. And finally, Apple provides solid connectivity, adding an everything from an HDMI 2.1 port and SD card reader to USB-C Thunderbolt 4 ports, Wireless connectivity is as fast as you can get today with Wi-Fi 6E and Bluetooth 5.3 too.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Razer Blade 14 The best 14-inch gaming laptop Fantastic gaming performance Relatively cool and quiet Solid IPS screen Great battery life and portability Bulky charger More expensive than the previous model Why you should buy this : It's the best 14-inch gaming laptop by a country mile.
Who's it for : Gamers who want all the power but not all the weight.
Why we chose the Razer Blade 14 : Many gaming laptops are massive affairs, with aggressive venting and angles that make them embarrassing to use in conference rooms. That's definitely not the Razer Blade 14, which adheres to Razer's conservative yet elegant aesthetic with its all-black chassis with simple lines and a single Razer logo on the lid. It's a gaming laptop you can proudly use anywhere.
Inside, you'll find a powerful beast centered around the ultrafast AMD Ryzen 7 7940HS CPU. GPU choices include up to the Nvidia GeForce RTX 4070, meaning you can pack a real powerhouse into that svelte chassis.
The Razer Blade 14 goes head-to-head with the best 15-inch laptops you can buy, including Razer's own Blade 15.
 And it does so in a chassis that's remarkably thin at just 0.70 inches and light at 4.05 pounds.
More Best Buy Black Friday deals: 12 best offers you can shop now The best gaming PC Black Friday deals you can shop right now Best 2-in-1 laptop Black Friday deals from HP, Dell, Lenovo, and more Mark Coppock/Digital Trends Lenovo ThinkPad X1 Carbon Gen 11 The best business-class 14-inch laptop Solid build quality Dizzying array of display options Excellent keyboard Above-average battery life Good business support Touchpad is too small Expensive for the performance Why you should buy this : It's the best 14-inch business laptop you can buy.
Who's it for : Anyone who wants a solid business performer with great battery life and solid build quality and support.
Why we chose the Lenovo ThinkPad X1 Carbon Gen 11 : The latest version of Lenovo’s ThinkPad X1 line offers plenty of portable power with a laptop that’s a good fit, no matter what tasks you have in mind. The 14-inch Full HD+ (1920 x 1200) display we reviewed is a taller 16:10 aspect ratio for better productivity, and there are a full seven displays to choose from up to a 2.8K OLED display. The base model comes with a 13th-generation Intel Core Core i5-1335U processor with vPro, 16GB of RAM, and a 512GB solid-state drive (SSD). Ports include HDMI, two Thunderbolt 4/USB-C ports, and two USB-A 3.2 ports. Battery life is strong, and we also like the slim, spill-resistant keyboard with backlighting.
While you can upgrade a few different specs, including RAM and storage (new versions also include brightness and resolution upgrades), the base model of the Lenovo ThinkPad X1 Carbon Gen 11 makes for an ideal 14-inch laptop that’s ready for the long haul. However, the integrated graphics card is somewhat limited, and gamers in particular may want to look for something a little more specialized.
Image used with permission by copyright holder HP Elite Dragonfly G4 The lightest business-class 14-inch laptop Incredibly light at 2.2 pounds Solid build quality Strong business-oriented security and management Intel 13th-gen CPUs 13.5-inch 3:2 OLED display Expensive Why you should buy this : It's a fully-featured, business-class, 14-inch laptop that's also the lightest available.
Who's it for : Business users who need all the important business features without additional weight.
Why we chose the HP Elite Dragonfly G4 : For shoppers searching for a good business laptop , try HP’s 13.5-inch Elite Dragonfly G3 series, which is one of HP's best featherweight laptops. Yes, the display is technically less than 14 inches, but its 3:2 aspect ratio gives it a similar viewing area. And at 2.2 pounds, it's the lightest business-class 14-inch laptop you can buy.
One of the main priorities for this laptop is its security: HP’s security software suite is automatically included. The computer supports several other standout features, like NFC compatibility, which ultimately helps your files transfer efficiently. The Elite Dragonfly G3 also comes with two USB-C ports with Thunderbolt 4 and legacy connections including USB-A and HDMI.
The Elite Dragonfly G4's base model comes with a 13th-gen Intel Core i5-1335U processor, 16GB of RAM, and a 256GB SSD. It can be configured with up to a Core i7-1365U with vPro, and it also offers a host of display options including HP's Sure View privacy screen. The Elite Dragonfly G4 provides great productivity performance, solid business features, and long battery life.
Mark Coppock/Digital Trends Asus ZenBook 14 OLED The best affordable 14-inch laptop Excellent value Competent productivity performance Great battery life Comfortable keyboard and NumberPad 2.0 touchpad Solid build and attractive aesthetic Outstanding OLED display Creative performance is lacking Why you should buy this : It's an affordable laptop that offers something for everyone.
Who's it for : Anyone who wants a laptop that can handle anything you throw at it.
Why we chose the Asus ZenBook 14 OLED : It's not often that you can get a spectacular OLED display for well under $1,000, but that's exactly what you get with the ZenBook 14 OLED. It starts at $700 for an AMD Ryzen 5 7530U CPU, 8GB of RAM, and a 256GB SSD, and for just $170 more you can upgrade to a Ryzen 7 7730U, 16GB of RAM, and a 512GB SSD.
The laptop provides good productivity performance, great battery life, and a quality build with an excellent keyboard and touchpad with embedded LED numeric keypad. You'll struggle to find a laptop for the same money that provides such a value. In fact, the ZenBook 14 OLED would be a competitive laptop at twice the price.
Mark Coppock/Digital Trends Lenovo Yoga 9i Gen 7 The best 14-inch 2-in-1 Excellent performance Beautiful OLED display Gorgeous design Useful security and privacy features 1080p webcam Keyboard is only okay Average battery life Why you should buy this : It's the best convertible 2-in-1 you can buy and one of the best laptops, period.
Who's it for : Anyone who wants a laptop or convertible 2-in-1 with a luscious OLED 16:10 display and gorgeous design.
Why we chose the Lenovo Yoga 9i Gen 7 : We are huge fans of Lenovo's Yoga convertible 2-in-1s, compact and versatile laptops that pack plenty of power to handle even more demanding business situations. This 2-in-1 is no exception, portable enough to take anywhere and powerful enough to serve as a desktop replacement on business trips or in similar situations. Plus, Lenovo's reliable security features will help keep your data safe. The excellent configuration options also let you scale this laptop to exactly where you need it based on your software demands.
Inside, this 14-inch with 16:10 aspect ratio version equips a 12th-gen Intel Core i7-1260P processor, 16 GB of RAM, and up to 1TB of SSD storage. There are also two Thunderbolt 4/USB-C ports with USB4 support that are ready for all your upcoming connection upgrades, along with a USB-A 3.2 Gen 2 port. You can also choose a 4K+ OLED display option if the details are especially important in your line of work.
Frequently Asked Questions To be precise, 15-inch laptops typically equip 15.6-inch displays, which are considerably larger than 14-inch displays and provide quite a bit more room to work. That also makes 15-inch laptops themselves significantly larger, even given today's minimal display bezels, which is one tradeoff. Another is that the larger the display, the less sharp it will be at a given resolution. So, while Full HD (1920 x 1080) might be fine at 14 inches, it can be less sharp than you want at 15.6 inches. You'll want at least QHD (2560 x 1440) resolution to ensure that text and images remain sharp. Another tradeoff is in battery life, where the larger the display, the less longevity — which is why 15-inch laptops tend to have larger batteries, which contributes to their usually heavier weight.
So, the question of whether you should buy a 14-inch or a 15-inch laptop comes down to how you feel about those tradeoffs and how important the increased screen real estate is to your workflow. If you tend to open a lot of windows and keep them side by side, then you'll benefit from a 15-inch laptop. If you tend to single-task, then a 14-inch laptop might provide a good compromise between chassis size and weight, screen size, and resolution.
Most 13-inch laptops tend to be 13.3 inches, making less of a difference between display sizes in a 13- and a 14-inch laptop. At the same time, the 14-inch chassis sizes have decreased as manufacturers manage to pack 14-inch displays into ever-smaller laptops. Therefore, there's less of a tradeoff in laptop size and weight than there is between 14-inch and 15-inch laptops. You'll also probably find Full HD to be sharp enough on 14-inch displays, meaning you don't have as much of a need to jump up in resolution. In addition, battery life isn't as impacted, and 14-inch laptops often get better battery life than 13-inch laptops given the increase in available space for battery capacity. Finally, manufacturers are more likely to include discrete graphics in 14-inch laptops, making them better for creative types and gamers.
For many people, then, a 14-inch laptop will indeed be a better choice than a 13-inch laptop. You'll get a slightly increased display size in a laptop that's still small enough to be highly portable, and it might be more powerful as well.
Looking for something a bit different? Check out our list of the best laptops we've tried and tested for more options.
Editors' Recommendations Best Black Friday gaming laptop deals: Cheapest prices today 11 Best Buy Black Friday laptop deals you can’t afford to miss today The best 17-inch laptop Black Friday deals you can shop right now The best Lenovo laptops for 2023: ThinkPad, Yoga, and more The best budget laptops for 2023 Best Products Laptops Lenovo Computing If you want to upgrade from a laptop with a small screen, you should be on the lookout for 17-inch laptop deals. These devices offer some of the largest displays that you can get on a laptop, but they range from affordable options to high-end machines, and are made by the best laptop brands. You can take your pick among all of the available offers online, but to help you narrow down your choices, we've gathered our favorite bargains below. You need to hurry with your purchase though, as laptop deals like these usually don't last long.
Asus CX1700CK Chromebook — $269, was $299 The Asus CX1700CK Chromebook is one of the cheapest options for a 17-inch laptop, because instead of Windows, it's powered by Google's Chrome OS. Chromebooks run smooth despite low-end components like the Asus CX1700CK Chromebook's Intel Celeron N4500 processor, integrated Intel UHD Graphics, and 4GB of RAM. Its 17.3-inch screen offers Full HD resolution, and you can supplement its limited 64GB eMMC with cloud storage on Google Drive.
Computing Whether you're looking for a simple, cheap laptop or a gaming behemoth, HP is a great option to consider. There are always nice laptop deals at HP, on big rigs and simple Chromebooks. If you're not sure where to start, check out our list below. It includes HP laptops as cheap as $199 and as expensive as $1,250, with savings as big as $450.
14-inch HP Chromebook X360 -- $199, was $329 The cheapest option on this list is the Chromebook x360 from HP. It's a great option for students, since it runs fast and light, and the price is low. It does have some interesting bonuses, like the 2-in-1 ability. This is great if you like using a tablet but occasionally want a full keyboard for writing essays or answering emails. The HP x360 Chromebook has a FHD screen, 4GB of RAM 64GB of eMMC storage, and an Intel Celeron processor.
Computing To earn the crown as the best laptop in 2023, it needs to have it all: gorgeous design, killer performance, a productive keyboard, long-lasting battery life, and much more.
Each of the laptops below has been vetted thoroughly by us here at Digital Trends. Whether it's an affordable Chromebook or a top-of-the-line gaming laptop, they've all been subjected to real-world testing, as well as benchmark and battery tests, to collect data to objectively pit them against each other.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
