Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Acer Chromebook Vero 514 Review Chromebook vs Laptop Screenshot on a Chromebook Reset a Chromebook Best Chromebooks Chromebook Problems Split Screen on a Chromebook Home Computing Products Best Android apps for Chrome OS By Jayce Wagner Close As smartphones grow in size and power, computers and tablets are slimming down, closing the gap between the devices. Similarly, certain apps cross over between the two, allowing users to have all their favorite functions on both their Chromebook and smartphone.
Netflix YouTube Google Photos Spotify Slack Outlook SignEasy Google Keep Snapseed Aqua Mail Kindle Infinite Painter Autodesk Sketchbook Duolingo Asphalt 9 So, Android users, the time has come. Here are the Android apps that you can use on all your devices that use Chrome OS.
 From streaming networks to games and life-organizing apps, we cover them all in this list of the best android apps for Chrome OS.
Netflix No app list on the internet right now would be complete without Netflix app. Without it, how would you procrastinate, how would you fill your evenings, how would you chill ? Exactly. The Netflix app for Chrome OS is every bit as capable as the Netflix app on every other platform, and if you’ve ever used it on an Android device, it should be pretty familiar. Just sign into your account (or your old roommate’s account you still have access to) and pick up where you left off — presumably watching some of the best movies on Netflix.
The best Chromebooks for 2023 The best Windows apps for 2023 The best free parental control software for PC, Mac, iOS, and Android YouTube Okay, maybe you could still procrastinate without Netflix. But good luck putting off those deadlines without YouTube, right? The site has everything, from viral videos to free movies , and now you can easily browse on your Chromebook. The Chrome OS app is ultimately a carbon-copy of the Android version — it’s pretty much the same as the YouTube web app, but a little cleaner. Don’t worry, your subscriptions and weird faves are right where you left them.
Google Photos If you have an Android phone, you probably already enjoy Google Photos, particularly after a recent redesign.
 The Google Photos app also works pretty well on Chrome OS. It’s a great place to browse for old photos you had no idea your phone backed up — and subsequently delete them. All of them. Yeah, especially those ones.
 You can also edit photos, organize them into albums, and apply the usual assortment of filters. It’s an easy pick for the best Android apps for Chromebooks.
Spotify No more firing up Spotify in your browser, nope, now you and download the Spotify app for the fullexperience. It features the same functionality, but now you can free up a browser tab and keep listening to all your musical favorites, get recommendations, and all the other Spotify features you love.
Slack Now you can run your Slack app from your Chromebook’s desktop rather than trying to keep up with your co-workers in a browser tab that will inevitably get closed by accident. It runs a little better from the app than it does in a browser tab anyway — even if you can’t blame missed messages on your browser anymore.
Outlook Outlook, everyone’s favorite productivity app , provides a fully-featured experience that you just don’t get when its tethered to a flimsy browser tab. Now you can get all those important notifications, meeting invites, and calendar alerts that you’d been missing out on. It’s another way pick for best Android apps for Chromebooks.
SignEasy All right, this one’s nothing exciting but if you’ve ever tried to digitally sign something in a browser, it’s a very welcome change. SignEasy allows you to sign, initial, and submit important documents and keep a detailed record of them right there in the app.
Google Keep Image used with permission by copyright holder Google Keep is a handy post-it note-taking app for Android that works great on Chrome as well. If you like leaving notes for important reminders or events, you’ll love the ease of use and cross-compatibility of this app. It also supports photos and voice messages, although the post-its are best suited for Chrome OS.
Snapseed Image used with permission by copyright holder Not satisfied with your current photo editing options? Snapseed works great on Android for improving photos you just took, but it also functions on Chrome OS so you can deal with past photos that may need a brush-up, new filter, add-on, cropping — the app has a whole lot of options and works great for many different kinds of photo editing.
Aqua Mail Image used with permission by copyright holder If you juggle multiple emails for work or school, Aqua Mail has your back. This innovative email platform lets you access all your emails from various sources and organize them as you prefer. It also offers excellent integration and syncing for popular calendar apps, printing apps, assistant software, task apps, and more.
Kindle Fire up the Kindle reader in a browser. Go ahead, we’ll wait. Not a great reading experience is it? Well, now you can just open the Kindle Android app and actually enjoy reading that digital copy of War & Peace you’ve been chipping away at for years. Or, you know, read literally anything else.
Infinite Painter Paint, infinitely. Seriously, this app will let you paint forever and ever. Most other painting apps do that too, but it’s nice to have options now that your Chromebook can run Android apps — and legit digital art suites.
 Infinite Painter includes a set of customizable brushes, and editing tools to create or add-on to existing works, and since it’s optimized for Android, it’s not going to make your poor Chromebook struggle to keep up.
Autodesk Sketchbook You can’t discuss digital media creation tools without mentioning at least one Autodesk app. Sketchbook combines a vast array of digital brushes, pencils, and other tools to round out a remarkably full-featured Android app. It’s not as responsive as a pencil and paper, but with the right Chromebook — and the right stylus — it comes pretty close.
Duolingo Duolingo for Android also runs very well on Chrome OS, so you can finally polish up those Spanish skills with the help of a nagging little owl who will message you every day until you cave and re-learn your verbs again.
 It’s for your own good, the little owl will say, relentlessly prodding you day and night.
Asphalt 9 Asphalt 9 offers a fun-filled roster of cars from real-life brands that you can customize to your heart’s content before going street racing on maps around the world. While Chromebooks aren’t exactly designed to be racing game machines, Asphalt 9 does a good job of lowering the requirements for a smooth experience without destroying the racing fantasy.
Editors' Recommendations The best tablets in 2023: top 11 tablets you can buy now The best 2-in-1 laptops in 2023 The best Mac apps for 2023: top software for your Mac This secret Samsung laptop may merge ChromeOS with DeX The best ChatGPT Chrome extensions to bring AI to your browser Android Buying Guides Android Apps Buying Guides Chromebooks Google Google Chrome Laptops Computing The best GPU overclocking software in 2023 is the same as it's been for the past decade: MSI Afterburner. It's an awesome tool for pushing your graphics card to its extremes, whether you're trying to eke out a little more power from your RX 6500 XT, or push your RTX 4090 beyond its already ridiculous performance.
That's not the only graphics card overclocking tool worth considering though. AMD and Nvidia's first-party apps have been getting better and better, and there are some other manufacturer-specific GPU overclocking tools worth considering.
Computing Chrome Apps on your Chromebook is finally about to be replaced by Progressive Web Apps (PWA), with the latest Chrome stable version 112 as the starting point.
It's an initiative almost five years in the making, and this change brings a few notable benefits.
Computing Chromebooks are great alternatives to MacBooks and Windows 10 laptops, but they aren’t perfect. Any laptop computer is bound to have issues, and some of the most common problems faced by Chromebook users can feel difficult or even impossible to solve on their own.
From issues with updates to internet connectivity, troubleshooting common Chromebook problems doesn’t have to ruin your day. Read on to discover easy fixes for the most frequent issues Chromebook users face.
The Diagnostics app Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
