Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Best HP laptop deals: Get a Windows laptop for $199 By Noah McGraw Close Whether you’re looking for a simple, cheap laptop or a gaming behemoth, HP is a great option to consider. There are always nice laptop deals at HP, on big rigs and simple Chromebooks. If you’re not sure where to start, check out our list below. It includes HP laptops as cheap as $199 and as expensive as $1,250, with savings as big as $450.
14-inch HP Chromebook X360 — $199, was $329 14-inch HP Stream — $199, was $229 17-inch HP Laptop 17z — $280, was $500 15-inch HP Victus — $550, was $900 13-inch HP Spectre x360 — $1,100, was $1,550 17-inch HP Omen — $1,250, was $1,700 14-inch HP Chromebook X360 — $199, was $329 Mark Coppock/Digital Trends / Digital Trends The cheapest option on this list is the Chromebook x360 from HP. It’s a great option for students, since it runs fast and light, and the price is low. It does have some interesting bonuses, like the 2-in-1 ability. This is great if you like using a tablet but occasionally want a full keyboard for writing essays or answering emails. The HP x360 Chromebook has a FHD screen, 4GB of RAM 64GB of eMMC storage, and an Intel Celeron processor.
14-inch HP Stream — $199, was $229 HP Tied for cheapest HP laptop currently on sale, this HP Stream is part of some fantastic student laptop deals.
 Computer prices are nowhere near as high as they used to be, and here’s a perfect example. If you just need a simple laptop for writing essays, browsing social media and watching movies, the HP Stream will cover all the bases. It’s light on components, with similar specs as the Chromebook above. For instance, it has the Intel Celeron processor, 4GB of RAM and 64GB of eMMC storage, which is certainly enough for the basic demands of a student laptop but doesn’t reach beyond that.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
17-inch HP Laptop 17z — $280, was $500 HP If the size of your laptop screen is the most important factor in your purchase, the HP 17z should be on your list. It’s main selling point is the big 17.3-inch HD screen. It only runs at 1600 x 900 resolution, but it’s about as big as a display can get on a laptop. The internal components on the 17z are still budget friendly. It has a budget AMD processor and graphics card , which are just a step above the cheaper computers on this list. It also has 128GB of storage, so you’ll have enough room for some photo and video projects before needing external hard drive deals to expand your storage.
15-inch HP Victus — $550, was $900 Mark Coppock / Digital Trends The Victus is one of HP’s most popular gaming laptops.
 Part of that is the price. This model of the Victus will let you play a lot of modern AAA games for under $600 — but you won’t be playing them at their highest settings. It has respectable components for the price though: an Intel Core i5 processor, a quality Nvidia GeForce RTX 3050 graphics card, and 8GB of RAM. This kind of hardware will suit you pretty well for most modern games, but you may want to consider a RAM upgrade in the future.
13-inch HP Spectre x360 — $1,100, was $1,550 Mark Coppock / Digital Trends If you’re not interested in gaming but need a powerful laptop for work, the Spectre is a line of HP laptops to look into. This particular model is an x360, meaning it can fold over into a tablet with a touch screen. The screen itself is a 13.5-inch WUXGA+, meaning it runs at 1920 x 1280 resolution, the highest on this list. Inside it sports an Intel Core i7 processor and 16GB of RAM, but the graphics card is just an integrated Intel Iris X. If like speed and power but mostly work in Microsoft Office and browsers, this is a good option.
17-inch HP Omen — $1,250, was $1,700 HP HP’s premier gaming line is the Omen series. If you’re looking for high-quality gaming in a mobile package, this 17-inch HP Omen is a nice option. It has an Intel Core i7 processor, an Nivida GeForce RTX 4060 graphics card, and 16GB of RAM. That graphics card is a big upgrade from the cheaper Victus on this list. The display is a nice and roomy 17.3 inches, can run at 1080p, and has a 144Hz refresh rate. It even has a four-zone RGB keyboard.
Editors' Recommendations Best Black Friday gaming laptop deals: Cheapest prices today The best HP laptop Black Friday deals happening right now Best Black Friday laptop deals: Get a new workhorse from $129 Black Friday laptop deal drops this Lenovo Chromebook to $149 11 Best Buy Black Friday laptop deals you can’t afford to miss today Deals Cheapest Prices Laptops Computing Alienware is known for its high-end gaming laptops, which are not only powerful but are also quite pricey. Luckily, there are some great Black Friday deals on its laptops with both AMD and Intel CPUs, so you have a bit of a choice on what sort of setup you want to go with. While you're here, it is worth taking a look at the wider Alienware Black Friday deals and Dell Black Friday deals for even more options. We love Alienware, but consider browsing the similar Razer gaming laptop Black Friday deals.
Alienware Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals (AMD) AMD processors tend to be a little bit more power efficient and cheaper than Intel CPUs, and while that won't make a big difference with a gaming laptop, it's a nice little addition to have. Luckily, unlike other brands, Alienware doesn't shy away from combining AMD CPUs with high-end hardware like an RTX 4090, so if you'd like to go with and AMD CPU, you'll have a lot of choices to pick from.
Computing Gamers who don't want this year's Black Friday deals to end without buying a powerful gaming laptop for much cheaper than usual should check out the offers that were launched by Razer. One of the most popular gaming brands, it doesn't disappoint with its high-performance and stylish machines. We've rounded up our top picks for Razer gaming laptop Black Friday deals below, including our absolute favorite, so don't waste any more time -- find the model that you want and proceed with the purchase, while the discounts are still online. If gaming isn't your sole focus, you'll find other powerful laptops in our list of the best Black Friday laptop deals.
Best Razer gaming laptop Black Friday deal The top-of-the-line performance provided by the Razer Blade 15 actually makes it a steal at its discounted price, as it's the only machine that you'll need for the next few years if you're looking forward to some upcoming PC games. Inside the gaming laptop are the 12th-generation Intel Core i7 processor, Nvidia GeForce RTX 3070 Ti graphics card, and 16GB of RAM, which are enough to run today's most popular titles at the highest settings. Its 15.6-inch screen with QHD resolution and a 240Hz refresh rate will give justice to all that power, and you'll be able to install several AAA games on its 1TB SSD that ships with Windows 11 Home. Originally $3,000, the Razer Blade 15 is down to $1,800 following a $1,200 discount from Razer for Black Friday.
Computing If you've wanted to upgrade your gaming PC but missed out on the previous sales during Prime Day, then you're absolutely in luck. With Black Friday deals taking place all over November now, we're starting to see many excellent deals on gaming PCs, whether you're going for an AMD-based setup or an Intel-based one. To that end, we've collected some of our favorite deals and sectioned them off into AMD and Intel so you can pick the brand you prefer.
These include some crossover sales with Dell Black Friday deals and Alienware Black Friday deals, since the latter is sold by the former. We've also trawled through Best Buy Black Friday deals for the best gaming deals. If you want something more mobile, check out the best Black Friday gaming laptop deals.
Best Gaming PC Black Friday Deals (AMD) Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
