Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best laptops for college for 2023 By Mark Coppock Close Finding the best laptop for college students is no easy task. In addition to offering snappy performance for note-taking and applications, the machines need to be highly portable and reasonably priced. Using our best laptop picks, we rounded up five machines that are great for college students.
We have two top recommendations depending on the operating system you prefer. The HP Pavilion Plus 14 is an affordable machine with a gorgeous 90Hz OLED display, and the Apple MacBook Air M1 showcases the best Apple has to offer at an affordable price.
More More Mark Coppock / Digital Trends HP Pavilion Plus 14 The best all-around for homework and media Spectacular 90Hz OLED display Class-leading build quality Excellent keyboard and touchpad Solid productivity performance Strong value at sale prices Review unit performance limited by throttling Poor battery life Why should you buy this : You won’t find many laptops that provide a better combination of low price, great performance, and lightweight design.
Who’s it for : College students who don’t have a lot to spend but still demand a great laptop.
What we thought of the HP Pavilion Plus 14 : A well-built, feature-complete, affordable machine, the HP Pavilion Plus 14 does it all. The laptop is an upscale version of HP's Pavilion budget and midrange lineup, offering a thinner chassis and a 90Hz 2.8K (2880 x 1800) OLED display for just $820 (on sale). This updated version comes with up to a 45-watt 14-core (six Performance and eight Efficient) 12th-generation Intel Core i7-12700H processor and offers a premium-like build quality.
Even better, you can get a version of the Pavilion Plus 14 with a 15-watt 10-core (two Performance and eight Efficient) Intel Core i5-1240P, discrete Nvidia GeForce MX550 GPU, and a 2.2K (2240 x 1400) IPS display for just $680 on sale. That's a lot of laptop for not a lot of money.
We love the way the Pavilion Plus 14 looks with its conservative yet attractive design that comes in one of five colors. And you'll love the way it feels and performs, as well. And if you opt for the OLED display, you'll enjoy binging HDR video when you're not attending class or finishing coursework.
Mark Coppock/Digital Trends / Digital Trends Apple MacBook Air M1 The most affordable MacBook Apple's M1 blows Intel away Phenomenal battery life Excellent keyboard and touchpad Rock-solid build quality Simple good looks Supports only one external display Why should you buy this : It's the most economical entry into Apple's MacBook ecosystem.
Who’s it for : Any college student who loves the Mac but doesn't have the budget for the MacBook Pro.
What we thought of the Apple MacBook Air M1 : For years, the MacBook Air has been a thin, light alternative to the MacBook Pro that performs worse. But no longer. Apple's M1 chip provides excellent performance across all the devices it's in, and the fanless MacBook Air M1 shows that off perfectly. In our head-to-head matchup, we found that the MacBook Air is the better option overall. Plus, it's cheaper.
The base model clocks in at only $999, and it features eight CPU cores, seven GPU cores, 256GB of solid-state drive (SSD) storage, and 8GB of unified memory. Regardless of the configuration you choose, you'll get Apple's beautiful Retina display and Magic Keyboard, which vastly improves on previous MacBook keyboards.
For downsides, there aren't many. The MacBook Air M1 packs all the power you need into a remarkably thin and light laptop, and it still manages to feature one of the best displays and keyboards on the market. The only issue you'll run into is port selection. The MacBook Air M1 only features two Thunderbolt/USB 4 ports -- one of which you'll need to occupy while charging -- and a headphone jack. That said, our roundup of the best Thunderbolt 3 docks can help you expand your connectivity.
The MacBook Air M2 has been released with a completely new redesign and Apple's M2 CPU, but it's more expensive at $1,199 — meaning the MacBook Air M1 remains the most affordable MacBook.
More Best Chromebook Black Friday deals on HP, Lenovo, and more Best Black Friday laptop deals: Get a new workhorse from $129 Black Friday laptop deal drops this Lenovo Chromebook to $149 Mark Coppock/Digital Trends / Digital Trends Microsoft Surface Go 3 The best affordable Windows 11 tablet Excellent build quality Superior display for a budget machine Great Active Pen support Small and light Surprisingly good real-world performance Can get expensive Mediocre battery life Keyboard and touchpad are cramped Why should you buy this : You won’t find a better Windows 10 tablet for taking your notes in class and then working on papers back in the dorm.
Who’s it for : College students who want to replace paper with electronic notes.
What we thought of the Microsoft Surface Go 3 : The first Surface Go was designed to be an ultra-portable computing device that could fit just about anywhere. Now in its third generation, the tablet is a bit heavier (0.05 pounds more) but also has a larger 10.5-inch HD display and performance options up to a new Intel Core i3-10100Y processor. At a low price, it's clearly a competitor for Apple's entry-level iPad and a strong choice if you like the iPad but need a Windows-oriented device for classes.
It also offers class-leading active pen support, with the Surface Pen providing the lowest latency in a Windows 11 tablet, 4,096 levels of pressure sensitivity, and tilt support. That means it’s awesome for taking handwritten notes and making quick drawings, something that can certainly come in handy for today’s college students.
If you're looking for something with a little bit more power, why not check out the Surface Pro 8 ? More Mark Coppock/Digital Trends / Digital Trends Asus Chromebook Duet 3 An affordable and functional Chrome OS tablet Good enough productivity performance Excellent battery life Surprisingly good display Folio kickstand and keyboard included Strong value Keyboard is too cramped Limited to Wi-Fi 5 Why should you buy this : It's a 2-in-1 Chromebook that can stand up to college life particularly well.
Who’s it for : College students who don't need to run heavy applications.
Why we picked the Lenovo Chromebook Duet 3 : Chrome OS makes a lot of sense for college students. To begin with, Google's OS is used at many schools as the platform of choice due to its lightweight yet secure nature. Plus, laptops that run Chrome OS don't need to be high-end. The Chromebook Duet 3 is a case in point, running on an efficient Qualcomm Snapdragon 7c Gen 2 CPU yet providing plenty of performance.
And, The Chromebook Duet 3 is only $300 including the kickstand and detachable keyboard. If you want to use it for taking notes and making sketches, then you can pick up an active pen. Since this is a Chromebook, it's designed to be used primarily with the cloud but can still work offline via the 64GB of eMMC storage. For transferring data, you have two USB-C ports, a USB-A port, and a microSD card slot.
The Chromebook Duet 3 is affordable, easy to use, and secure. It's a laptop that just works with no muss and fuss.
Dell Dell G15 Gaming Laptop One of the more affordable gaming laptops Affordable 12th-gen CPUs Up to Nvidia GeForce RTX 3070 Ti Up to 240Hz QHD display Plastic construction No per-key RGB keyboard lighting Why should you buy this : It provides a relatively thin and light laptop with some real gaming chops without breaking the bank.
Who’s it for : Any college student with a limited budget who wants to take a gaming break from classes and homework.
What we thought of the Dell G15 Gaming Laptop : The Dell G15 is a nice compromise at a reasonable price. If you don't want to go wild with the best gaming laptops but still want to boot up a few games outside of class, the Dell G15 is for you. It features an attractive build with just enough flare to be considered a gaming laptop, and it has thoughtfully configured specs that give you decent gaming performance while keeping the price low.
At the heart of the machine is a 12th-gen Intel Core CPU, either a 45-watt 12-core (four Performance and eight Efficient) Core i5-12500H or 14-core Core i7-12700H. For gaming, the Dell G15 comes with up to an Nvidia GeForce RTX 3070 Ti. Configured with a Core i5, 8GB of RAM, a 256GB SSD, a 120Hz 15.6-inch Full HD display, and an RTX 3050 Ti, the Dell G15 costs just $880. That's faster enough for well beyond 30 frames per second (fps) in the latest AAA games at 1080p, and even higher frame rates in esports titles.
You can take advantage of those extra frames, too. The Dell G15 features up to a 15.6-inch full QHD display that boasts a 240Hz refresh rate. The laptop works well for note-taking, too, but we imagine a slight decline in productivity after picking up a G15.
Frequently Asked Questions There was once a time when our answer would be a strong "no," primarily because gaming laptops were once usually much larger, thicker, and heavier than non-gaming machines. That's the last thing you want to carry around from class to class. That's no longer true today, when many gaming laptops are thinner and lighter than ever. In addition to our Dell G3 Gaming pick above, the Razer Blade is perhaps the classic example of a laptop that's made for gamers, with fast CPU and GPU options, but isn't much thicker or heavier than other laptops.
At the same time, gaming laptops tend to focus more on performance than battery life, and you'll pay a premium to carry around those gaming components in a thin and light chassis. The great thing is that many laptops today have Thunderbolt 3 ports that can connect to external GPU enclosures for some extra gaming oomph. If you choose a laptop with at least a quad-core 8th-gen Intel CPU and at least 8GB of RAM, then you can attach it to an external GPU and get performance that's pretty darn close to a dedicated gaming laptop. And your choice of a laptop will be much wider, including choosing among the horde of excellent 2-in-1s that have hit the market over the last several years.
You'll want enough storage for the operating system, your applications, and all of the documents and other files you'll need to keep up with your studies.
Microsoft recommends 64GB for Windows 11 itself, and you can figure that at least 50GB will be required once your laptop is up and running. Then, you'll want to factor in your applications and keep in mind that many games can take up a few gigabytes (or more) all by themselves. That means that a 128GB SSD might be a little light and that 256GB is likely a better starting point.
If you want to balance cost (the larger the SSD, the more you'll pay, naturally) and expandability, then look for a laptop with an SD card slot. Today, you can add a 400GB microSD card for around $60, meaning that if your local storage gets maxed out, it's possible to greatly expand the space available for your most important documents. Also, if you use a cloud storage service like Microsoft's OneDrive that allows you to store all of your documents offline and then download only those you need right now, then you can save on local storage requirements.
Google’s Chrome OS might be a better choice for any college student whose schoolwork is limited to web use and word processing. Chrome OS doesn’t require performing components. Chromebooks are perfect if you’re looking for a fast, affordable, and lightweight laptop. You will also get excellent battery life for the money.
The Chromebooks have a leg-up on security when compared to Windows 10 and macOS machines. Thanks to regular updates, students are less likely to run into security or software problems.
Parents will find these machines more limited and less likely to tempt a college student to waste time on non-essential tasks and software. There's a reason why Chrome OS is increasingly popular in educational environments and why Google continues to focus on making the OS attractive to students.
Editors' Recommendations Best Black Friday gaming laptop deals: Cheapest prices today Best Lenovo laptop Black Friday deals: Chromebooks, gaming laptops, and more Best Buy Black Friday deals: 12 best offers you can shop now 11 Best Buy Black Friday laptop deals you can’t afford to miss today The best early Amazon Black Friday laptop deals available now Best Products Laptops Computing Even if your router is only four or five years old, it might be time for an upgrade, given the recent advances in router tech, such as Wi-Fi 6, which has become much more prominent. The same also applies to mesh routers, which have more advanced technology that can handle multiple connected devices, such as smart lights, home security systems, phones, and so forth. Of course, you don't have to pay a lot of money to grab yourself a new router, and there are even some great Black Friday deals you can take advantage of that will save you a little bit of extra cash. We've collected some of our favorite deals on routers below, but be sure to check back regularly as we update with newer and better deals.
Best Router Black Friday Deals Routers are a great option if you don't have a large home or need to cover a lot of square footage, and putting them near you means that you get much better speeds and lower latency when connecting through Wi-Fi. Of course, that may not always be an option, so it's important to know what sort of capacity and speeds routers can do. Most routers will have an "AX" followed by a set of numbers that dictates the maximum speed it can reach, and the rule of thumb is generally that this maximum speed only applies when you're really close to the router, so the further out you go, the less speed you'll get. It's not perfect, but generally more powerful routers that can hit higher speeds will be able to connect at higher speeds further away, although its always best to check the actual real-world performance of a router before taking the plunge.
Computing If you're planning to get a new gaming laptop or other gaming accessories, you should check out the Black Friday deals on Razer products. It's one of the most popular brands among gamers because of its high-performance and stylish devices, and for the shopping holiday, you can get them with huge discounts. You're going to have to hurry with your chosen purchases once you've decided what to buy though, because stocks for some of these bargains may already be running low. If you're not set on Razer, be sure to shop the rest of Black Friday laptop deals and Black Friday gaming laptop deals to compare prices.
Best Razer gaming laptop Black Friday deals Computing Gamers who don't want this year's Black Friday deals to end without buying a powerful gaming laptop for much cheaper than usual should check out the offers that were launched by Razer. One of the most popular gaming brands, it doesn't disappoint with its high-performance and stylish machines. We've rounded up our top picks for Razer gaming laptop Black Friday deals below, including our absolute favorite, so don't waste any more time -- find the model that you want and proceed with the purchase, while the discounts are still online. If gaming isn't your sole focus, you'll find other powerful laptops in our list of the best Black Friday laptop deals.
Best Razer gaming laptop Black Friday deal The top-of-the-line performance provided by the Razer Blade 15 actually makes it a steal at its discounted price, as it's the only machine that you'll need for the next few years if you're looking forward to some upcoming PC games. Inside the gaming laptop are the 12th-generation Intel Core i7 processor, Nvidia GeForce RTX 3070 Ti graphics card, and 16GB of RAM, which are enough to run today's most popular titles at the highest settings. Its 15.6-inch screen with QHD resolution and a 240Hz refresh rate will give justice to all that power, and you'll be able to install several AAA games on its 1TB SSD that ships with Windows 11 Home. Originally $3,000, the Razer Blade 15 is down to $1,800 following a $1,200 discount from Razer for Black Friday.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
