Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Products The best laptops for videoconferencing By Mark Coppock Close Whether it’s via Zoom, Microsoft Skype, Microsoft Teams, or some other solution, the ability to work with colleagues and teams virtually yet face-to-face has never been so important. Unfortunately, the built-in webcams in most laptops aren’t good. Most use old-school 720p cameras that aren’t well-suited for videoconferencing.
Google Pixelbook Go Microsoft Surface Pro 7 MSI GE76 Raider Lenovo ThinkPad X13 Gen 2 Lenovo ThinkPad T14s There are some rare exceptions, of course. The following options all have 1080p webcams that produce a sharper and more balanced image. In lieu of buying an external webcam , these are the best laptops you can buy for videoconferencing.
Google Pixelbook Go Riley Young / Digital Trends It should be no surprise that the best Chromebook makes our list. It’s an incredibly well-built laptop with excellent Chrome OS performance and a lovely 13-inch display. And yes, its webcam supports 1080p and provides a quality image that makes videoconferencing a highly portable and pleasant process.
Best Black Friday laptop deals: Get a new workhorse from $129 The best Lenovo laptops for 2023: ThinkPad, Yoga, and more Best Chromebook deals: Cheap laptops starting at $180 You won’t find many Windows 10 laptops that can match the Google PixelBook Go at its price of $649. The keyboard and touchpad are excellent, it’s a great-looking laptop, and Chrome OS is lightweight enough that it rarely gets bogged down. You’ll need to find the right app to run your favorite videoconferencing tool — likely either a web version or an Android app — but you’ll find the usual Zoom, Skype, and Microsoft Teams support.
Microsoft Surface Pro 7 Image used with permission by copyright holder The Microsoft Surface Pro 7 is the best detachable tablet 2-in-1 on the market, making our list of the best laptops you can buy. It’s slim, lightweight, and works well as both a tablet and a clamshell laptop facsimile thanks to its snap-on keyboard. The front-facing 1080p webcam makes it an ideal videoconferencing machine, while the rear-facing 1080p camera lets you show off more of the world if you’re so inclined.
As a tablet, it enjoys some of the best active pen support around, and it has a 3:2 aspect ratio display that makes it roughly the same shape and size as an 8.5 by 11-inch piece of paper. Its performance is in line with other 10th-gen laptops , and it gets enough battery life to last through a typical working day.
MSI GE76 Raider Image used with permission by copyright holder The other laptops on this list are consumer- or business-oriented machines with an emphasis on portability. But that doesn’t meet everyone’s needs — some of you might be gamers and you want a laptop that can keep up with modern titles while still offering great videoconferencing capabilities.
Enter the MSI GE76 Raider.
 It’s a full-on gaming laptop with all of the usual gaming features — fast CPU, high-end GPU, fast refresh rates, RGB lighting, etc. — but it also sports a 1080p webcam. That means you can engage your colleagues — or gaming teammates — with high-quality video without sacrificing your gaming experience. So, go ahead and configure a Core i9 and NVIDIA RTX 3080, and don’t let your videoconferencing requirements hold you back.
Lenovo ThinkPad X13 Gen 2 Image used with permission by copyright holder The newly revamped (and coming soon) Lenovo ThinkPad X13 Gen 2 is one of the smallest ThinkPads you can buy. It offers the usual rugged ThinkPad build and the same sleek look and feel, only in a smaller package and a lighter color scheme. The latest version offers a 16:10 aspect ratio display that’s taller and offers a more modern look than the older model.
Inside, you’ll find 11th-gen Intel Tiger Lake CPUs and faster Intel Iris Xe graphics to match the usual excellent Thinkpad keyboard, touchpad, and TrackPoint input devices. And yes, of course, the 1080p webcam will offer the resolution you demand for high-quality videoconferencing.
Lenovo ThinkPad T14s Lenovo The ThinkPad T-series is the line’s workhorse machines, usually not quite as thin and light as other ThinkPads but built just as well and offering a more affordable entry into the family. The ThinkPad T14s is the standout among the group, with the “s” standing for “slim,” and it’s definitely thinner and lighter than the other T-series models.
Like the ThinkPad X13, the T14s offers optional 5G support and a fingerprint sensor built into the power button. It also sports the latest Tiger Lake CPU and faster Intel integrated graphics, but there’s also an AMD Ryzen 5000 option that should provide superior CPU performance. Also, like the ThinkPad X13, the T14s enjoys a 1080p webcam that will let you show off your best side while videoconferencing with colleagues.
How to choose a laptop for videoconferencing As should already be obvious, the most important videoconferencing-specific criteria in a laptop is the quality of the webcam. Picking one with a 1080p resolution is likely to give you the best image, not only in terms of resolution but likely with better optics as well. Beyond that initial question, you’ll want to choose a laptop that will conform to the rest of your needs. Do you need Windows 10 or is Chrome OS your choice? Is portability a concern, not only in terms of size but also battery life? Those sorts of attributes should also go into your decision.
Videoconferencing isn’t a computing-intense process, and so you don’t need to worry so much about the CPU and GPU. Those sorts of decisions should be drive by your other uses for the machine, such as whether you’ll need to perform intense creative tasks like video editing.
Editors' Recommendations Best Black Friday gaming laptop deals: Cheapest prices today Don’t wait for new GPUs. It’s safe to buy a gaming laptop now The best budget laptops for 2023 Best 17-inch laptop deals: Big savings on big screens Best HP laptop deals: Get a Windows laptop for $199 Business Laptops Computing While some of the best laptops are designed to cater to different types of users and purposes, you're going to need a gaming laptop if you want to play the best PC games. That's because these machines are designed to meet the strict requirements of gamers, which also makes them a bit more expensive. Fortunately, there's no shortage of gaming laptop deals online, and to help you make your choice, we've rounded up some of the top offers right here. Whether you're on a tight budget or you're aiming for a powerful machine, there's something here for everyone.
HP Victus 15 (Intel) -- $550, was $900 The HP Victus 15 is one of the cheapest gaming laptops in the market, but it still provides decent performance with the latest 13th-generation Intel Core i5 processor, Nvidia GeForce RTX 3050 graphics card, and 8GB of RAM. With these specifications, you can play today's most popular games, but you'll have to go with low to medium graphic settings for the more demanding titles. The gaming laptop is also equipped with a 15.6-inch Full HD screen with a 144Hz refresh rate, and a 512GB SSD with Windows 11 Home pre-loaded.
Computing To earn the crown as the best laptop in 2023, it needs to have it all: gorgeous design, killer performance, a productive keyboard, long-lasting battery life, and much more.
Each of the laptops below has been vetted thoroughly by us here at Digital Trends. Whether it's an affordable Chromebook or a top-of-the-line gaming laptop, they've all been subjected to real-world testing, as well as benchmark and battery tests, to collect data to objectively pit them against each other.
Computing Dell's Alienware brand is one of the most trusted names in the gaming industry, so it should be one of your top options if you're looking for gaming laptop deals or gaming PC deals. The stylish designs and powerful performance don't come cheap though, so you're going to want to take advantage of Alienware deals so that you can enjoy some savings with your purchase. We've rounded up our favorite offers here to help you pick your next gaming machine, but you need to hurry with your decision on what to buy because some of these discounts won't last long.
Alienware Aurora R15 gaming desktop (RTX 4060) -- $1,300, was $1,600 The Alienware Aurora R15 gaming desktop is powered by the latest 13th-generation Intel Core i7 processor, the Nvidia GeForce RTX 4060 graphics card, and 16GB of RAM, which are enough to play the best PC games without any issues. The gaming PC also comes with Windows 11 Home pre-loaded, so you can start installing your favorite titles on its 512GB SSD as soon as you set it up.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
