Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best laptops for writers By Mark Coppock Close Writers tend to be incredibly particular about one thing on their laptops: the keyboard. That makes sense. We spend hours and hours typing, and even on the best keyboard, that can be a fatiguing process. An uncomfortable keyboard not only slows us down, but it’s a miserable experience to boot.
Apple MacBook Air M1 HP Spectre X360 14 Dell XPS 13 HP Elite C1030 Chromebook Lenovo ThinkPad x12 Detachable Acer Swift 3 HP Elite Dragonfly Max It’s not that we don’t care about performance, display quality (especially contrast, meaning black text on white backgrounds), and other laptop characteristics, but the keyboard is the one component that affects us the most. That’s why we’ve put together this list of the best laptops for writers across several categories. Many of them show up in a variety of our best-of lists, including best laptops , best 2-in-1s , best Chromebooks , and more. Depending on your needs, one of these laptops is bound to give you, the writer, the keyboard you’ve been looking for.
The best laptop for writers at a glance: Apple MacBook Air HP Spectre x360 14 Dell XPS 13 HP Elite C1030 Chromebook Lenovo ThinkPad X12 Detachable Acer Swift 3 HP Elite Dragonfly Max Apple MacBook Air M1 Mark Coppock/Digital Trends / Digital Trends Why you should buy this : The MacBook Air is the best overall laptop for writers you can buy.
Who it’s for : Anyone who wants to type at full speed with minimal fatigue and doesn’t need Windows 10 .
Why we picked the Apple MacBook Air : Once upon a time — and quite recently, in fact — Apple used its butterfly keyboard in its MacBook line. This keyboard had almost zero travel and a very abrupt bottoming action, creating an experience that many fast typists found exhausting. Some writers described it as feeling like typing on a block of wood.
All that changed with Apple’s most recent MacBooks, which now use the company’s new Magic Keyboard. This version employs more traditional scissor switches and adds a bit of travel — not a lot at 1mm, but more than before — and a crisp, precise, and responsive feel that no other laptop keyboard can duplicate. The keys respond immediately to every press and they bounce back quickly, making the Magic Keyboard pretty close to perfect for the fastest typists. Perhaps most important, the key feel is consistent across the entire keyboard with great spacing, and there’s no wobble or other sensations that might contribute to fatigue. Of course, the keyboard uses the typical MacBook layout with no surprises.
There are other reasons to buy a MacBook, including beautiful (and high-contrast) displays and the powerful new Apple M1 CPU. But the keyboard is the one that will make writers the happiest. We’ll highlight the Apple MacBook Air M1 here because if you’re mostly writing copy, then you don’t need the most power, but you’ll certainly appreciate the portability and price.
Read our in-depth Apple MacBook Air M1 review HP Spectre X360 14 Mark Coppock/Digital Trends Why you should buy this : The HP Spectre line has the best keyboard you’ll find in convertible 2-in-1s, and the Spectre x360 14 offers writers what they want most.
Who it’s for : Anyone who wants the flexibility of a 2-in-1 but doesn’t want to give up an awesome keyboard.
Why we picked the HP Spectre x360 14 : HP’s Spectre convertible 2-in-1 lineup has shared the same excellent keyboard for several generations now. There’s plenty of travel but not too much, and the switches provide a nice click with a bouncy bottoming action that all adds up to a very precise feel. There’s just the right amount of pressure required to depress a key — not too much, not too little — and so this is a keyboard you can type on for hours without getting tired.
The keyboard has a few additional features in the latest iterations, including buttons to turn off the microphone and slide a physical cover over the webcam, and the power button is now on the top row almost to the very right. You’ll find a row of Home, PgUp, PgDn, and End along the right-hand side, which is convenient once you get used to it, and HP manages to maintain perfect spacing and just the right key sizes. One negative on the newest models is the fingerprint reader that takes the place of the right control key — that can be a problem in apps that hard-code that button.
Perhaps the best version currently available is the Spectre x360 14.
 It offers a beautiful OLED display with otherworldly contrast and colors, and its display is in the 3:2 aspect ratio that’s great for viewing long documents. Writers will love this machine.
Read our in-depth HP Spectre x360 14 review Dell XPS 13 Mark Coppock/Digital Trends Why you should buy this : Dell’s XPS line of laptops has the best keyboard available in a Windows 10 clamshell machine and the XPS 13 is the writer’s best choice.
Who it’s for : Anyone who needs Windows 10 and prefers a traditional laptop form factor.
Why we picked the Dell XPS 13 : Talk to 10 writers, and half would pick the HP Spectre keyboard and half would pick the version on the latest Dell XPS clamshell laptops. It’s close to a tossup in the Windows 10 world as to which keyboard is better. Dell’s has a little less travel than the Spectre, but it’s more than enough and its switches are just as bouncy and precise. Probably, the Dell XPS keyboard has a bit of a lighter feel, which over many, many hours of typing might be a little less fatiguing.
The keyboard also has spacious keycaps and great key spacing, filling the entire keyboard deck and eschewing any additional keys along the side. It’s a very traditional layout that works well. There’s little to dislike about this keyboard, and a lot to love.
The Dell XPS 13 is likely the best laptops for writers, with a 16:10 display that’s a bit taller and better for documents and web pages. The display also enjoys great contrast, making blacks pop on white backgrounds. And, the XPS 13 is arguably the best 13-inch laptop you can buy, so you simply can’t go wrong.
Read our in-depth Dell XPS 13 review HP Elite C1030 Chromebook Mark Coppock/Digital Trends Why you should buy this : It’s the best keyboard you’ll find in a Chromebook.
Who it’s for : Anyone who needs a Chromebook but you don’t want a cheap, uncomfortable keyboard.
Why we picked the HP Elite C1030 Chromebook : Chromebooks are often inexpensive laptops that cut some corners, including in the keyboard that’s installed. That’s not the Elite C1030 Chromebook, which pulls over the same keyboard from HP’s commercial Windows 10 Elite line and which we love. Like the Spectre keyboards, it has excellent travel and an even more uniform build that ensures every key feels the same. And that’s a great feeling — the switches are sharp and responsive, with a springy bottoming action that ensures a precise response. The keyboard utilizes the usual Chromebook layout and so, like with Apple’s Magic Keyboard, there are no surprises.
The Elite C1030 Chromebook is also a great machine in other ways. It’s incredibly well built, offers a high-quality display with plenty of contrast, and is a top performer. It’s not inexpensive, though. But if you’re a writer who needs a Chromebook, you’ll find the investment to be well worth it.
Read our in-depth HP Elite C1030 Chromebook review Lenovo ThinkPad x12 Detachable Mark Coppock/Digital Trends Why you should buy this : It’s the best detachable keyboard that you can connect to a Windows 10 tablet.
Who it’s for : Anyone who wants a tablet with a detachable keyboard but doesn’t want something flimsy or wobbly.
Why we picked the Lenovo ThinkPad X12 Detachable : Detachable tablets are an interesting breed. They’re trying to straddle the fence between being easy to use as traditional tablets and functional as a laptop. The Lenovo ThinkPad X12 Detachable does a commendable job at both, being a very nice Windows 10 tablet with great pen support and a display with a 3:2 aspect and good contrast.
More important, though, it has a detachable keyboard the leverages the usual ThinkPad keyboard excellence with good travel, comfortable keycaps, a familiar layout (except for the inverted Fn and Ctrl keys on the left), and a responsive and precise feel. Even better, and what makes the ThinkPad’s keyboard superior to the also excellent Microsoft Surface Type Cover is that it’s solid with no give when it’s propped up for typing. That’s something that few detachable keyboards can boast.
The ThinkPad X12 Detachable is one of the best you can buy in the form factor, and it’s a great choice for writers. And if you like ThinkPads, then you get the typical ThinkPad look and feel to go with it.
Read our in-depth Lenovo ThinkPad X12 Detachable review Acer Swift 3 Image used with permission by copyright holder Why you should buy this : It has one of the best keyboards you’ll find in a budget laptop.
Who it’s for : Anyone who doesn’t have a lot to spend but can’t stomach a bad keyboard.
Why we picked the Acer Swift 3 (2020) : The Acer Swift 3 (2020) is our favorite budget laptop for a number of reasons. First is its excellent performance thanks to an AMD Ryzen CPU — it’s one of the fastest laptops we’ve tested for around $650. Fortunately for writers, it doesn’t suffer from the poor keyboard you’ll find on many budget machines.
The Swift 3’s keyboard has a surprisingly good keyboard, in fact, with good spacing and a comfortable layout and switches that provide better-than-class clickiness and precision. It’s a comfortable keyboard thanks to a good bottoming action, although we should note that the keys are a little small. Overall, you won’t be slowed down by this keyboard, and you won’t be ready to take a break too soon into a writing session.
Buy the Acer Swift 3 (2020) if your budget doesn’t allow for another machine on our list. But know that you won’t be giving up a lot when it comes to the typing experience.
Read our in-depth Acer Swift 3 review HP Elite Dragonfly Max Image used with permission by copyright holder Why you should buy this : It has the best keyboard you can get on a business-class laptop.
Who it’s for : You need business features but don’t want a subpar typing experience.
Why we picked the HP Elite Dragonfly : We loved the first-generation HP Elite Dragonfly , and the company has since provided a couple of updates. First is the Elite Dragonfly G2, which refines the design and upgrades to modern 11th-gen CPUs. Second is the Elite Dragonfly Max, which has everything the G2 offers along with enhanced audio and video for some of the best videoconferencing functionality you’ll find on a laptop.
HP also enhanced the keyboard on the latest generations, taking what was already an excellent version and making it better. The Elite Dragonfly Max enjoys a keyboard that’s perfectly consistent across every key in terms of its switches, which offer tons of travel and a springy bottoming action with exactly the right amount of pressure required to register a keystroke. This is at least on par with the Spectre’s keyboard, with a lighter yet confident feel that makes typing an actually pleasant experience. The keyboard layout is also functional and more traditional than the Spectre’s.
The HP Elite Dragonfly Max is a great business 2-in-1 that any professional would love to see added to its company’s fleet of laptops. If you’re a writer, you’ll buy it for one of the best keyboards you can find on any laptop, period.
Editors' Recommendations Best Black Friday gaming laptop deals: Cheapest prices today Don’t wait for new GPUs. It’s safe to buy a gaming laptop now The best budget laptops for 2023 Best 17-inch laptop deals: Big savings on big screens Best HP laptop deals: Get a Windows laptop for $199 Apple Dell Laptops Computing While some of the best laptops are designed to cater to different types of users and purposes, you're going to need a gaming laptop if you want to play the best PC games. That's because these machines are designed to meet the strict requirements of gamers, which also makes them a bit more expensive. Fortunately, there's no shortage of gaming laptop deals online, and to help you make your choice, we've rounded up some of the top offers right here. Whether you're on a tight budget or you're aiming for a powerful machine, there's something here for everyone.
HP Victus 15 (Intel) -- $550, was $900 The HP Victus 15 is one of the cheapest gaming laptops in the market, but it still provides decent performance with the latest 13th-generation Intel Core i5 processor, Nvidia GeForce RTX 3050 graphics card, and 8GB of RAM. With these specifications, you can play today's most popular games, but you'll have to go with low to medium graphic settings for the more demanding titles. The gaming laptop is also equipped with a 15.6-inch Full HD screen with a 144Hz refresh rate, and a 512GB SSD with Windows 11 Home pre-loaded.
Computing To earn the crown as the best laptop in 2023, it needs to have it all: gorgeous design, killer performance, a productive keyboard, long-lasting battery life, and much more.
Each of the laptops below has been vetted thoroughly by us here at Digital Trends. Whether it's an affordable Chromebook or a top-of-the-line gaming laptop, they've all been subjected to real-world testing, as well as benchmark and battery tests, to collect data to objectively pit them against each other.
Computing Dell's Alienware brand is one of the most trusted names in the gaming industry, so it should be one of your top options if you're looking for gaming laptop deals or gaming PC deals. The stylish designs and powerful performance don't come cheap though, so you're going to want to take advantage of Alienware deals so that you can enjoy some savings with your purchase. We've rounded up our favorite offers here to help you pick your next gaming machine, but you need to hurry with your decision on what to buy because some of these discounts won't last long.
Alienware Aurora R15 gaming desktop (RTX 4060) -- $1,300, was $1,600 The Alienware Aurora R15 gaming desktop is powered by the latest 13th-generation Intel Core i7 processor, the Nvidia GeForce RTX 4060 graphics card, and 16GB of RAM, which are enough to play the best PC games without any issues. The gaming PC also comes with Windows 11 Home pre-loaded, so you can start installing your favorite titles on its 512GB SSD as soon as you set it up.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
