Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Guides How we test laptops By Luke Larsen Close Image used with permission by copyright holder You’ve read our laptop reviews.
 You’ve read our conclusions. And now you’re wondering how we came to them.
The hands-on experience Interface interaction Display and audio impressions The test chamber A lasting impression Hot stuff Reaching a verdict Good question. Reviews often lack context, which is evident in the wildly different scores some laptops receive from different publications. Conflicting opinions can actually make choosing a laptop more difficult if the review’s criteria aren’t made clear.
Allow us to lift the veil. Here we’ll explain the benchmarks we use for objective testing and the perspective from which we approach subjective topics. We don’t expect everyone to agree with our opinions about what the best laptops are, but we hope that sharing our process will leave you better equipped to decide what laptop best fits your needs.
Best Black Friday laptop deals: Get a new workhorse from $129 Best 17-inch laptop deals: Big savings on big screens Best gaming laptop deals: Game on the go from just $550 The hands-on experience You can tell if you like the aesthetic of a laptop just by some photos, which is why we always provide them. You might appreciate the tone of the color, the intricate spacing of elements on the keyboard deck, or even just the visual design of the lid.
But laptops are tactile products. They’re meant to be carried from place to place, and how they feel in your hands or in your backpack, matters quite a bit. These senses of sight and touch allow us to make first judgments about the laptops we receive for review. Different laptops are made of different materials such as plastic and aluminum. While metal is generally considered “premium” compared to plastic, that’s not always the case – a thin piece of metal may feel less sturdy.
We strive to describe both the materials used in a laptop’s construction and how those materials hold up in real-world scenarios. Thickness, weight, and other dimensions apply here too. There’s always a tradeoff, and how manufacturers balance these variables is key.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends During our time with a laptop – usually one or two weeks – our initial impressions are tempered by the passage of time. A finish that was at first beautiful and unique may become annoying if it attracts dirt and fingerprints too easily, and a design that seemed mundane may grow on us through its utility.
Ultimately, hands-on impressions are subjective, no matter how much time we spend with each laptop. However, our experience handling many laptops gives a unique perspective on these products, making it possible to develop informed opinions about where each product we review stands against the competition. At the least, we want our readers to leave a review with a strong idea of how a laptop looks and feels in the real world.
Interface interaction The quality of the keyboard and touchpad is always important, and we devote an entire section to these vital user-interface tools.
We look for keyboards that offer solid key feel. To be more specific, we look for keys with a crisp action that quickly rebound when a finger is removed. Keys should not wobble or skew when pressed along a key’s side instead of the center, and there should be no flex along the width or length of the keyboard when a key is completely depressed.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Touchpads should have a smooth and precise feel that shouldn’t cause your finger to skip or drag across it. Good palm rejection means you shouldn’t get sudden cursor skips either. Whether a touchpad uses a physical button or haptic feedback, we look for touchpads that have quiet and Most of our reviews barely mention touchscreen quality because most implementations provide nearly identical feel. Instead, we spend time talking about related features like a convertible laptop’s hinge or a touchscreen all-in-one’s software.
Display and audio impressions Though the design of a laptop is in the eye of the beholder, the display and audio systems on these products straddle the line between what is subjectively pleasant and what can be objectively measured.
We attempt to incorporate a bit of both into our judgment of these components. Using the laptop naturally reveals the quality of the display, but there are also tests used to provide a measurable impression. We use the Spyder5Elite color calibration tool and its built-in quality measurement suite to test the display’s brightness, contrast, color gamut, color accuracy, and gamma curve. If it’s a HDR-capable screen such as an OLED or mini-LED panel, we make sure to try out HDR content too.
Audio quality is judged by a number of subjective tests. A typical benchmark includes YouTube HD, podcasts, and streaming music. During our tests, we adjust the volume to see how (or if) performance degrades as the speakers become louder.
The test chamber Jacob Roach / Digital Trends / Digital Trends Most of our judgments take place during real-world use. For example, we usually use the laptop being reviewed to actually write the review, meaning the reviews you read on our site are written on the laptop pictured in the review’s photos. When it comes to performance benchmarks, however, each laptop has to spend some time alone, cranking through an array of tests.
Our processor suite includes: GeekBench (single-core and multi-core) Cinebench R23 (single-core and multi-core) PCMark 10 Handbrake (encoding a four-minute, 20 second 4K trailer into H.265) Our hard drive suite includes: CrystalDiskMark Our graphics suite includes: 3DMark Time Spy Fortnite Assassins Creed Valhalla Red Dead Redemption 2 Cyberpunk 2077 We use FRAPS, a well know benchmark program, to take accurate framerate readings. Interpretation of the results matters as much as the numbers themselves.
A lasting impression We use three tests to judge battery life. In all situations, we calibrate the display’s brightness level to 100 lux using a light meter, and also disable any power settings that might dim or turn off the display during testing. We record battery life results using Windows’ built-in battery recording feature.
First, we have our iMacro test. This uses the iMacro extension for Chrome to load several websites in a loop. A pause between each load provides downtime. This better simulates how real users browse the web.
Secondly, we run our video test, which plays a 1080p movie clip on a loop using the built-in media player until the battery dies. This tends to be the least demanding test in our suite.
Hot stuff Heat is always an issue for laptops. Fast processors give off plenty of warmth while operating, but the slim frame of a laptop leaves little room for airflow. The way a notebook deals with the buildup of heat directly impacts usability.
Ideally, a laptop should not warm significantly on either the top or the bottom, but it’s rare that this is the case. We take note of where a product warms as we use it both on a desktop and in our laps and measure hot spots with an infrared thermometer. The results are often referenced in our reviews.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends In addition to this real-world testing, we use stress test programs such as 7-Zip Benchmark and all-core Cinebench test to simulate the maximum possible load that a laptop might encounter. While doing this, we also make note of reported CPU and GPU temperatures to see if they become hot enough to be a potential source of instability.
We also measure fan noise during our temperature tests. We use a decibel meter in an environment where ambient noise does not exceed 38 decibels. Noise is measured during idle, at full CPU load, and at full GPU load.
Reaching a verdict The most difficult part of every review is the verdict. This is where we decide if we’re going to recommend a laptop and determine how the outcome of each section fits together to form a final score.
Verdicts are usually handed down from the perspective of what the laptop is built to accomplish. Poor battery life on a gaming laptop won’t significantly impact the score, but an ultraportable with the same problem could lose several points.
Competition must also be considered. Laptops are becoming better with each passing year as each brand tries to better its peers. Most of today’s laptops offer an experience that is reasonably pleasant, and none fail as computers. But most people need just one laptop, and they want the best available, which is where the little details – such as key feel and fan noise – make a difference.
Value is also important. We don’t expect to see a high-resolution display and discrete GPU in a laptop that ships at $500, and we won’t knock it for lacking those features. A laptop that costs $1,500, however, will lose points if it skimps on hardware.
In the end, it’s not about everyone agreeing with our final verdict. We know that’s impossible. We do hope, however, that in reading our laptop reviews, you understand the logic behind how we arrived at those conclusions — and in theory, that’ll help you decide what the best laptop is for you.
Editors' Recommendations Best Black Friday gaming laptop deals: Cheapest prices today The best Lenovo laptops for 2023: ThinkPad, Yoga, and more Best HP laptop deals: Get a Windows laptop for $199 10 best laptops of 2023: tested and reviewed Best Dell laptop deals: Get the Dell XPS 13 for less than $600 Laptops Computing Is it time to buy a new laptop? Then you've come to the right place, as we've gathered some of the best laptop deals that you can shop for today. We've picked laptops for different budgets and needs, ranging from low-priced devices to high-end machines, including Chromebook deals, gaming laptop deals, and MacBook deals. You're going to have to hurry with your purchase if any of these offers catch your eye, though, because we're not sure how much time you've got left to take advantage of them.
HP Stream 14 -- $199, was $229 The HP stream tells you exactly what it does in the name, which is to give you a budget-friendly device that you can use to stream content or use cloud apps. That means that the specs aren't that powerful, with a budget Intel Celeron N4020 processor, 4GB of RAM, and 64GB of storage. Luckily, you do get a great 14-inch touchscreen monitor for easier navigation, and the overall build is pretty good for a budget device. As for battery life, expect around six hours or so, depending on your usage, so it will be good for a good chunk of the day before recharging.
Computing Using one of the best external GPUs can boost your laptop performance, regardless of if you're trying to gain some frames in Apex Legends or make your Premiere Pro renders a little faster. We've rounded up the top options on the market that can accommodate even the most powerful graphics cards, including the RTX 4090 and RX 7900 XTX.
A good GPU enclosure goes beyond being a box for your graphics card. Our picks come with enough power to feed hungry graphics cards without sacrificing efficiency, and they're cool and quiet, allowing you to game or create without distractions.
Computing One of the best places to buy a laptop online is Best Buy, as it always has some of the best laptop deals available. Best Buy has been a retail staple for electronics for decades, and shopping Best Buy’s online store often turns up laptop deals you won’t find anywhere else. That’s certainly the case right now, as there are a number of laptop deals you won’t want to miss out on taking place at Best Buy. They include laptops by top brands such as Apple, Lenovo, HP, and Asus, among others, and prices on these Best Buy laptop deals start at just $169. We’ve done the heavy lifting of rounding them all up for you, and if you need any additional help you can always refer to our laptop buying guide.
Lenovo Slim 3 Chromebook — $169, was $319 The Lenovo Slim 3 Chromebook is a low cost laptop with surprisingly good user reviews, an attractive look, and a couple of surprises up its sleeve. It's a 14-inch FHD touchscreen computer, runs on Chrome OS, and 4GB of RAM, and 64GB of eMMC flash memory. Surprisingly, for this price, it has a built-in FHD webcam and microphone, WiFi 6 capabilities, and two speakers built into the sides for great stereo sound. This laptop is perfect for browsing the net, writing the next great American novel, or getting lost on YouTube instead of writing the next great American novel. And, as a fun little bonus, it comes with Minecraft free, making it a great first laptop for your kids as well.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
