Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Reviews Lenovo Legion 5 Pro review: The antidote for thin, expensive gaming laptops By Luke Larsen Close $1,850.00 Excellent gaming performance Gorgeous 1440p display Satisfying, accurate keyboard Good cooling Cheap touchpad Thick and chunky Gaming laptops keep getting thinner. Yet, there’s plenty of room in the market for gaming laptops that don’t sacrifice unbridled performance at the altar of portability.
Design Ports Display Performance Battery Keyboard and touchpad Our take The Lenovo Legion 5 Pro is one such gaming laptop.
 Its design is nothing spectacular, nor is the strain you’ll feel when lugging this thing around.
Don’t wait for new GPUs. It’s safe to buy a gaming laptop now Best gaming laptop deals: Game on the go from just $550 The best thin and light gaming laptops 2023 But for a decidedly old-school gaming laptop , the Legion 5 Pro gets the fundamentals right in a way that will make many performance-focused PC gamers very happy. The affordable starting price of $1,700 starting price will put a smile on your face too.
Design Digital Trends The Legion 5 Pro ain’t a looker. The oversized Legion logo on the lid isn’t exactly subtle, and the sleepy storm gray color and keycap font are straight out of Lenovo’s business laptop designs. Throw in the ThinkPad-like keyboard and the black vent pieces that seem glued on, and it’s a bit of a Frankenstein design.
I don’t have a problem with a stealthy gaming laptop that hides its gaming roots — like the Predator Triton 500 SE , or even the Razer Blade 15.
 But the Legion 5 Pro seems torn between both identities. Even its name seems a bit confusing, as it’s both in the Legion gaming line but also a “Pro” laptop. It’s less a blend and more a mishmash.
The design does have its strengths. The superthin bezels around the screen, for example, look amazing. Even the bottom bezel is relatively small, making for a modern design that puts the screen at the forefront. For that, you can thank the 16:10 aspect ratio, which is a new trend in gaming laptops.
 Extra vertical screen real estate might seem unnecessary while gaming, but it sure comes in handy when you want to get some work done. Again, because the Legion 5 Pro toes the line, 16:10 makes a lot of sense.
The screen is also larger than your average 15-inch gaming laptop , measuring at 16 inches diagonally. That matches the Predator Triton 500 SE, but it’s still an uncommon screen size for gaming laptops.
 But again, thanks to its small bezels, it doesn’t add any extra size to the overall footprint.
And that’s important, because the Legion 5 Pro is not small by any standard. It weighs 5.4 pounds and is 1.1 inches thick — chunkier than your average 15-inch laptop and most of the higher-end gaming laptops out there. As we’ll see later, that extra size makes for great thermal performance, especially when compared to the Razer Blade 15, MSI GS66 Stealth , or even the Alienware m15 R4.
Ports Image used with permission by copyright holder The Legion 5 Pro features an increasingly popular option for port placement: The rear side of the device. This makes the laptop’s footprint even larger, but it does a good job of keeping messy cables out of your way.
In back, you’ll find HDMI 2.1 , RJ-45 Ethernet, a power jack, three USB-A 3.2 Gen 2 ports, and one USB-C port that supports both USB 3.2 Gen 2 and DisplayPort 1.4.
That leaves only ports you’ll really need quick access to on the sides. On the left, you’ll find a headphone jack and another USB-C. There’s a single USB-A port on the right side.
As for connectivity, the Legion 5 Pro supports Wi-Fi 6 and Bluetooth 5.1.
Display Image used with permission by copyright holder The Legion 5 Pro includes an excellent screen, both for gaming and for standard work. It’s native resolution is 2560 x 1600 to support the 16:10 aspect ratio, and can be downscaled to 1920 x 1200 for lower-resolution gaming.
According to my colorimeter, the Legion 5 Pro has one of the best displays I’ve ever tested on a gaming laptop.
 First off, it’s inordinately bright, maxing out at 550 nits of brightness. That’s even brighter than the most recent MacBook Pro or Razer Blade 15. It’s also a decently color-accurate panel, hitting 77% of the AdobeRGB color space.
The Legion 5 Pro has one of the best displays I’ve ever tested on a gaming laptop.
It’s rare to see a screen this bright, vibrant, and well-calibrated on a gaming laptop.
 Again, like the Predator Triton 500 SE, the Legion 5 Pro features that great image quality alongside a quick refresh rate, though 165Hz isn’t as high as the 360Hz panels you can get in 1080p gaming laptops.
 But let’s be honest — unless you’re a professional esports gamer, you probably wouldn’t notice the difference while playing anyways. Gameplay feels plenty responsive and fast, especially since you’ll be doing most of your gaming in the native resolution.
The boost in resolution is worth the trade-off, especially on a screen this large. Pixels disappear thanks to how sharp it is, which matches what you get on the MacBook Pro. And thanks to the performance, you’ll find yourself using the full range of 165Hz even at native resolution.
Performance As I’ve mentioned, the Legion 5 Pro is a chunky gaming laptop , and that affords it some better cooling. The result is pretty astounding gaming performance.
My configuration came with the AMD Ryzen 7 5800H, Nvidia RTX 3070, 16GB of RAM , and two 1TB PCIe SSDs. Lenovo also offers an identical configuration, except with the RTX 3060. You’ll save $150 there, but the RTX 3070 option should offer a noticeable increase in frame rates. It’s not currently available, but Lenovo also reportedly offers a confusing midtier model with just 1TB of storage but 32GB of RAM.
 Most gamers will want to opt for more storage and less memory.
Laptop 3DMark Time Spy 3DMark Fire Strike Assassin’s Creed Valhalla (1080p Ultra High) Battlefield V (1080p Ultra) Fortnite (1080p Epic) Civilization VI (1080p Ultra) Lenovo Legion 5 Pro (RTX 3070) 9175 21033 61 fps 73 fps 101 fps 114 fps Asus ROG Strix G15 (RX 6800M) 10504 26800 77 fps 109 fps 108 fps 150 fps MSI GS66 Stealth (RTX 3080) 9097 19175 70 fps 117 fps 140 fps 149 fps Razer Blade 15 (RTX 2080 Super) 7637 16895 58 fps 98 fps 110 fps 134 fps I included the benchmarks in 1080p in the chart above to level the playing field between these different laptops , which include both 1080p and 1440p resolutions. The Legion 5 Pro handles all games at over 60 frames per second (fps), including the tough Assassin’s Creed Valhalla.
 As for lighter esports fare, the Legion 5 Pro landed an average of over 100 fps in Fortnite, with room to use the full range of 165Hz in lower settings.
At native resolution, which is how many people will likely use the Legion 5 Pro, you’ll still get 60-plus fps in most games.
Battlefield V was right on the line at 60 fps, while Fortnite played fantastically at 83 fps. The system slowed down to 52 fps at 2560 x 1600 in Valhalla , so you’ll likely want to stick to lower resolutions for heavier titles like that.
The Legion 5 Pro is a great value for the performance offered.
Though the Legion 5 Pro with RTX 3070 consistently beat the MSI GS66 Stealth with RTX 3080 (and 1440p screen) in 3DMark runs, the MSI machine was decidedly ahead in every actual game I tested. Of course, newer configurations of the GS66 Stealth aren’t widely available right now — and if they are, they’ll be quite a bit more expensive. The same is true of the Razer Blade 15, which will easily cost you at least $1,000 more.
All of that sets up the Legion 5 Pro to be a great value for the performance offered. The one problem is the Asus ROG Strix G15 , which offers a base configuration at a similar $1,650. It’s a more powerful laptop, no doubt about it. It’s a strength of AMD’s new Radeon RX 6800M graphics card , which beats the RTX 3070 in every case and challenges the RTX 3080 in some. The performance of the ROG Strix G15 is undeniable. I prefer the design and screen of the Lenovo Legion 5 Pro, but it’s hard to beat the ROG Strix G15 purely on value.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Throughout my testing, the Legion 5 Pro proved to be a well-cooled device. GPU temperatures never rose over 86 degrees Celsius, while CPU temperatures were even cooler. Surface temperatures did get warm at times, but never quite as hot as slimmer laptops like the MSI GS66 Stealth or Razer Blade 15.
All configurations of the Legion 5 Pro feature the AMD Ryzen 7 5800H. It’s a powerful, 45-watt chip with eight cores and 16 threads. That gives you improved CPU performance over the 35-watt processors found in something like the ROG Zephyrus G14.
 The Legion 5 Pro had a particularly impressive single-core score of 1430 in Cinebench R23. It scores quite a bit higher than Intel-powered laptops like the MSI GS66 Stealth as well.
I also tested CPU-based video encoding in HandBrake, and the Ryzen 7 was an absolute speedster. The GS66 Stealth, by comparison, was 24% slower in the same test. That ensures that the Legion 5 Pro is as good a machine for content creation and heavier CPU-based workloads as it is in gaming.
Still, it’s not quite as fast as the Ryzen 9 5900HX that you’ll find in the ROG Strix G15 or ROG Zephyrus G15.
Battery The Lenovo Legion 5 Pro doesn’t get great battery life. Other gaming laptops have made advances in this realm, such as the Asus ROG Zephyrus G14, but the combination of the RTX 3070 and the G-Sync panel are a recipe for frequent use of the charging port. The 80 watt-hour battery isn’t quite as large as some of the 99-watt hour ones you’ll find in more premium gaming laptops.
Still, battery life isn’t nearly as bad as a laptop like this would have been in years past, which is likely thanks to the efficient Ryzen processor inside. Just over seven hours in light web browsing isn’t awful. The second you boot up the discrete GPU, though, you’ll see that drop pretty fast. Then again, you probably shouldn’t be gaming without being plugged in anyway.
I should also mention the massive 300-watt power brick that ships with this thing. It’s a tank, and adds some heft in the backpack if you plan on traveling with the Legion 5 Pro.
Keyboard and touchpad Image used with permission by copyright holder The Legion 5 Pro uses a precise, ThinkPad-esque keyboard. It’s an odd look for the keycaps on a gaming laptop , but it makes for one of the best typing experiences you’ll find. The 1.5mm of key travel is luxurious, and the layout is perfect. The backlighting is fairly limited, with just four zones of customization (including the numpad) and an underwhelming software experience using Lenovo Vantage. The joy of the typing experience more than makes up for the lack of fancy backlighting.
That made the quality of the touchpad even more of a disappointment. It’s the kind of quality you’d find on a $400 Chromebook , not a powerful gaming laptop.
 It’s a large touchpad, which I appreciate. But the surface isn’t very smooth, meaning click-and-drag, pinch-to-zoom, or other gestures that require precise tracking can skip or feel clumsy. It’s frustrating, especially on a laptop that gets so many things right.
Above the screen, you’ll find a 720p webcam, which I’m happy Lenovo included. It’s still being left out of Asus’ ROG gaming laptops to enable a thinner top bezel. The laptop doesn’t include any security features, however, lacking both a Windows Hello IR camera and fingerprint reader. These have become more common even in midrange gaming laptops lately, so it’s a bummer to see Lenovo force you to rely on passwords and PINs for logging in.
Our take The Lenovo Legion 5 Pro is the real deal. If you’re done with gaming laptops that try to be too thin at the expense of proper cooling and performance, the Lenovo Legion 5 Pro is the one you’ve been waiting for.
Are there any alternatives? Most gaming laptops at this price can’t compare with what the Legion 5 Pro offers. The Predator Triton 500 SE matches the screen size, but is limited to just an RTX 3060.
The two biggest competitors to the Legion 5 Pro are from Asus. The all-AMD ROG Strix G15 is the ultimate value gaming laptop , while the ROG Zephyrus G15 matches the Legion 5 Pro in nearly ever spec for the same price. It doesn’t have as good of screen, but the Zephyrus G15 has a sleeker design and options for up to an RTX 3080.
How long will it last? The Lenovo Legion 5 Pro should last you at least five years. It’s a capable gaming laptop that should be able to handle the latest AAA games for many years.
Should you buy it? Yes. The Lenovo Legion 5 Pro isn’t the sleekest gaming laptop in the world, but its performance and display more than make up for the difference.
Editors' Recommendations Best Black Friday gaming laptop deals: Cheapest prices today The best Lenovo laptops for 2023: ThinkPad, Yoga, and more Best Lenovo laptop deals: Get a new workhorse for $130 Best laptop deals: Save on HP, Lenovo, Dell and Apple Trump’s lawyer brought a gaming laptop to $250M fraud trial Laptop Reviews Laptops Lenovo Product Reviews Computing MSI makes some of the best high-end gaming laptops on the market. Their Bravo and Delta line are great for gamers on a budget, while the impressive Stealth line is here for people looking for a powerhouse mobile gaming system. Thankfully everything from the budget laptops to the professional rigs is on sale right now, so you can save hundreds on a prebuilt gaming laptop with impressive specs. Our picks for the best MSI gaming laptop deals are below.
MSI Bravo 15 -- $800, was $1,000 The MSI Bravo is a good starting place if you're just getting into the world of PC gaming. It has quality components, but nothing too flashy or expensive. It's compact at just 15.6-inches, but the screen still has a 144Hz refresh rate and 1080p resolution. The main money saver is in the AMD Ryzen 5 processor. The graphics card is an impressive Nvidia GeForce RTX 4050, which is where most of the budget goes. It skimps a bit on memory, with a standard 16GB of RAM but only 512GB of storage on its SSD.
Computing You can find Nvidia's RTX 40-series graphics cards in some of the best gaming laptops, but the downside is that they're all expensive, if not overpriced. Previously, that meant you'd be forced to choose between getting something affordable or getting access to Nvidia's GPU cheat code -- DLSS 3. Now, there's finally some hope on the horizon, as Acer is launching a budget-friendly laptop that can still run modern games. We're talking about the Acer Nitro V 15.
The new laptop will be available in a few different configurations, each equipped with Intel's latest 13th-Gen CPUs, including either Core i5 or Core i7 models. All of them also come with a 15.6-inch 144Hz display. While every configuration also features a Nvidia graphics card, not all of those GPUs are equally thrilling. The cheapest model, priced at $700, features a Core i5-13420H CPU and an RTX 2050 GPU. This comes paired with just 8GB of RAM and a 512GB SSD.
Computing The Surface Laptop Go 3 is Microsoft's new affordable Surface laptop, with upgraded hardware and long battery life making it a compelling option for budget laptop buyers in 2023. But for anyone considering an upgrade to a Surface device at around that $800 price, the Surface Pro 7+ still presents an attractive purchase, and it can flip into a tablet when you need it.
That brings to mind the age-old question, of whether newer is automatically better. In this case, it might not be. Let's take a look at the Surface Laptop Go 3 versus Surface Pro 7+, to find out.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
