Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Features Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The only gaming laptops you should consider for college By Jacob Roach Close The laptop market is a bit strange right now, which is particularly problematic if you’re going back to school. We’ve seen some of the best gaming laptops ever this year, but many solid laptops for going back to school haven’t been updated to the latest generation yet, making it hard to settle on one machine.
The high roller: Razer Blade 14 The all-arounder: Lenovo Legion Pro 5 The budget champ: Dell G15 We’ve reviewed dozens of laptops in 2023, and there are only a select few that meet the balance of price, performance, and portability that students demand. If you’re going back to school, these are the only three laptops you should even consider.
The high roller: Razer Blade 14 Jacob Roach / Digital Trends College students aren’t exactly known for having a lot of disposable income, but if you’re fortunate enough to have some extra cash to throw around, it’s worth spending on the Razer Blade 14. As you can read in our Razer Blade 14 review , it’s a little more expensive than last year’s model, but it comes with updated specs to justify its higher price.
I fell in love with this adorable mini gaming PC Whatever you do, don’t buy an Nvidia GPU right now Don’t believe the hype — the era of native resolution gaming isn’t over It’s almost the perfect gaming laptop for college, and if it wasn’t for the $2,400 list price (yikes), it would be perfect. First, the machine debuts AMD’s Ryzen AI in the CPU, which enables webcam effects like background blur and and eye contact during video calls with much higher quality than we typically see. The CPU itself is also a decent performer, though it really shines due to its efficiency. After tuning the machine in Razer Synapse, you can easily get over eight hours of battery life out of the Ryzen 9 7940HS and RTX 4070 inside the laptop.
And on battery life, another huge plus for the Razer Blade 14 is USB-C charging. You should use the 230-watt AC adapter for the fastest charge and best performance, but the Blade 14 supports up to 100W of charging over the USB-C port, allowing you to quickly top off with a small wall adapter between classes.
All of the previous perks of the Razer Blade 14 still apply here, too — the keyboard is one of the best you can find on a laptop, performance is competitive across the board, and the 240Hz display is gorgeous. Most college students won’t be able to afford a machine like the Razer Blade 14, but if you can, it’s worth the price.
The all-arounder: Lenovo Legion Pro 5 Jacob Roach / Digital Trends You can get all of the performance of the Razer Blade 14 for half the price with the Lenovo Legion Pro 5. Starting at around $1,100, it’s a crazy deal assuming you don’t mind a larger laptop that’s a little heavier in your backpack.
The Lenovo Legion Pro 5 delivers over eight hours of battery life away from the charger, and it supports USB-C charging so you don’t need to carry the 230W AC adapter around. The keyboard is also excellent, which is a surprising plus for a laptop that’s focused on providing a good value.
What really stands out is the performance, though. Consistently, Lenovo’s laptops punch above the hardware inside of them, and the Legion Pro 5 is no different. At its native resolution of 2,560 x 1,600, it delivers above 60 frames per second (fps) in games like Red Dead Redemption 2 and Returnal when configured with an RTX 4070.
You don’t save over $1,000 without cutting a few corners, though. For as impressive as the Lenovo Legion Pro 5 is, it’s a little heavy at over 5 pounds, and it’s a bit thick at 0.86 inches. The display isn’t the best, either, with decent color and accuracy, but poor brightness. The screen comes with a 165Hz refresh rate, though, so it’s still solid for gaming.
The budget champ: Dell G15 Jacob Roach / Digital Trends If you’re shopping for a new gaming laptop, the absolute floor of prices is around $800. There are a handful of options around that price, but I’d recommend Dell’s new G15 above any other. It doesn’t come with extras like USB-C charging, it’s thick and heavy, and the screen isn’t the best, but it still offers great battery life and solid performance for a bargain bin price.
Starting at $800, you’re getting an Intel Core i5-1350HX and an Nvidia RTX 3050. Those are solid specs for the price, though unfortunately, you have to settlr for a single stick of 8GB of DDR5 memory and a 256GB SSD. You’re not going to be pushing ray tracing in Cyberpunk 2077 with this configuration, but the G15 can still hold up in games like Rainbow Six Siege, Fortnite, and DOTA 2 without breaking a sweat.
What the Dell G15 really gets right is build quality. The all-plastic construction can’t hold up to aluminum laptops, but it has minimal keyboard and screen flex, as well as a comfortable matte finish on all surfaces. The keyboard is also much better than its price would suggest, and it’s complemented by a thin number pad.
For most people, though, I would recommend looking at a machine like the Lenovo Legion Pro 5, especially if you can find an open box or refurbished model. The G15 only makes sense at its base, budget-focused configuration, but it’s much more expensive if you step up the specs, and there are better options available for cheaper in that case.
Editors' Recommendations This is the best Dell gaming laptop you can buy Don’t wait for new GPUs. It’s safe to buy a gaming laptop now 5 things you should never do with your gaming laptop This is the best Alienware gaming laptop you can buy Alan Wake 2 is proof that more PC games need a potato mode Features Laptops PC Gaming Computing I've been strictly against buying a case for my Steam Deck since I first picked up the handheld. If you haven't held one, they're comically big. Every time I've given someone my Steam Deck to check out, they have the same reaction: a chuckle, followed by "that's bigger than I expected." Why would you want to make it even bigger with a case? That is, until I found a case that works perfectly for my Steam Deck: Dbrand's Killswitch. Not only does it protect your Steam Deck thanks to a rugged exterior, but it provides several other features that make the Steam Deck much more useful for traveling, docking, and handheld play.
Computing I've used most of the handheld gaming PCs that have released this year, but I always go back to my Steam Deck. It's not the most powerful, it has some quirks, and I still struggle with a frustrating bug that can drain the battery in minutes. But it's still the best handheld gaming PC you can buy, and that's due in large part to the fact that it doesn't run on Windows like other handhelds.
It's not that I don't like Windows. As a PC hardware nerd, I'm well aware of both the benefits and idiosyncrasies of PC gaming. Things don't always work the way you expect them to, and that's just part of the process to get the best gaming experience possible. When it comes to this evolving form factor of handheld gaming PCs, however, those issues are amplified and pushed to their breaking point.
We've been here before Computing AMD hasn't done much with its laptop GPUs this generation, but that's changing. The company revealed the new Radeon RX 7900M, which is a mobile GPU that's squarely targeting the performance of Nvidia's RTX 4080.
Although AMD announced laptop GPUs at the beginning of the year, we haven't seen them in very many laptops. It appears that's changing. The RX 7900M is arriving first in the Alienware m18 laptop alongside AMD's Ryzen 9 7945HX processor. AMD hasn't said if we'll see more laptops with the GPU yet, but it looks like we should only expect it high-end, desktop replacement-class machines.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
