Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Reviews Razer Blade 15 (2020) review: 300Hz for the win By Luke Larsen Close $1,599.00 Sleek design Comfortable keyboard and touchpad Exceptional gaming experience 300Hz refresh rate Ideal port selection Runs hot Very expensive Many of the best gaming laptops swim in the wake of the Razer Blade. It’s a design that others seek to emulate , both in aesthetics and portability.
Design and keyboard Ports and security Performance Gaming performance Display and speakers Battery life The base edition Our take But with two years on the same chassis, the Razer Blade may not wow in the same way it once did. The latest version is a refinement of the formula, adding more performance and a faster 300Hz screen, with only a couple of minor adjustments to the formula.
Best Prime Day gaming laptop deals: Alienware, Razer, Asus & more CES 2023: Razer teases Blade 16 and Blade 18, a return to large gaming laptops Razer quadruples the Blade 14’s USB speed with a simple software update Razer offers models as affordable as $1,600, but my review unit will cost you $3,000. Does the Razer Blade still stand out enough to justify its premium, or has the competition caught up? Design and keyboard Image used with permission by copyright holder The Razer Blade’s biggest accomplishment is not what it achieves, but what it completely avoids. It’s a gaming laptop that nixes every design cliche typically associated with its rivals. It resists ornamentation and facade, instead focusing on straight lines and minimal chrome. Sit it next to the Acer Predator Triton 500 or the Alienware m15 , and you’ll see what I mean. The Razer Blade looks like a normal laptop.
That makes it a good option for someone who wants to use the device for tasks aside from gaming, especially since it only weighs 4.6 pounds. It’ll fit into your backpack just as easily as a MacBook Pro 16-inch or Dell XPS 15.
 The machined aluminum built quality is exceptional too, as long as you can forgive how quickly it picks up fingerprints.
There have always been exceptions to the Blade’s ethos, and they involve glowing lights. On the lid, Razer’s iconic green snakes still light up. It’s been dimmed on the silver version of this laptop, but here it still glows unashamedly. The same is true of the RGB-laden keyboard, which is backlit per key in a spectacular fashion that has become synonymous with the Razer brand.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Speaking of the keyboard, Razer has made a small adjustment to the layout. The keyboard previously featured full-sized arrow keys, which forced a separation between the question mark and shift key. Gamers may have appreciated the spacious arrow keys, but it was frustrating when typing.
The layout is now more conventional, which I consider an upgrade. Coming from the Dell XPS 15, though, the keycaps feel a bit small. It’s a minor quibble, but I’d like to see less space between keys in a future design.
Press a key, and you’ll be rewarded with fantastic key fell. There’s plenty of travel, with a satisfyingly springy mechanism that made me feel comfortable immediately. The glass touchpad is a winner, too. It’s large, responsive, and quiet. You won’t find a better keyboard and touchpad on a gaming laptop.
Ports and security Image used with permission by copyright holder All the bells and whistles are all here, well beyond what your standard gaming laptop offers. Razer even throws in an IR camera above the top bezel for Windows Hello facial authentication. It’s typical for gaming laptops to include HDMI and plenty of USB 3.2 Gen 2. The Blade includes both, with a total of three USB-A and a single USB-C port.
Razer takes it further, though, by including both Thunderbolt 3 and a full-size SD card slot. Creative professionals and content creators will appreciate these, which can support high-speed storage and quick access to camera files. Their inclusion shows how Razer wants to position the Blade.
Though you can power the laptop through its Thunderbolt 3 port, Razer also offers a proprietary charging port on the left side for full power.
The Razer Blade even supports the latest connectivity standards, such as Wi-Fi 6 and Bluetooth 5.1.
Performance Image used with permission by copyright holder Owners like to use the Razer Blade for everything from video editing to gaming, but the balance of its performance skews towards the latter. That has consequences for its performance in productivity applications which, though not poor, lags laptops that skew more towards work than play.
This year’s model features the latest 10th-gen Intel Core i7-10875H.
 Its eight cores and 16 threads are a big step up from six-core processors featured in previous generations, which is promising if you want to use the Razer Blade for more than gaming.
In the Cinebench R20 multi-core benchmark, the latest Razer Blade 15 represents a meaningful leap from last year. Again, it can thank those extra cores and threads for the bump. The Razer Blade still lags behind some other non-gaming laptops that use the same processor, however. It’s 29% behind the Dell XPS 15 , for example.
Interestingly, the Blade is a whopping 36% behind the Dell G5 SE.
 The G5 SE is a gaming laptop, but it uses an AMD GPU and CPU, along with the SmartShift technology to share power between the components.
Video encoding in Handbrake tells a similar story. The Razer was 9% slower than the Dell XPS 15 and 19% behind the XPS 17.
That’s not to say the Razer Blade 15 is a bad choice as a content creation laptop. When the GPU can be used, it’s quite powerful. For example, it’s a capable video rendering rig in an application like Adobe Premiere Pro. It exported a 2-minute 4K video clip to ProRes 422 in 7 minutes and 42 seconds. That’s much faster than the configuration I reviewed last year, which had a six-core Intel processor and an RTX 2070 Max-Q.
It still can’t beat options like the Dell XPS 17 or the Microsoft Surface Book 3 in these tests. Despite the Razer having a supercharged RTX 2080 Super, the XPS 17’s RTX 2060 finished the same render in Premiere 46% faster. That’s what a larger chassis and an improved thermal system buys you.
All versions of the Razer Blade come standard with 16GB of dual-channel RAM, and don’t allow for anything more. Most other performance-driven laptops offer up to 32GB, including both the Acer Predator Triton 500 and the Dell XPS 15.
Gaming performance Image used with permission by copyright holder The Razer Blade’s greatest performance strength is in gaming. It comes with either the Nvidia RTX 2070 Super Max-Q or the 2080 Super Max-Q. These new GPUs from Nvidia add just a few more frames per second (fps) than the non-Super versions that preceded them. Fortunately, the Razer Blade was already a supremely powerful gaming laptop.
Assassin’s Creed Odyssey is the most challenging test game, and the Razer Blade still averaged 60 fps with graphics detail at Ultra High. This and Civilization VI were the only two games where the Acer Predator Triton 500 pulled ahead a bit, offering up to 8% faster frame rates at the highest settings in both games. Still, you’ll likely not complain about the Razer Blade averaging 134 fps.
Going back to a 60Hz screen feels downright clunky by comparison.
Elsewhere, the Razer Blade dominates. It performed spectacularly in Fortnite and Battlefield V , surpassing the Triton 500 in both cases. In Battlefield V at Ultra, the Blade averaged 98 fps. When I pulled the settings back to Medium, the system pushed out 122 fps, which is a new record for 15-inch laptops. For a laptop this small, that’s seriously impressive.
Fortnite was similarly fast, with the Razer once again among the fastest 15-inch laptops I’ve tested. It easily hit 110 fps at Epic settings. But the responsiveness really came to life with lower settings. For example, 161 fps with settings at High felt incredibly fluid. Going back to a 60Hz screen on my XPS 15 felt downright clunky by comparison.
Image used with permission by copyright holder I even tried out Rocket League , which had no problem hitting its max of 250 fps at the highest graphics quality. That’s not quite 300, but the animations are unbelievably smooth, all the same.
These games were all played at the native 1080p screen resolution. You could connect to a higher-resolution external monitor, and I suspect it would handle 1440p quite well. While 4K would be a stretch in some games, turn-based strategy games like Civilization VI should be no problem.
The Razer Blade is, of course, quite expensive. Though it’s equal to the $3,000 Asus ROG Zephyrus S15 , it’s $400 more than the Triton 500, despite delivering very similar performance. The Alienware m15 will get you a similar package for almost $800 cheaper. Some of those options, such as the Triton 500, also offer G-Sync support. The Razer Blade lacks this feature, but the high refresh rate is surprisingly good at avoiding screen tearing.
In general, the Razer Blade still runs hot. Surface temperatures can get toasty during games, though that’s not too surprising. The frustrating part is temperatures at near idle. With nothing running, the palm rests and keyboard are still a bit warm, and that can be uncomfortable.
Display and speakers Image used with permission by copyright holder Razer offers two 15.6-inch display options, one for content creators, and one for gamers. The gaming-oriented screen, which I reviewed, is a 1080p display with the aforementioned 300Hz refresh rate. The creator-focused option is a 4K display, meant for photographers and video editors who need that high pixel count. The 4K screen also has a glossy finish, a touchscreen, and a 60Hz refresh rate.
While the 4K screen will no doubt offer a sharper image, the 1080p screen looks great. Contrast is high at 1,010:1, and though it maxes out at just 310 nits, the matte screen does a great job of blocking glare. The screen is also fairly color accurate, though you’ll need to opt for the 4K OLED panel if need a wide color gamut.
The Razer Blade offers a decent set of upward-firing speakers. They’re neck and neck with the Dell XPS 15, though they fall short of the MacBook Pro 16-inch. They’re still lacking bass, and there’s certainly room for improvement.
Battery life Because the Razer Blade doesn’t have G-Sync, its battery life doesn’t suffer the same fate as other gaming laptops. Those models, like the Predator Triton 500, only last a few hours in normal usage.
The Razer Blade’s five hours isn’t anything to write home about, of course. Despite its 97-watt hour battery, you still can’t get through a full workday without needing a charge. Less powerful laptops like the ROG Zephyrus G14 or Dell G5 SE can last an extra hour or so. Even the 4K Dell XPS 15 lasts up to 7 hours.
Of course, it all depends on how you’re using it. In our lightest test, which loops a local 1080p video, the Razer Blade endured just under 7.5 hours. If you’re running heavy applications or gaming, you can’t expect more than around 3 hours on a single charge.
That might not sound all that impressive, but you won’t find a laptop with an RTX 2080 Super that lasts this long.
The base edition The Razer Blade Base Edition Image used with permission by copyright holder When you go to buy a Razer Blade, you’ll encounter an “Advanced Edition” and a “Base Edition.” The Advanced Edition is what I reviewed, and it’s the version that gets you the newest parts.
However, the Base Edition has its benefits. It offers the same processor and memory options. You can even opt for the same 4K OLED screen if you want.
The differences come down to the chassis and the refresh rate. The Base Edition maxes out at 144Hz for the 1080p model, and the chassis is a bit thicker and heavier. The Base Edition also offers a different selection of graphics cards, ranging from the Nvidia GTX 1660 Ti up to the RTX 2080 Max-Q.
Razer also offers a “Studio Edition” that supports Nvidia’s RTX Quadro 5000 graphics and ships with Windows 10 Pro.
Our take The Razer Blade doesn’t demand you to use it in a certain way. It attempts to satisfy the modern gamer — the one who might also use their laptop for work or as a content creator on the side. The design of the Razer Blade isn’t as revolutionary as it once was, but there’s no question it still does it best.
Is there a better alternatives? The Acer Predator Triton 500 offers similar performance at a reduced cost, as does the Alienware m15.
 These laptops look more garish, however, and won’t work as well as day-to-day laptops. Check our in-depth comparison of the Alienware m15 and Razer Blade 15 for more insights.
If you’re looking for a more muted design to match the Razer Blade, the MSI GS66 Stealth is a close rival. Its build quality isn’t as strong, and previous versions haven’t performed as well.
How long will it last? Like most premium laptops, the Razer Blade should last at least four or five years. Its build quality is unrivaled, and the components are all up-to-date. It comes with a standard one-year warranty, but Razer offers three-year protection through its two different warranty plans, starting at $250.
Should you buy it? Yes. This is the best gaming laptop you can buy, and it’ll function great in almost every other setting, too.
There are also some discounted alternatives out there, and we can point you to some of the best gaming laptop deals and laptop deals.
Editors' Recommendations The best thin and light gaming laptops 2023 One of the most ambitious gaming laptops just got even better This RTX 3070 gaming laptop deal for $1,000 officially wins Cyber Monday Razer updates its Naga mouse with HyperSpeed wheel and more Dell XPS 15 vs. Razer Blade 15: which to buy in 2022 Laptop Reviews Laptops PC Gaming Product Reviews Computing Google has announced three new Chromebooks specifically designed with cloud gaming in mind. Acer, Asus, and Lenovo each have their own models, each sporting an assortment of gaming features, such as 120Hz refresh rate screens, higher=resolution displays, RGB lighting, improved audio, and faster processors.
Of course, unlike a standard gaming laptop, these new Chromebooks don't actually have hardware inside since they're meant to game primarily using game streaming services.
Computing The best Razer keyboards are some of the best keyboards you can buy in 2022. Razer is a reliable name when it comes to gaming peripherals, with a distinct style that appeals to gamers around the world, especially when it comes to synchronized RGB lighting, which can be customized using Razer's Synapse software.
If you are looking for a new keyboard, particularly from Razer, then you have come to the right place. We've picked some of the best Razer keyboards, and some of them are already part of our list of the best gaming keyboards of 2022.
Computing The 14-inch laptop has become increasingly popular, offering a slightly larger display without requiring a significantly larger chassis. Nowhere is that more true than in gaming laptops, where some gamers want portability as much as they want power.
The following are the best 14-inch gaming laptops you can buy today, with the Razer Blade 14 topping the list. It's a portable powerhouse with a spectacular design, but it's not the only game in town. We also feature its most important competitors, each of which has strengths that earned it a place on this list.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
