Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Guides Surface Pro 10: here’s what to expect from the next generation By Luke Larsen Close Microsoft has consistently put out a new version of its most popular Surface device, the Surface Pro. With it due to celebrate its 10th anniversary this year, it’s an important milestone for the device and may herald some exciting changes and upgrades over the still-impressive last-generation device, the Surface Pro 9.
Rumored release date Design and size options Windows 11 tie-in Configurations As we edge closer to its impending release, here’s what we know about the Surface Pro 10 so far.
Microsoft Rumored release date Microsoft typically holds a Surface hardware event in the fall, usually in late September or October, and this year is no different. It held a Surface event on September 21, but the Surface Pro 10 was surprisingly absent.
Instead, Microsoft focused on two new Surface devices: the Surface Laptop Studio 2 and the Surface Laptop Go 3.
 The Surface Go 4 also got a nod, though it’s only available for businesses.
I saw the new Space Black MacBook Pro, and it’s stunning Vision Pro 2: everything we expect from the future of Apple’s headsets Best Surface Laptop and Surface Pro deals: Prices from just $500 Design and size options According to a report from Windows Central , we shouldn’t expect a major shake-up in the overall design of the Surface Pro 10. It’ll keep its sleek 2-in-1 design, which includes a built-in kickstand and attachable Type Cover keyboard.
The design was last updated for the Surface Pro 8, which received slimmer bezels, a new charging slot for the Surface Slim Pen, and a higher refresh rate display. Last year’s Surface Pro 9 was a more iterative update, focusing more on the split between its Intel and Qualcomm models.
Setting that aside, the Surface Pro 10 will likely feature a very similar design. As much as we’d like Microsoft to debut something flashier to mark the 10th anniversary, the slower evolution of the design is more in step with how the company has treated its Surface products over time.
Mark Coppock/Digital Trends However, there’s one major change that’s rumored to come this year — and that’s the return of more size options. The same report from Windows Central claims that an 11-inch Surface Pro 10 is in the works. The standard Surface Pro has a 13-inch screen, though this isn’t the first time we’d be getting an 11-inch Surface.
In fact, Microsoft currently offers 11-inch Surface devices in the Surface Go line. The difference with this new 11-inch Surface Pro is that it would have the faster processor and better screen of the Pro line. Windows Central says the 11-inch Surface Pro will have high-end features such as thinner bezels and a 120Hz refresh rate screen.
Windows 11 tie-in Microsoft may be interested in a smaller Surface Pro to match what it’s doing with the Windows 11 tablet mode. For example, on screens 11 inches or smaller, it will open apps in full screen more like a traditional tablet. With the addition of some Android apps in Windows, Microsoft may be looking to capitalize on developments with a tried-and-true tablet form factor.
The Windows Central reporter’s sources claim that more tablet optimizations are coming in future updates of Windows 11.
 We’re also expecting Windows 12 to launch toward the end of 2024, which could expand touch capabilities and tablet mode features even further.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Configurations It’s unclear as to whether or not Microsoft will continue to pursue both Intel and ARM configurations. We know that Microsoft remains committed to supporting ARM chips with Windows and that another one is on the way. Some job listings point toward key hires in managing the “Microsoft Silicon Team” and developing Windows 12 to further improve tablet interfaces.
On the other hand, we know that the next-gen Qualcomm chips that Microsoft would have used are likely not coming out until 2024. This could mean that the Surface Pro 10 will either be Intel-exclusive or will have its ARM configuration delayed until next year.
Editors' Recommendations MacBook Pro M3: Should you choose the M3, M3 Pro, or M3 Max? The M3 Max makes the MacBook Pro look like a nearly unbeatable laptop Your next MacBook Pro may get a major battery boost — here’s why Surface Laptop Go 3 vs. Surface Pro 7+: is it an upgrade? Should you buy the Surface Laptop Studio or wait for the Surface Laptop Studio 2? Microsoft Microsoft Events Computing The Surface Laptop Go 3 is a fast, but affordable new laptop from Microsoft's latest line of Surface devices. Announced at Microsoft's September 2023 Surface event, it offers a speedy modern processor, plenty of SSD storage space, and a range of color options for the chassis. You can get the complete Surface package for $799, but you can configure it with more of less components to make it best suited for your needs.
Those extras do affect the cost, though, begging the question: Which is the best Surface Laptop Go 3 configuration? We've delved through the spec and retail listings to find out.
Computing The Surface Laptop Studio 2 has now been officially announced at Microsoft's September 2023 Surface event, and it has some really exciting specifications and features that may well make it one of our favorite 2-in-1 laptops of this year. But there are lots of options to pick from and a wide range of possible prices for this next-gen laptop. Do you pick the entry-level model with its affordable pricing and more modest hardware? Or go for something more impressive with a higher price tag? It all depends on what you want to do with it. Let's take a look at the difference Surface Laptop Studio 2 configurations, and which ones are the best to consider. If you want an overview on if you should buy the laptop at all, make sure to read our Surface Laptop Studio 2 review.
Computing The Surface Pen is an excellent accessory for the Surface Laptop Studio 2, and yes, it works well with it. You can use the Surface Pen on the Surface Laptop Studio 2 for all kinds of tasks, from note-taking to doodlin, and sketching. The screen of the next-gen Surface Laptop Studio might be the same as the last one, but it still really lends itself to that sort of nuanced interaction, letting you get pixel-perfect drawing and writing from the Surface Pen.
Th Pen is still magnetic too, so it's always on hand when you need it.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
