Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing News The Surface Pro 9 embraces ARM chips and a splash of fresh color By Luke Larsen Close Microsoft’s big fall Surface event has come, and the Surface Pro 9 is the headline new product. From the outside, it doesn’t look all that different from last year’s Surface Pro 8.
The detachable keyboard comes in some new color options, Sapphire and Forest, which Microsoft says contain at least “12% renewable content” from sugarcane waste. There’s also a new engraved design made in partnership with fashion brand Liberty London — but it’s otherwise an identical chassis.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The big change is under the hood. Gone is the division between Surface Pro 8 and Surface Pro X. If you remember, the Surface Pro X was meant to be Microsoft’s more cutting-edge laptop, featuring a slimmer design and a Qualcomm-based ARM chip inside. But two years later, the Surface Pro X has been absorbed into the mainline — and with it, a full embrace of Windows on ARM chips.
This isn’t the first time Microsoft has attempted to advance the cause of Windows on ARM , but with Apple’s M-series chips out and about, the stakes have never been higher to make it a success.
Everything Microsoft didn’t announce at its 2023 Surface event Surface Pro 10: here’s what to expect from the next generation Can you use the Surface Pen with the Surface Laptop Studio 2? The Surface Pro 9 now comes with the option of either a 12th-generation Intel or the SQ3 chip, which is based on Qualcomm’s Snapdragon 8cx Gen 3 SoCs (system on a chip). While the SQ3 comes in just a single variant, you get the normal assortment of configuration options on the Intel side, ranging from the Core i5-1245U up to the Core i7-1265U.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Which you choose, of course, has an impact on your system beyond just performance differences. The SQ3 model includes 5G connectivity, for example, while the Intel models have a Thunderbolt 4 port. The Intel model also comes with support for Dolby Vision IQ for the display and some higher-end configuration options, including 1TB of storage and 32GB of RAM.
The biggest advantage of the SQ3 model, however, seems to be battery life. ARM chips are known for their extreme efficiency, and according to Microsoft’s numbers, that appears to give the SQ3 model three and a half hours of extra battery life over the Intel model.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Aside from those differences, the Surface Pro 9 keeps the same sharp display, with a resolution of 2880 x 1920 and a 120Hz variable refresh rate. It has a 1080p webcam for video calls, compatibility with the Surface Slim Pen 2, and comes running the latest version of Windows 11 , of course.
Microsoft hasn’t announced pricing or availability information yet for the Surface Pro 9.
 The 2-in-1 was announced alongside the Surface Laptop 5 , the Surface Studio 2+ , and some new home office accessories.
Editors' Recommendations Surface Laptop Go 3 vs. Surface Pro 7+: is it an upgrade? Should you buy the Surface Laptop Studio or wait for the Surface Laptop Studio 2? Surface Laptop Studio 2 specs: which should you buy? Should you buy the Surface Pro 9, or wait for the Surface Pro 10? Qualcomm claims its laptops destroy Intel chips in AI tasks Microsoft Microsoft Events Tech News Computing Microsoft's Surface Pro 9 represents the latest version of what's become the industry standard for detachable tablet 2-in-1s. It's also one of the best laptops, period. Meanwhile, Lenovo's IdeaPad Duet 5i is an audacious new competitor, going up against an established machine.
There's one major factor differentiating the two: the price. The IdeaPad Duet 5i is significantly less expensive (and configurable) than the Surface Pro 9. Does that give it enough of a leg to stand on? Specs and configurations Computing Apple's M2 Max chip is not out yet, but some benchmarks of it already are. One such test was leaked today, showing off the performance of the new processor.
According to these scores, we might see a decent performance boost in the future MacBook Pros that will likely come with the M2 Max chip. Of course, things can still improve.
Computing We expect tech to get better with each generation. After all, what's the point of releasing a new version of your product if it's not better than the previous version? It's the question I had after reviewing the new Surface Pro 9 and Surface Laptop 5. There are plenty of good things about these new Surface devices, but there are a few ways they're actually worse than their predecessors, the Surface Pro 8 and Surface Laptop 4. That's not what you want in a launch of new products, especially when the competition continues to move forward.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
