Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Apple iPad (10th Gen, 2022) review: easy to love, tricky to recommend By Joe Maring Close $449.00 Updated, modern design Wonderfully vibrant colors Larger display is fantastic A14 chip is plenty powerful Strong battery life USB-C is finally here The headphone jack is gone Non-laminated screen Apple Pencil situation is a mess Huge price increase The Apple iPad (2022) is one of the biggest updates the baseline iPad has ever seen.
 It’s touting an all-new design, a larger screen, a more powerful chipset, a reimagined camera system, and more. By all accounts, it should be the iPad so many of us have been waiting for.
Apple iPad (2022) design iPad (2022) screen iPad (2022) performance and software iPad (2022) battery life iPad (2022) cameras iPad (2022) Apple Pencil iPad (2022) Magic Keyboard Folio Apple iPad (2022) price and availability The iPad (2022) is weird and wonderful But after using the iPad (2022), I’m torn about how I should feel about it. On the one hand, the upgrades Apple made this year are really good. This year’s iPad has a much roomier display, performs amazingly, and the color options are stunning. But due to a messy accessory situation and confusing competition from Apple itself, trying to figure out who is supposed to buy the iPad (2022) becomes a more complicated conversation than it should be.
Apple iPad (2022) design Joe Maring/Digital Trends One of my favorite things about the iPad (2022) is its design. This year’s iPad finally abandons the large bezels and home button of previous generations and embraces a full-screen aesthetic with slim bezels. In other words, it now looks just like the iPad Air, iPad Mini, and iPad Pro.
This results in a few big changes for the iPad (2022). Since there’s no longer a home button, the Touch ID fingerprint sensor is now embedded in the power button on the top frame. It’s easily accessible regardless of how you use the iPad (2022), and it’s just as fast and reliable as you’d expect. The new design also lends itself to an improved two-speaker landscape system. Audio is loud, crisp, and now shoots out from the left and right sides of the iPad when holding it horizontally — perfect for gaming or watching videos.
Joe Maring/Digital Trends In between the two speaker grilles on the bottom of the iPad (2022) is another big change: the Lightning port is gone! The iPad (2022) is the first baseline iPad to adopt USB-C , making the previous generation iPad (which Apple still sells) the only model to have a Lightning port. It’s a seemingly simple change, but it makes charging the iPad (2022) significantly more convenient than before, and puts Apple is in a good position ahead of the iPhone’s switch to USB-C in 2023 or 2024.
But there’s something about the iPad (2022) that I love even more. More than the smaller bezels, improved speakers, and USB-C port. Yes, I’m talking about the colors.
Apple The iPad is often devoid of fun colors. The iPad (2021) only came in Space Gray and silver, and those have been the two colors of choice for the iPad Pro since the very beginning. Apple has gotten more creative with the iPad Air and iPad mini in recent years, but even then, it’s stuck with muted color palettes that seem afraid to be too colorful. The iPad (2022) totally upends that way of thinking.
In addition to a stark white option, the iPad (2022) comes in pink, blue, and yellow — all of which are bright, vibrant, and overly saturated. Apple sent me the iPad (2022) in yellow, and depending on how the light hits it, it shifts from a dark, deep yellow to a more intense neon yellow. The pink hue also looks gorgeous, and the blue this year is much improved from the blue we had on the last two generations of iPad Air. And even if you’re someone who keeps their iPad in a case, the Smart Folio cases for the iPad (2022) match the colors perfectly.
A less positive change with the iPad (2022) is the removal of the 3.5mm headphone jack — something that’s been a constant on the base iPad. While it’s not something that I use personally, I understand the value of the port for a gadget that’s often used as a family or kid’s tablet. You can obviously replicate its functionality with a dongle, but keeping a dedicated port would have been nice.
iPad (2022) screen Joe Maring / Digital Trends The slimmer bezels on the iPad (2022) aren’t just a nice convenience; they also allow Apple to cram a much larger display in the same footprint. Instead of the 10.2-inch screen we’ve had for the last few generations of iPad, the iPad (2022) cranks things up to a 10.9-inch canvas. That translates to more room for apps, games, movies, etc. I’ve never felt like I didn’t have enough room on the iPad (2022), and since it’s just slightly taller and wider than the previous model, you get that extra real estate while retaining a tablet body that’s still comfortable to hold.
As for the quality of the display, that’s where you’re quickly reminded of the iPad (2022)’s baseline nature. The 10.9-inch screen is an LED panel with a 2360 x 1640 resolution. It also has 500 nits of max brightness, sRGB colors, and Apple’s True Tone display technology.
In most scenarios, the screen on the iPad (2022) looks perfectly fine — sometimes even great. Colors are vibrant without being too punchy, text is easily legible, and I’ve been thoroughly happy looking at Call of Duty: Mobile or watching back-to-back episodes of Abbott Elementary.
 But it’s in the smaller details where I get disappointed.
Joe Maring/Digital Trends / Digital Trends For starters, the iPad (2022) has a basic 60Hz refresh rate. This is the same as the iPad Mini, iPad Air, and non-Pro iPhones like the iPhone 14 and iPhone 14 Plus.
 While a 60Hz screen is easier to overlook on a smaller iPhone display, it’s much more noticeable on an iPad.
 Whether you’re scrolling through home screens, browsing articles on Safari, or doing anything that requires you to interact with the screen, I can’t help but notice how choppy animations look — especially coming from the 120Hz screen on my iPhone 14 Pro Max.
 I certainly didn’t expect a 120Hz refresh rate on Apple’s second-cheapest iPad, but it’s something I can’t help but notice in daily use.
Another pain point is the iPad (2022)’s display visibility. Using the iPad (2022) outdoors or in direct sunlight often makes the screen washed-out and difficult to see. I think this is largely due to the non-laminated nature of the iPad’s display, rather than the 500 nits of brightness. Compared to the laminated screens on the iPad Air or iPad Mini, the non-laminated one on the iPad (2022) produces more glare and there’s a noticeable gap between the glass and the display panel itself. This isn’t new for the base iPad range, but with the $120 price hike this year, the non-laminated design stings more than usual.
iPad (2022) performance and software Joe Maring/Digital Trends One area where the iPad (2022) shines is its performance. Inside the tablet is Apple’s A14 Bionic processor, the same one used in the iPhone 12 lineup and iPad Air (2020).
 Although the A14 is more than two years old at this point, it remains an outstanding mobile chip for the iPad.
I’ve used the iPad (2022) for a variety of tasks since I’ve had it. It’s been my go-to device for watching YouTube, reading articles on Safari, practicing Duolingo lessons, and playing mobile games — specifically, many hours of Call of Duty: Mobile and Sayonara Wild Hearts.
 Even when pushing the iPad with graphically intense games or streaming a video in a picture-in-picture window while using another app, it’s never buckled under pressure. Apps open and run flawlessly, games are a joy to play, and running two apps side by side is a breeze. Apple’s chipsets have been overkill for a while now, and this is evidence of that. The A14 has been succeeded twice since its release, but when using the iPad (2022), you’d never be able to tell.
The A14 inside of the iPad powers its iPadOS 16 software — and it’s great — though many of the new features here are also present in iOS 16. You can edit and unsend message s in iMessage, easily log into certain websites with Passkeys , and instantly remove the background from virtually any photo.
 And, finally, there’s an official Weather app for the iPad.
Apple There are two other big things going on with iPadOS 16, though you can’t use them. Freeform — Apple’s nifty creative app that lets you draw and take notes with other users in real time — won’t be available until later this year.
And Stage Manager, Apple’s bizarre multitasking interface, isn’t coming to the iPad (2022) at all. That may not be such a bad thing given the early reception to Stage Manager , but just know this iPad isn’t getting the full iPadOS 16 experience.
iPad (2022) battery life Joe Maring/Digital Trends One of the few things that stayed the same with the iPad (2022) is its battery life. Apple estimates you’ll get up to 10 hours of web surfing/video playback per charge — the same amount promised for the last-gen iPad and the current iPad Air. While I haven’t quite been reaching 10 hours of screen-on time, I have been really happy with the endurance provided by the iPad (2022).
Everyone’s iPad usage is different, but for me, the iPad (2022) easily gets through two days without a problem — and could likely last for three with lighter usage.
Here’s an example of how I’ve been using the iPad (2022). I started one day with 100% battery and ended it with 1 hour and 28 minutes of screen time. That included 26 minutes playing Call of Duty: Mobile , over 20 minutes writing in my journaling app, and other various usage including Twitter, Safari, etc. The next day saw 2 hours and 35 minutes of screen time — including about 20 minutes of CoD: Mobile , nearly 40 minutes of watching YouTube, over 40 minutes of playing a Twitch video in the background, and more. After those two days, the iPad (2022) still had 26% battery left in the tank.
When the battery does eventually run out, the USB-C port makes charging the iPad (2022) much more convenient than its predecessor. Apple even includes a braided USB-C cable in the box, along with a 20-watt wall adapter.
iPad (2022) cameras Joe Maring/Digital Trends Let’s talk cameras next. On the back of the iPad (2022) is a new 12MP wide camera with f/1.8 aperture and Smart HDR 3 for image processing. It’s a sizable upgrade from the 8MP camera on the previous iPad, and puts the camera in line with the one on the iPad Air (2022).
Previous Next 1 5 Joe Maring/Digital Trends Joe Maring/Digital Trends Joe Maring/Digital Trends Joe Maring/Digital Trends Joe Maring/Digital Trends The iPad (2022) likely won’t be your go-to photography device, but if you’re in a pinch and need to snap a photo with it, the results will look fine.
Viewed on their own, photos appear to have decent colors and a fine amount of detail. But there’s a very clear quality disparity between the iPad (2022)’s camera and what’s on an iPhone 14 Pro.
 It’ll work if you need it, but it also doesn’t do anything spectacular.
Joe Maring/Digital Trends What’s much more interesting is the 12MP front-facing camera. It’s the same sensor used in the iPad (2021) and iPad Air (2022), but it’s now placed in landscape orientation. When you turn the iPad (2022) horizontally, the camera is front and center on your face — not off to the side like it is on all other models.
The camera quality is still mediocre at best, but the updated placement is a huge perk if you take a lot of video calls from your iPad. And combined with the Center Stage feature that keeps your head in view even while you move around, the iPad (2022) is a pretty killer device for virtual meetings.
iPad (2022) Apple Pencil Joe Maring / Digital Trends Like any iPad, the iPad (2022) is just part of the equation; it’s also the gateway to a slew of accessories that make the iPad experience even better. One of those is the Apple Pencil. The iPad Pro, iPad Air, and iPad Mini all work with the second-gen Apple Pencil that magnetically mounts and wirelessly charges on the side of the device. Despite its redesign that looks so well-suited for the second-gen Apple Pencil, the iPad (2022) uses the same first-gen Apple Pencil used by the iPad (2021).
Compared to its newer sibling, the first-gen Apple Pencil just isn’t as nice. While it has the same writing/drawing features as its successor, one of the biggest downsides to this Apple Pencil is that there’s no way to store it on the iPad (2022). When you aren’t using it, it just has to sit on a table, in your bag, or somewhere else where you have to hope you won’t misplace it.
Joe Maring / DIgital Trends Even more annoying is how the Apple Pencil charges. A small cap comes off the end of the Apple Pencil to reveal a Lightning port that’s used to charge and pair it. With the iPad (2021), you can just plug the Apple Pencil directly into its Lightning port and call it a day. It’s far from a graceful solution, but it works. Since the iPad (2022) swaps out the Lightning port for USB-C, we end up with a comically messy alternative.
Now, you need a new USB-C to Lightning adapter to charge the Apple Pencil and initially pair it with the iPad (2022). Plug one end of the Apple Pencil into the adapter, a USB-C cable into the other end, and then plug the cable into the iPad. It’s not a laborious process, but requiring an adapter for such a fundamental task is kind of ridiculous.
You are definitely going to lose this.
Joe Maring/Digital Trends It’s another thing to lose, another thing to keep track of, and another purchase you’ll need to make. Apple is now bundling the adapter with new purchases of the first-gen Apple Pencil, but if you already have it, you’ll need to buy the adapter for $9.
To Apple’s credit, there is one upside to this design. If someone’s upgrading to the iPad (2022) from a previous iPad model and already has an Apple Pencil, all they need is a $9 adapter — not a brand new second-gen Apple Pencil for $129. But even so, the whole implementation still feels clunky and unintuitive. It’s never made sense why iPads don’t support both the second- and first-gen Apple Pencils, and that point is made more annoyingly obvious than ever here.
iPad (2022) Magic Keyboard Folio Joe Maring / Digital Trends The other big accessory for the iPad (2022) is the Magic Keyboard Folio. It’s an evolution of the Magic Keyboard available for the iPad Pro and Air, though it introduces a new two-piece design with a stand that can be adjusted to virtually any position.
We’ll start with what I like. The flexibility of the new design is fantastic. You can attach just the stand portion to protect the back of the iPad (2022) and easily prop it up on a desk or table. Then, when you’re ready to start typing, the keyboard portion snaps on via three magnetic connectors.
Previous Next 1 5 Joe Maring/Digital Trends Joe Maring/Digital Trends Joe Maring/Digital Trends Joe Maring/Digital Trends Joe Maring/Digital Trends It’s much more versatile than the Pro and Air’s Magic Keyboard, and the keyboard itself has also been improved. There’s now a full row of function keys at the very top — giving you quick shortcuts for Spotlight Search, Do Not Disturb, brightness, volume, etc. The trackpad is also a bit taller than before. Combined with a quiet, comfortable, and accurate typing experience, there’s a lot to like about the Magic Keyboard Folio.
But there’s also plenty to dislike. For one thing, I don’t have much confidence in its ability to protect the iPad (2022). You can fold the keyboard up to cover the screen and turn it into one seamless package. Unfortunately, the magnets that are supposed to keep the keyboard in place are very weak and often don’t align as they should.
Joe Maring/Digital Trends There’s also zero protection for the iPad’s frame, with it instead being totally exposed to the elements. It’s fine for anyone who’s careful with their iPad, but I struggle to imagine the Magic Keyboard Folio offering much protection should you drop it. Furthermore, while this two-piece design offers more versatility in some instances, it’s also significantly worse for “lapability.” You can put this on your lap and use the iPad (2022) as a laptop replacement, but the keyboard isn’t sturdy and typically results in awkward typing.
Finally, I’m having a difficult time justifying the Magic Keyboard Folio’s price.
Logitech’s Combo Touch keyboard is essentially the same design, but it has much better protection, an included loop for your Apple Pencil, and costs just $159. I’ve mostly enjoyed using the Magic Keyboard Folio, but as a $249 accessory, it’s not one I think I’d be able to justify.
Apple iPad (2022) price and availability The Apple iPad (2022) is available for purchase now.
 The base model with 64GB of storage and Wi-Fi only costs $449. However, 64GB isn’t much space in 2022, so you’ll likely want to go for the 256GB model that sells for $599.
Apple also sells the iPad (2022) in a cellular trim with 5G connectivity.
 That version with 64GB costs $599, while the 256GB + cellular version is $749.
The iPad (2022) is weird and wonderful Joe Maring/Digital Trends There’s a lot I like about the iPad (2022). The new design and colors are exquisite, it’s a fast performer, and the battery life is reliable. But there are also little annoyances like the non-laminated display and missing headphone jack, plus the whole Apple Pencil situation that I don’t think I’ll ever come to terms with.
And those things are compounded when you start looking at other iPads in Apple’s portfolio.
Let’s say you want an iPad just to have an iPad. Maybe it’s something you’ll give to your kids, use as a family tablet, or you want a big screen for watching YouTube videos while spending as little as possible. The iPad (2021) is still perfectly suited for those things, and being $120 cheaper than the iPad (2022), it’s a much better fit for budget-conscious shoppers.
But what if you have more cash to spend and want something more capable? The iPad Air (2022) gives you Apple’s much more powerful M1 chip with a dedicated media engine, a higher-quality laminated display, and it works with the second-gen Apple Pencil. Whether you want to do some light productivity work or need a reliable tablet for drawing, the Air delivers all of it more elegantly than the iPad (2022). And while the iPad Air retails for $599, you can now find it on sale at pretty significant discounts ( Amazon has it down to $519 right now ).
Who’s the iPad (2022) for, then? Your guess is as good as mine! I’ve thoroughly enjoyed testing the iPad (2022), and it’s a product that’s very easy to love. But when it comes time for you to buy a new iPad, I don’t think it’s the one you should get.
Editors' Recommendations The iPad is going to get an amazing new feature in 2024 Best iPad deals: Save on 10.2-inch iPad, iPad Pro, and more The new Apple Pencil is cheaper, gets USB-C, and is missing critical features Best refurbished iPad deals: Get an iPad with warranty for $116 Can my iPad get iPadOS 17? Here’s every compatible model Apple Apple iPad iPhone and iPad Reviews Product Reviews Tablet Reviews Mobile Apple's next press event is set to kick off today, Tuesday, September 12, beginning at 10:00 a.m. PT / 1:00 p.m. ET. The uniquely named "Wonderlust" event will almost certainly introduce the world to the iPhone 15 series and next-generation Apple Watches — including the Apple Watch Series 9 and Apple Watch Ultra 2. We could also see USB-C finally arriving on the Apple AirPods Pro.
Like last year's event, the iPhone 15 event will be streamed across various platforms, including Apple's website, on iPhone/iPad and Apple TV, X (formerly known as Twitter), and YouTube. Here's a look at how to stream the highly anticipated event as it happens later today.
How to watch the iPhone 15 event on your iPhone or iPad Mobile Apple appears set to overhaul the iPad Pro, though the refreshed tablet seems unlikely to hit the market until next year.
The news appeared on Sunday courtesy of Bloomberg’s Mark Gurman, who often calls it right with Apple-related news.
Computing Pretty much all Apple products are some of the best-in-class for their respective type of tech. However, you do pay for the privilege with many devices like iPads or MacBooks costing a little more than non-Apple variants. That's why it's so useful to find great Apple deals like the ones below. We've picked out some of the best ways to save substantially on highly sought after Apple products from accessories to AirPods and more. Take a look below at some of our favorite Apple deals right now.
AirTags (4-pack) -- $89, was $99 If you worry about misplacing items, you need Apple AirTags. With a simple one-tap setup, your iPhone or iPad is instantly connected to an AirTag so that you can always use find items via the Find My app. That could be your car keys, your bag, or anything else that you can fit or slip an AirTag into. If you misplace something, you can simply put the AirTag into Lost Mode to be notified when it's detected in the Find My network helping you pin it down. You can also play a sound through the built-in speaker if you know it's nearby but you're not sure if it's worth moving the couch to find it.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
