Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best cloud storage services By Mark Coppock Close When you need to access your documents quickly, but you don’t always have your desktop handy, cloud storage is a quick and convenient option. There are more than enough storage services available, and while they might look similar, not every choice is the same.
The best The rest When it comes to specs, pricing, and storage capacity, our team has already done the hard work and compared the storage services for you to find the best one for your needs.
The best iDrive Image used with permission by copyright holder Although other cloud backup companies may offer unlimited storage as a major perk, iDrive has still consistently outperformed them in critical and user reviews, offering competitive pricing for its plans, and a wealth of exciting features. With 5GB for free and just over $50 for five terabytes of storage on unlimited devices, its personal and business storage options are impressive.
The best tablets in 2023: top 11 tablets you can buy now 9 best monitors for 2023: tested and reviewed The best processors in 2023: AMD and Intel CPUs duke it out iDrive supports multiple device backup on any numbers of Windows PCs, MacOS systems, iOS and Android smart devices, tablets, and more, all linked to a single account. You can backup entire disk images, backup your most important files and folders to external drives as well as the cloud, and access your entire backup through a web browser, desktop client, or mobile app.
For those who like to configure their backups, there are options for the types of files you want to store, how often they’re backed up, and there’s even the option to secure your files with a private encryption key if you want.
Concerned about download or upload rates? iDrive will send you a hard drive to make sending them your data faster, or send one out to you with your data on it, to give you a faster restore process.
The rest Dropbox Mark Coppock/Digital Trends Dropbox’s service is fully-featured and easy to use. Even though a number of services offer more initial free space — Google Drive, Mega, iCloud, and others outweigh Dropbox’s 2GB — many customers seem to find Dropbox’s referral rewards system irresistible (up to 32GB free space total for Professional and Plus accounts).
Plus accounts start at $10/month on annual subscriptions (or $12/month when billed monthly) for 2TB, and DropBox also offers professional plans with more features for more money. Mobile support includes Android, iPhone, iPad, Windows 10 Mobile, and Kindle Fire.
Dropbox boasts excellent sharing abilities. Invite someone to share a particular Dropbox folder with you and that folder will appear right on their desktop. You can also send a link to an individual document or image. In addition, folders full of images can be viewed as a gallery, making Dropbox a viable photo-sharing alternative to Imgur and Flickr.
Google Drive Google Drive is great for anyone who prefers Google’s ecosystem. The web giant thrives on integration with Google’s other services as part of its Google One platform, including the likes of Gmail and Google Docs. It offers 15GB of Google Drive space for files, Gmail, and Google Photos entirely for free, with incredibly affordable options for expanded storage. 100GB is just $2 a month, with 200GB at $3. $10 a month will get you 2TB and $50 10TB, with up to 30TB ($150) available for the biggest storage users.
Google Drive is heavily integrated into the Chrome OS and Android environments, offering expansive storage for devices with limited local storage. Paid customers can also enjoy in-depth support for all Google Services under the Google One program, with phone, chat, and email options.
Signing up is as simple as logging in with a Gmail address and password. From there, Google Drive appears right in your Google toolbar, just a click away from your email inbox. You can drag-and-drop files straight into your browser, or download the desktop client to have access to Google Drive as a folder, just like with Dropbox.
Google Drive’s standout features are its sharing and collaboration tools. Thanks to integration with Gmail and other Google services, you can share files with a click, with or without requiring a password. When you work with partners on the same word file, spreadsheet, or presentation, either separately or right at the same time, Google Drive marks the contributions of each person with different colored labels to make clear what has changed.
Microsoft OneDrive Image used with permission by copyright holder OneDrive has undergone some significant updates over the last few years, and now serves as a strong foundation for Microsoft’s overall productivity solutions.
It’s not so much that Microsoft OneDrive does one thing better than other cloud storage systems, but it is well rounded and it’s well integrated with the Xbox and Windows 10 platforms.
If you don’t have a pressing reason to choose another service, then it’s hard to go wrong with OneDrive. Furthermore, if you’ve bought into Microsoft’s Windows 10 ecosystem, then OneDrive is one of the best solutions for you. It touts a decent amount of free space (5GB), along with inexpensive upgrades and the ability to get 1TB of storage with an Office 365 subscription. Microsoft’s cross-platform strategy means that mobile support is very strong, including Android, iPhone, and iPad.
You can also post photos directly from OneDrive to Facebook , LinkedIn, Twitter, and other social-networking sites, which can save time for busy social network users. The service also offers built-in remote access capabilities. From the OneDrive.com website, you can get access to any PC associated with your account that has the OneDrive client installed, even files not already uploaded to OneDrive.
OneDrive is one of the only services to integrate with free Office Web Apps , allowing you to work collaboratively on projects, much like in Google Docs. However, the Office Web Apps have the advantage of opening Word, PowerPoint, and Excel documents seamlessly, avoiding any formatting kerfuffles. OneDrive maintains the 25 most recent versions of every file, so if a partner makes a change you don’t like, you can easily revert to an earlier version.
iCloud Image used with permission by copyright holder Apple’s cloud storage service doesn’t make waves on paper, but it’s great if you use iTunes as your central media hub. iCloud provides 5GB of free storage, while upgrading to 50GB will cost $1/month, 200GB for $3/month, and 2TB for $10/month. The content you download from iTunes will not count towards your storage limit. However, You should know that iOS devices use iCloud for backup. If you have a lot of files on your device, you can reach your iCloud storage limit quickly.
iCloud users also have access to the device’s media sharing hub, accessible through Apple’s cloud-based productivity suite iWork. The latest updates have set this cloud service up for success; Its interface is incredibly easy-to-use. It functions as a standout word processor, even rivaling Google Docs in its performance levels. Users who have an Apple iPhone, tablet, or computer will find a host of positive impacts from using iCloud. That said, we do believe that Google’s storage platform is a stronger service. It offers more storage and similar services at a cheaper price point, and its file-sharing is tough to beat.
Box Image used with permission by copyright holder Box is a dependable tool for any Android, iPhone, or iPad users. The service gives users who prioritize privacy the chance to limit whether their information can be shared with large corporations, like Google, Apple, or Microsoft.
The free, basic Box account features about 10GB of storage. However, the Starter account only features a $10 monthly fee and provides approximately 100GB of storage space. There is also a Business plan in this service, which offers tons of added features like password-protected sharing and version history, but we don’t think it’s essential. Even the basic account allows users to share files and folders with other users. You don’t need the Business plan to do that. Box is an excellent service, especially if you need a bit of help with your workflow management. With this tool, you can comment, assign tasks to other users, and much more.
Editors' Recommendations Adobe Free Trial: Try Creative Cloud for free These are the best ultrawide monitors you buy in 2023 The best 17-inch laptops The best Intel processors for 2023 The best MacBook to buy in 2023 Mobile Computing All-in-one computers provide everything your average consumer might need in a single package, nixing the need for a standalone desktop in favor of a monitor-toting piece of PC hardware. They come in an array of styles, offering everything from 1080p touchscreens and 5K resolution to robust sound and high-end Intel Core processors. Each also typically comes bundled with a keyboard and mouse.
Most target the premium market with a sleek, streamlined design, yet recent offerings continue to push the boundaries of a what a budget-based PC is capable of. Consumers pay for this style and convenience in terms of performance, and while the best all-in-one computers don't pack the processors or video cards some enthusiasts demand, they're efficient enough for most everyday tasks.
Computing The 2-in-1 form factor has certainly come into its own over the last several years. There's really no reason to limit yourself to a clamshell, as there's a 2-in-1 that will meet the needs of all but the most demanding users in terms of sheer performance.
We've reviewed every great 2-in-1 you can buy, including Chromebooks, convertibles, and powerful 15-inch versions. The overall best 2-in-1 at the moment is the Microsoft Surface Pro 9, with its fantastic keyboard that's as easy to remove as it is to type on, plus its 120Hz display and haptic-enabled pen. It's almost as good a laptop as it is a tablet, which is what makes it the best overall 2-in-1. test Computing In an age where digital documentation often takes center stage, the need for a reliable and cost-effective printer remains undeniable. Whether it's for last-minute homework assignments, important work documents, or cherished family photos, finding the best affordable printer can save both money and time. In this article, we've listed some of the best affordable printers. Whether you're a student on a tight budget, a small business owner looking to cut costs, or simply someone seeking an affordable printing solution, we've got you covered with our top picks for budget-friendly printers that deliver quality without breaking the bank.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
