Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps Convert PDF to Word Page Numbers in Word Double Space in Word Table of Contents in Word Home Computing Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best PDF editors for 2023 By Anita George and Tyler Lacoma Close The PDF file format has great support for text and video, as well as an efficient file size, making it a great format for all kinds of documents and data. It’s also excellent for preserving the quality and formatting of a document.
Adobe Acrobat is perhaps the most well-known PDF editor, but there are other options to consider. Having access to a PDF editor opens the possibility of editing document texts, adding images, filling out forms, and converting your PDF files to other formats. A PDF editor is a useful tool if you work with this format regularly.
Our guide to the best PDF editors will help you choose the right editor for your needs.
The best all-in-one computers for 2023 The best wireless mouse for 2023: top wireless mice tested and compared Adobe Acrobat Pro DC The best PDF editor overall Adobe Adobe first introduced the PDF format nearly 30 years ago, and Acrobat Pro DC is the current industry standard for editing PDF files.
 It’s a PDF editor that combines the hallmarks of the other programs on our list into a unified piece of software. It’s also one of the few premium programs available for both Windows and MacOS. Acrobat Pro DC boasts dedicated mobile functionality (with iOS and Android apps) and the ability to convert various file formats to PDF, including multiple web pages (HTML), Word documents, Excel spreadsheets, PowerPoint presentations, and even scans or image files like PNG or JPEG.
Simply put, you can’t do much better than the premium version of Adobe Acrobat Reader for editing your PDF files. It has an array of text-editing options, and can instantly convert and save scanned documents to PDF. It even has the ability to merge multiple PDF files.
 Adobe’s editing options also include reordering pages, page rotation, annotations, page cropping, page removals, and being able to split PDFs into separate files.
Get Adobe Acrobat Pro PDFGear The best free PDF editor Jon Martindale/Screenshot / DigitalTrends PDFGear is a free PDF editor that rivals some of the best paid-for solutions with its range of features; It’s my new favorite app.
 It even has ChatGPT built right in , letting it summarize PDFs or search information in them for quick reference. It can also edit, merge, compress, convert, and even sign. You can draw with a mouse, upload a signature image, or use a handy stamp to sign lots of documents regularly.
Better yet, its offline application is free too, so you can sign and edit important and sensitive documents without fear of some online service looking over your shoulder. There’s an online editor if you need to sign or edit a PDF while you don’t have the option of installing the application, and it’s just as fully featured.
PDFGear isn’t just a great PDF editor, it’s a productivity-boosting tool. With its AI integration, you can find information from PDFs faster, and interact with them in natural ways — just ask the AI to perform a task. If PDFGear can do it, the AI can do it for you.
Try PDFGear Microsoft Word The most convenient PDF editor Image used with permission by copyright holder If you use Microsoft Office , then you already have access to a versatile PDF document editor.
In the past, versions of Microsoft Word were limited to saving a document in or out of the PDF format, and that was about it. However, the more recent 2013, 2016, 2019, 2021, and Microsoft 365 versions allow you to open a PDF and then make specific edits to the piece as a Word document. When finished, you can save it as a PDF again. This is especially useful because many people are already most comfortable editing documents in the Microsoft Word format.
It’s a simple tool, and formatting doesn’t always line up correctly based on the PDF, but it’s an excellent alternative if you need to dip into a PDF fast for a bit of basic editing or text changes. Plus, Word is a straightforward editing tool for employees and students who are already familiar with Word and don’t want to learn a new program.
While there are limited ways you can use Microsoft Word for free , it is generally software that you have to pay to use, either via a subscription or a hefty one-time payment.
Try Microsoft Word PDF Architect 9 The most fully-featured PDF editor Image used with permission by copyright holder German company Pdfforge has a unique purchase model for its PDF Architect program.
 It’s available as a free download or as part of three separate packages (Standard, Professional, and Pro+OCR). Each package includes a set of modules for the program, which dictate its editing power. The Standard package includes the Edit, Convert, and Page modules. Professional features all the modules from the Standard package and adds the Review/Comment, Secure, and Forms modules. Finally, Pro+OCR has everything from the Professional package and the OCR Advanced module. Full descriptions of each module can be found on the Pdfforge website.
Even the Pro+OCR package is available at a reasonable price, and the full suite of editing tools makes up one of the most complete, inclusive PDF editors out there. The latest version of PDF Architect is PDF Architect 9, and premium subscriptions to it include features such as editing text, the ability to convert PDFs into other file formats, support for comments/annotations, and password protection of your PDFs.
There is a (limited) free version of PDF Architect 8. It lets you convert Word, Excel, or PowerPoint documents into PDFs, rotate PDFs, or even merge PDFs and delete pages.
Get PDF Architect 9 Sejda PDF Editor The best online PDF editor Image used with permission by copyright holder Sejda is a web app designed for speedy PDF editing, and it does that very well. It’s straightforward, focusing on fast PDF signatures and only basic text editing for the files you upload. But that’s also why we like it. This online, free PDF editor lets you do all sorts of things to PDFs, including changing font formatting, adding images, filling out forms, adding or editing hyperlinks, adding form fields, making annotations, and signing PDFs. You can even sign a PDF file with three options: Drawing your signature with your mouse, typing in your name, or uploading an image of your signature.
It provides explicit instructions, making it hard to mess anything up, and it’s quick. If your boss or co-worker doesn’t really understand how to use technology or have the patience to download new apps — but you still need their signature on a random PDF file — this is one of the best ways to e-sign a document.
If you’re looking for an easy online PDF editor, then give this one a shot. The free version does come with some limitations, however: You can only upload up to 200 pages or 50 Mb and you can only do three “tasks per hour.” Get Sejda PDFescape The best free PDF editor Image used with permission by copyright holder PDFescape is a free web app, so it’s accessible through your favorite browser.
 There’s no lengthy installation process to slow down your work. Users can access the editor using any operating system, as long as they can connect to the internet. PDFescape’s service is compatible with Safari, Microsoft Edge, Chrome, Internet Explorer, Firefox, and Opera browsers.
You can just pull up a PDF document in the PDF viewer and start adding text and images and even white-out old content. There are handy features like zoom and rotate to see small or awkwardly angled text better, and you can use a flurry of standard tools, such as a form designer and several annotation features.
There’s also a desktop version with all of the same features as the free online version, plus desktop PDF editing, more editing features, the ability to print and scan to PDF, and you can publish PDF forms. Depending on which premium plan you select, the desktop version can cost $3 or $6 per month (when billed annually), but you can test them out with a free trial. Luckily, you won’t need an internet connection to use the premium desktop versions, and $3 to $6 a month isn’t too bad. Overall, it’s a functional, simple PDF editing tool. If you aren’t looking for anything too complicated, give it a try.
Get PDFescape Foxit PDF Editor The best PDF editor for professionals screenshot Foxit PDF Editor is a great premium option for businesses and professionals who need more editing tools. The first thing you need to know is that there are three kinds of editor products: PDF Editor Online, Foxit PDF Editor, and Foxit PDF Editor Pro.
The Online version looks like it’s a free option, but it’s not — it requires you to sign up for an account, and you’ll only get a free trial, after which you’ll be prompted to sign up for a subscription. With the Online version, you can edit and add text and objects, insert and delete pages, convert from other file formats, and even password-protect, sign, and redact parts of PDFs.
The standard PDF Editor version is available for Windows, MacOS, online, Android, and iOS, and it’s $79 per year. It comes with six feature sets: Edit, Review, Manage, Share, Protect, and Create. PDF Editor Pro is only available on Windows, costs $99 per year, and comes with everything in the standard version plus three more feature sets: Advanced Collaboration, Advanced Editing, and Advanced Security. Both of these options also offer free trials so you can test them out.
Get Foxit PDF Editor PDF-XChange Editor Another great free PDF editor PDF-XChange Editor/Tracker Software PDF-XChange Editor is a free PDF editor that comes with a laundry list of features. Some of these features include editing text, adding or listening to audio comments, annotations, adding custom stamps, adding or editing hyperlinks, and the ability to move, add, or edit bookmarks. You won’t, however, be able to edit scanned documents. PDF-XChange has support for Sharepoint, Google Drive, and Microsoft Office 365, which means you can access documents via those cloud services and convert them to or from a PDF as needed by using PDF-XChange Editor.
If you need more than what the free version offers, you’ll need to upgrade to purchasing a license. If you do so, you’ll gain access to features such as Bates numbering, deleting pages, moving pages, inserting blank pages, and header and footer support. It’s also worth noting that the free version will put a watermark on the documents you edit or create with that version. Licenses start at $46 for one user with one year of maintenance.
PDF-XChange Editor is only compatible with Windows devices.
Get PDF-XChange Editor PDFelement Pro iSkySoft / iSkySoft PDFelement Pro from iSkysoft is a PDF is a free and paid-for PDF editor with a range of impressive features. Of the paid versions, there are two main types: PDFelement and PDFelement Pro. The free version leaves any exported files with a watermark, and you’re restricted on the number of pages that can be saved or converted. If you simply need to make and save edits on a PDF for just a few pages and you don’t mind a watermark, the free trial version could work for you.
If you don’t want the watermarked trial version, but only need the software for basic editing, you may want to consider purchasing the standard PDFelement software license that comes with the ability to do things like to create and edit PDFs , convert them, add annotations and comments, reorder and delete pages, and password-protect your PDFs. This base subscription costs $80 for the year, with longer plants available at discount rates. The perpetual plan with unlimited use of PDF ELement forever, costs $130.
Wondershare PDFelement is available for both Windows and MacOS devices. The availability of certain software features will vary among these operating systems. Some features are only available in the Windows version.
Get PDFelement Pro FAQ What should you look for in a PDF editor? There are a few factors you should look for when choosing a PDF editor: File format compatibility and support.
Will it allow you to convert your document file into a PDF or vice versa? Which file formats does the PDF editor support and do they include the format of your particular document? This is particularly important for editing scanned documents.
Will the edited version of your document retain the same formatting as the original? Sometimes after editing a PDF via a third-party app or editor, you can lose the original formatting of your document, or the formatting will just look awkward and off. Make sure that the editor you choose is able to keep your newly edited document formatted the same.
Does it have a simple interface with a few features or a complex one with lots of editing options and which do you prefer? This depends on your actual needs. If you frequently edit PDFs and need access to lots of editing features, you may be better off using an app with lots of options, but a cluttered user interface. It may take longer for you to learn how to use it, but if you’re a frequent PDF editor, it may be worth it in the long run. If all you need is a quick edit here and there and don’t require complicated edits, you should opt for an editor that has a simple and easy-to-use interface, though you may sacrifice access to more detailed editing features.
Free or paid? Free editing apps tend to be best for those who don’t need to edit PDFs that often or don’t need access to a wide variety of editing options. Premium editing apps tend to be more worth it for those who regularly edit PDFs and need to do extensive and detailed editing. This is because paying a subscription or one-time fee will usually unlock more features or editing options that the free versions don’t have.
What are the benefits of using Microsoft Word to edit PDFs? There are lots of benefits to using Microsoft Word for editing PDFs: You’re probably already familiar with the software.
It’s likely that you’ve already used Microsoft Word before in school or at the office. So you won’t need to learn new editing software and it’ll be easier for you to use.
It’s probably already on your computer.
If you have a Microsoft 365 subscription, you already have Microsoft Word on your computer, which means you don’t need to download or pay for a new editing software.
You can easily convert it to a Word document for editing and then save it again as PDF.
Later versions of Word will allow you to convert your PDFs into Word documents for easy editing. Then you can save your newly edited Word document as a PDF.
It’s ideal for quick editing or text changes.
If all you need to do is change a few words or make other minor edits, Microsoft Word is a good option for those quick-and-dirty edits. If you need a PDF editor that can handle more complex edits or does a better job of maintaining your document’s original formatting, then you may want to look at other PDF editor options.
Want to learn more about editing PDF files? Here’s how to combine PDF files and how to convert a PDF into Excel.
Editors' Recommendations The best budget laptops for 2023 The best web browsers for 2023 Best Products Microsoft Computing Lenovo is probably one of the best-known laptop makers, especially since they have an incredibly wide variety of them to choose from. That also means they have an excellent selection of gaming laptops, so you can hone in on something that fits your budget. That's especially the case with the ongoing early Black Friday deals that are seeing laptops being cut down in price across the board. That said, Lenovo's selection of gaming laptops is too wide for us to include all their active deals here, so we've selected some of our favorites for both AMD and Intel CPUs. Also, if you're not sure of where to start, you should check out our list of best Lenovo laptops for some good options.
Best Lenovo Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals (AMD) Lenovo has a wider selection of AMD gaming laptops, which is great if you want to go with something AMD-powered. Unfortunately, there aren't any good deals on Lenovo laptops with both an AMD CPU and GPU, but the selection below is wide enough to pick something that fits your needs a bit better. And, if you want something with an RTX 4090 on a budget, then the AMD version is probably the cheapest for Lenovo.
Computing Printers are complicated machines featuring a mix of plastics, metals, electronics, and components, some of which are potentially flagged as hazardous waste. In 2023, it's more important than ever to be kind to the planet, and there are several environmentally safe ways to dispose of a printer.
Even the best printers in the world can reach the end of their life after several years if ink or toner is no longer available. A well-loved printer can suffer from accumulated wear and tear or damage from a catastrophic power surge that's too expensive to repair.
Computing It's Black Friday, which means it is time to give expensive tech products and fun, but expensive, toys a second look. The right Black Friday deals are there to take these categories of products down in price. Where these categories of expensive tech and cool toys collide is the Meta Quest 2, a VR headset, and sure enough, it has a good sale going on over at Amazon right now. Normally $300, its price has dropped by $51 down to just $249, one of the best VR headset Black Friday deals we've seen. The really good news? This deal is here now, so you don't have to wait to buy it like you will with the rest of your post Thanksgiving shopping. In fact, if you tap the button below and buy now, and with a little shipping luck, you might have it by Thanksgiving to play with your family.
Why you should buy the Meta Quest 2 The Meta Quest 2, which dominated Steam last year, is a VR headset that gives a full 360 field of view, allows you to experience 3D positional audio, and has over 500 compatible titles between gaming, fitness, and other experiences. If you're a Twitch viewer, you may recognize it from streamers playing Meta Quest 2 games like Beat Saber or the somewhat ironically humorous Among Us VR. It refreshes at 120Hz and gives each eye a view of 1832 x 1920p.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
