Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best processors in 2023: AMD and Intel CPUs duke it out By Jacob Roach and Monica J. White Close AMD and Intel have fought for supremacy for decades, duking it out in a bid to make the best processors you can buy. The competition is fierce, and that's a great thing for PC enthusiasts. In 2022, the list of the best CPUs is larger than ever and packed with options from Team Red and Team Blue.
Intel's flagship Core i9-13900K tops our list, but there are great options regardless of your budget or purpose.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
More More More More More More Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Intel Core i9-13900K The best processor you can buy Cheaper than AMD competition Support for 600-series motherboards and DDR4 Solid multi-core improvements Surprising gen-on-gen improvements High power demands Small gaming performance gains Why you should buy this: It tops performance charts in nearly every benchmark, and it's cheaper than the competition from AMD.
Who it's for: Enthusiasts who need high core counts and blistering clock speeds to accelerate video editing, compression, and other demanding tasks.
Why we chose the Intel Core i9-13900K: The dust launch has settled on the latest generations from AMD and Intel, and it was a much closer battle between the two than we anticipated. Intel came out on top with the Core i9-13900K, though. It doesn't have a dominating lead in every task, but it comes in around $100 cheaper than AMD's flagship chip.
Similar to last-generation's Core i9-12900K, the Core i9-13900K combines performance (P) cores and efficient (E) cores. Core counts are up this time around, though. You're getting eight P-cores designed on the new Raptor Cove microarchitecture, as well as 16 E-cores using the Gracemont architecture from the previous generation.
Those extra cores help accelerate demanding multithreaded tasks, which is why the Core i9-13900K managed an 8% lead over the Ryzen 9 7950X in Cinebench R23. The redesigned P-cores also help the Core i9-13900K outpace AMD's best by 12% in Cinebench's single-core test.
Across nearly all benchmarks, the Core i9-13900K tops the charts, aided in no small part by additional L2 cache and boosted clock speeds. It's the fastest processor you can buy, but more importantly, it comes in cheaper than AMD's Ryzen 9 7950X.
More Jacob Roach / Digital Trends AMD Ryzen 9 7950X The best AMD processor Off the charts CPU performance Solid gaming improvements Integrated graphics work for light games Works with most AM4 coolers DDR5 could bloat cost Why you should buy this: It's insanely fast, and it's set up to support AMD's future platforms for many years.
Who it's for: AMD fans who want the best of the best and don't mind spending a little extra.
Why we chose the AMD Ryzen 9 7950X: AMD lost the flagship battle this generation, but only by a thin margin. It's slightly slower than the Core i9-13900K, and it's about $100 more expensive. There's no denying the raw power of the Ryzen 9 7950X, though, which nearly matches the Core i9-13900K in most tests.
The processor delivers on its promises, offering a 31% jump in single-core performance and a 36% improvement in multi-core performance compared to the previous generation. It takes a slight backseat in some tasks compared to the Core i9-13900K, but only by razor-thin margins. And in some games, like Far Cry 6, the Ryzen 9 7950X is actually a bit faster.
Beyond the processor itself, the Ryzen 9 7950X introduces AMD's new AM5 platform. It used to be much more expensive, but thankfully, new motherboards and falling DDR5 prices make the upgrade a little more affordable. In addition, AMD says it will support AM5 until at least 2025 (and maybe beyond). That means it should be easy to upgrade to future Ryzen generations without buying a new motherboard.
Although the Ryzen 9 7950X isn't at the peak of performance, it's just a step behind. And with features like Smart Access Memory and distant platform support on offer, it's still a very attractive flagship CPU.
More Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Intel Core i5-14600K The best value Intel processor Big improvements in gaming performance Same pricing as previous generation Works with LGA1700 socket AI-assisted overclocking on 14900K Minor productivity improvements Still slower than AMD 3D V-Cache chips Still very power hungry Why you should buy this: It's one of the fastest CPUs you can buy for around $300.
Who it's for: Builders looking for the best bang for their buck.
Why we chose the Intel Core i5-14600K: It's tough beating the Core i5-14600K on pure value. This slot was previously held by Intel's Core i5-13600K, and if you already have that processor, it's best to stick with it. If you're upgrading from anything older, though, the Core i5-14600K is the CPU to buy.
It comes with the same core count as its last-gen counterpart, though with additional optimizations and slight bump to clock speed. The result is slightly better productivity performance and much better gaming performance. On top of that, Intel didn't raise the price of its Core i5 chip, so you're getting better performance for around the same price.
At the time of publication, the Core i5-14600K is only around $10 more expensive than the Core i5-13600K. We recommend checking the prices of the last-gen chip, however, because it still offers most of the performance and could be a better value depending on where prices go.
Jacob Roach / DigitalTrends AMD Ryzen 7 7800X3D The best gaming processor Chart-topping gaming performance Great value Solid multi-core and productivity performance AM5 is getting cheaper Weak single-core performance Why you should buy this: It's easily the best gaming processor in terms of value and performance.
Who's it for: Gamers who want top-notch performance without spending more than necessary.
Why we chose the AMD Ryzen 7 7800X3D: With the launch of the Ryzen 7 7800X3D, the 5800X3D finally has a worthy successor. This CPU is the fastest gaming CPU out there, beating Intel's Core i9-13900K by miles. In pure gaming scenarios, it also keeps up with the pricier Ryzen 9 7950X3D.
The Ryzen 7 7800X3D benefits from AMD's 3D V-Cache technology, and once again, it shows off the power of adding copious amounts of L3 cache on top of the chip. It sports a total of 104MB cache, which marks a drastic upgrade from the Ryzen 7 7700X, which only comes with 40MB.
In terms of core counts, AMD seems to have stuck with what worked well for it before. The processor has eight cores and 16 threads. The boost clock speed is considerably lower than in the Ryzen 7 7700X -- the 7800X3D maxes out at 5GHz. However, it still remains far superior in gaming tasks.
This chip is insane for gaming, but it drops off a cliff in productivity tasks when you compare it to the Ryzen 9 7950X3D. However, for pure gamers, this should not be a problem. In our internal testing, the CPU hit almost the same frames per second (fps) as the more expensive part -- 239.3 versus 239.5. If you just want a solid processor for gaming, save your money and go with this one.
More Image used with permission by copyright holder AMD Ryzen 5 5600X The best budget AMD processor Very inexpensive Excellent gaming and day-to-day performance High boost clock speed Six cores may limit some intense applications Why you should buy this: It's dirt cheap now that next-gen options are here, and it still holds up in many tasks.
Who it's for: Budget gamers looking for a fantastic processor that will hold up for a few more years.
Why we chose the AMD Ryzen 5 5600X: The Ryzen 5 7600X is here, so why recommend the Ryzen 5 5600X? Although AMD's latest processors offer the best performance, they're fairly expensive, considering the cost of DDR5 memory and a new motherboard. The Ryzen 5 5600X is not only cheaper on the platform side, but it's also about half the price of the next-gen option.
Right now, the Ryzen 5 5600X is somewhere around $180, which is absolutely insane considering the performance it offers. The newer chip offers better gaming performance, but only by a small margin. And the Ryzen 5 7600X doesn't come with a core advantage, packing in six cores just like the Ryzen 5 5600X.
Considering the price, the Ryzen 5 5600X is a steal. It's not the best of the best, but it's by far the best option around $180. There's nothing from Intel or AMD itself that can get close to the value the Ryzen 5 5600X is offering right now.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends AMD Ryzen 7 5800X3D The best last-gen processor for gaming The fastest gaming CPU on the market Solid thermal performance Works with AM4 motherboards Inexpensive Low power requirements No overclocking Lackluster general CPU performance Why you should buy this: It's still a monster of a gaming CPU, even with current-gen options making the rounds.
Who it's for: Gamers who don't need a lot of CPU power for other tasks.
Why we chose the AMD Ryzen 7 5800X3D: The Ryzen 7 5800X3D might be the first processor ever specifically built for gaming, and it blows everything else from the same generation out of the water. Why? A curious technology called 3D V-Cache.
For specs, the Ryzen 7 5800X3D is slightly worse than the base Ryzen 7 5800X. It comes with the same eight Zen 3 cores, but the clock speed is 200MHz slower, and you can't overclock the 3D-stacked part. The difference is that the Ryzen 7 5800X3D comes with an additional 64MB of L3 cache stacked on top of the processor.
It doesn't sound like a big deal, but extra L3 cache makes a big difference in games.
 The Ryzen 7 5800X3D beats everything while gaming, including the Core i9-12900KS that costs twice as much. It's also still competitive against newer CPUs from both Intel and AMD.
The Ryzen 7 5800X3D is one of the best gaming CPUs , and it only really takes a backseat to AMD's 3D V-Cache newcomers, the Ryzen 9 7950X3D and the Ryzen 7 7800X3D.
 Keep in mind that this is a pure gaming CPU. If you plan on doing intense video encoding or other productivity tasks, it's better to go with an AMD or Intel chip with a higher core count.
More Intel Intel Core i3-12100 The best processor under $150 Sells for around $100 Four performance cores Includes a CPU cooler No integrated graphics Why you should buy this: It's still a competent quad-core processor that's very inexpensive.
Who it's for: PC builders on a tight budget who want a solid processor for gaming and work without overspending.
Why we chose the Intel Core i3-12100F: It's tough finding CPUs under $150 in 2022, but the Core i3-12100F is a standout. It's part of the Alder Lake family, and unfortunately, Intel hasn't released a 13th-gen Raptor Lake chip to replace it. Even with the new CPUs out, though, the Core i3-12100F is a hell of a bargain.
The Core i3-12100F is a quad-core CPU that ranks among the best Intel processors you can buy. It doesn't come with a hybrid architecture, instead opting for four performance cores, but that doesn't hurt performance too much.
Gaming is certainly possible, even if it's a bit behind the six-core Ryzen 5 5600X, and day-to-day use is excellent. This is an entry-level processor, no doubt, but the Core i3-12100F still punches above what its price would suggest.
As we cover in our CPU buying guide , the F suffix on the Core i3-12100 means it doesn't come with integrated graphics. That saves you some money, but make sure to pair the CPU with one of the best graphics cards to have a usable machine.
More Image used with permission by copyright holder AMD Ryzen 7 5700G The best processor with integrated graphics Excellent integrated graphics Includes a CPU cooler Low power draw iGPU isn't powerful enough for AAA gaming Why you should buy this: It's one of the few good APUs that you can buy right now, and it's relatively cheap.
Who it's for: PC builders on a tight budget who want a solid processor for gaming and work without overspending.
Why we chose the AMD Ryzen 7 5700G: Gaming without a GPU is possible , but it's not an ideal experience. The Ryzen 7 5700G is an exception. It's a clear winner when it comes to integrated graphics on a CPU, allowing you to hit playable frame rates in popular titles at 1080p.
It will likely stay that way, too. Although Ryzen 7000 is here with integrated RDNA 2 graphics, they aren't powerful enough for gaming. The Ryzen 7 5700G is an APU with a full graphics engine under the hood.
Although you won't play the latest AAA games with the integrated GPU, you can still get by. Even better, the Ryzen 7 5700G has eight powerful cores and a 4.6GHz boost clock speed, so you can throw one of the best 1080p graphics cards in your PC and have a gaming monster.
AMD AMD Ryzen 5 7600 The best value AMD processor Suitable for gaming and productivity Excellent value High maximum clock speed Still just six cores No access to DDR4 Why you should buy this: It's a well-rounded CPU that doesn't cost an arm and a leg.
Who's it for: Gamers and other users in search of a good deal.
Why we picked the AMD Ryzen 5 7600: AMD made sure that the apple doesn't fall far from the tree with the Ryzen 5 7600. It's close to its predecessor in some ways, sporting the exact same core count, but it does offer a number of generational upgrades that make it a good way to future-proof your PC.
The Ryzen 5 7600 comes with six cores and 12 threads. It has a maximum clock speed of 5.2GHz. It's a pretty well-rounded processor, with solid gaming performance but also plenty of room for productivity. It's not going to beat some of this generation's heavyweights, but it's more than sufficient even for AAA gaming purposes.
The downside of it lies in the extra expense compared to the last-gen chip, and it's all due to AMD's new AM5 platform. This means a new motherboard if you're upgrading, and unfortunately, you have to stick with DDR5 memory due to a lack of DDR4 support.
This is why the previous-gen chip is still a very attractive choice — overall, you're looking at quite big savings if you stick to the previous generation. On the other hand, switching to AM5 now means plenty of room for upgrades going forward.
More Frequently Asked Questions The fastest processor you can buy right now is the Intel Core i9-13900K. It comes with 24 cores and high clock speeds, allowing it to rip through games and intense productivity applications.
AMD has its Ryzen 9 7950X, which is also very fast. It's slightly behind in performance, though, and it costs more than Intel's flagship.
Intel Core i7 and Core i5 processors are both excellent options. As the names suggest, i7 processors are faster and more powerful than i5 processors, and they're more expensive. They may not be the best choice for everyone, though.
For several generations, Intel has segmented six cores to its Core i5 processors and eight cores to its Core i7 processors. The two extra cores provide a performance boost, but they're not as important if you're gaming or running basic applications on your PC.
AMD and Intel are the main CPU manufacturers, and they tend to leapfrog each other every couple of years. Currently, Intel processors are the best option for raw performance, but AMD processors still provide great performance with much better power efficiency.
Editors' Recommendations The best tablets in 2023: top 11 tablets you can buy now 9 best monitors for 2023: tested and reviewed The best MacBook to buy in 2023 The best 2-in-1 laptops in 2023 These are the best mini-ITX motherboards in 2023 Gaming Best Products Intel Computing In an age where digital documentation often takes center stage, the need for a reliable and cost-effective printer remains undeniable. Whether it's for last-minute homework assignments, important work documents, or cherished family photos, finding the best affordable printer can save both money and time. In this article, we've listed some of the best affordable printers. Whether you're a student on a tight budget, a small business owner looking to cut costs, or simply someone seeking an affordable printing solution, we've got you covered with our top picks for budget-friendly printers that deliver quality without breaking the bank.
Computing There are several great options if you're searching for the best desktop computer, but Dell's XPS Desktop (8960) still takes the crown in 2023. It's highly flexible, decently priced, and comes with super powerful hardware. There are desktop PCs to pick from, though.
We've reviewed hundreds of desktop PCs from brands like Dell, Apple, Lenovo, and HP, but only a few truly stand out. These are the computers to look for when making your next upgrade. For our picks, we tried to balance price, performance, build quality, and our experience actually using the desktop. Make sure to read our explainer about how we review desktops to get an inside look at our evaluation process.
Computing You don't need to build your own computer to get the best gaming PC. While that still provides the best value, brands like Lenovo, Alienware, Acer, and Origin have gotten fiercely competitive in the past few years, and these companies are producing some of the best gaming desktops you can buy.
Our top pick is Lenovo's Legion Tower 7i Gen 8. It comes with the latest CPU and GPU options from Intel and Nvidia, and it's reasonably priced, especially considering its excellent thermal management. Plus, we have over half a dozen other picks for different budgets and gaming needs that we identified through our extensive collection of desktop reviews.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
