Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best VPNs you can get for Mac By Caleb Clark Close If you care about internet privacy, a VPN is an important component in keeping you safe online. A virtual private network (VPN) ensures that you remain anonymous online and stops your internet provider, or more malicious entities, from tracking your internet activity.
The best VPNs for Mac at a glance Surfshark ExpressVPN NordVPN TunnelBear Hotspot Shield ProtonVPN That alone gives you plenty of reason to get a VPN , but there are other benefits as well, such as accessing region-locked content. However, choosing a VPN isn’t always as straightforward as the overall need for one. Many VPN services come with different features and costs, so which one is best for you and your Mac? Here are our picks for the best VPNs for Mac, from the most affordable to feature-rich. For more on VPNs, check out our picks for the best VPN services overall. You can also read up on the latest MacBook models and the newly refreshed iMac.
The best VPNs for Mac at a glance Surfshark ExpressVPN NordVPN TunnelBear Hotspot Shield ProtonVPN Surfshark Image used with permission by copyright holder Why should you buy this? It’s affordable and extremely simple to use.
Who’s it for? People on a budget or those with lots of devices.
Why we picked Surfshark: Surfshark is a straightforward and affordable VPN for people looking for something super simple. It isn’t as robust as some of the other options on this list, but the VPN more than makes up for that with its low price and solid speed across the board. The annual plan will only cost you $60 per year.
While many VPNs limit you to a certain number of devices, Surfshark gives users unlimited devices in its subscription plan. That’s huge if you own a ton of devices in your household. Surfshark also has a no-log policy, so your internet activity is never logged. Furthering their security features is the Kill Switch, which stops your data from being exposed even if the VPN connection goes down.
This and other security and privacy features are what make Surfshark an incredible option for most people. The price is hard to beat, too.
ExpressVPN Image used with permission by copyright holder Why should you buy this? It’s the best VPN around by far.
Who’s it for? Those who are looking for plenty of security features and great customer service.
Why we picked Express VPN: ExpressVPN tops many VPN lists, and there are plenty of good reasons for that. At $13 a month (or $100 annually), it certainly isn’t the cheapest option, but for that price, buyers get one of the fastest VPNs on the market and a solid customer support service.
ExpressVPN is supported across five devices, which is a little limited, especially compared to Surfshark’s unlimited devices. However, the service does have a dedicated router app, which is a great workaround to get all the devices on your network connected to the VPN.
With over 3,000 servers in almost 100 countries, ExpressVPN is an excellent option for those looking for the speediest private connection possible.
NordVPN Image used with permission by copyright holder Why should you buy this? NordVPN has a lot of excellent features, a browser extension, and a great price.
Who’s it for? Anyone looking for a VPN that balances performance and value.
Why we picked NordVPN: NordVPN is probably the most well-known VPN out there, thanks in no small part to its massive marketing efforts and partnerships with popular influencers. However, marketing aside, NordVPN is also an excellent VPN in its own right.
It has the same support for standard VPN protocols, no activity logs, and support for multiple devices (up to six). NordVPN also has some other excellent security features like multi-factor authentication, a dedicated IP as well as IP masking, and browser extensions. That last one in particular is a great option for Chromebook users or anyone who doesn’t want to take up precious hard drive space.
You’ve probably heard of NordVPN already, but now you know it’s certainly worth the money and you can get a crazy good deal on it right now.
 NordVPN is $60 for the first year or $99 for two.
TunnelBear Image used with permission by copyright holder Why should you buy this? It’s insanely affordable and trustworthy.
Who’s it for? People who value transparency from VPNs.
Why we picked TunnelBear: Lower-end VPN services have a tough a shady reputation, particularly when it comes to activity logs. That can make it hard for a new VPN to make a name for itself, but TunnelBear stands out above all the rest thanks to its radical transparency. TunnelBear performs annual security audits and makes its results publicly available.
TunnelBear lets subscribers connect up to five devices with a single subscription, and that gives those devices unlimited secure browsing. TunnelBear has apps for Mac, iOS, as well as Android and Windows. The service also has a browser extension for simple connectivity.
TunnelBear is also the most affordable option on this list, at just $39 per year.
Hotspot Shield Image used with permission by copyright holder Why should you buy this? It’s one of the fastest VPNs on the market.
Who’s it for? Anyone who wants a lightning-fast connection.
Why we picked Hotspot Shield: If speed is your primary concern for a VPN, look no further than Hotspot Shield. It’s been consistently ranked as the fastest VPN out there, and it can even improve your Wi-Fi speeds by up to 26 percent in some cases. That’s thanks to the proprietary Hydra protocol Hotspot Shield uses to establish private connections.
Hotspot Shield lets users connect up to 5 devices and offers a 45-day money-back guarantee, which is 15 days longer than their competition offers. Hotspot Shield has a free version that you can try for basic connections, but the premium plan is an affordable $13 per month, or $20 per month for the family plan (up to 25 devices). The price for both of those significantly drops when if you opt to pay annually, totaling $96 and $144 per year, respectively.
ProtonVPN Image used with permission by copyright holder Why should you buy this? It has extra security features to protect your privacy.
Who’s it for? Journalists and other users who handle sensitive data that needs extra protection.
Why we picked ProtonVPN: ProtonVPN is another strong contender if privacy is a top priority for you. This is particularly true if you’re a journalist or anyone who handles sensitive data as part of your job.
What makes ProtonVPN stand out among its competitors is its Secure Core servers. VPNs can be easily compromised if the servers they route to are being spied on, and that is exactly why all traffic from ProtonVPN users is routed to one of its Secure Core servers first. These servers are placed in privacy-friendly countries, that way if another server is compromised your original IP is still not exposed. It’s an extra layer of protection that adds a lot of peace of mind.
ProtonVPN is also trustworthy thanks to the transparency of its open-source apps and the independent audits the company subjects itself to. It’s also pretty affordable, depending on the tier you opt for. ProtonVPN has a free version and paid versions ranging from $48 to $288 annually.
If you handle a lot of data or plan on torrenting or file sharing in any way, ProtonVPN is definitely one of the best options out there.
Editors' Recommendations The best handheld gaming PCs you can buy These are the best microphones for streaming you can buy MacBook Pro M3: Should you choose the M3, M3 Pro, or M3 Max? Shopping at Apple this holiday season? You should know this Apple’s M3 Max appears to keep up with Intel’s top desktop CPU Apple Mac Software VPN Computing When you buy one of the best MacBooks, you know that Apple has baked in a bunch of great trackpad gestures to help you navigate macOS quickly and easily. It’s one of the best ways the company’s hardware and software seamlessly work hand-in-hand.
There are a lot of macOS gestures, but there are a few that every Mac user should know, which we’ve rounded up here. Some you might have heard of, while others could be completely new to you. Either way, here’s our take on the best macOS trackpad gestures and how you use them.
How to open Launchpad Mobile The tablet market features a lot of great options, but Apple’s iPad lineup remains one of the most popular. It regularly places iPads amongst the best tablets and has many different models and sizes to suit many different needs. Apple has recently introduced a new line of processors, and with new tech often comes some great discounts on current tech. There are several Apple iPad deals taking place right now, and we’ve tracked them all down. From entry level iPads to the largest iPad Pro on the market, these are the best iPad deals available.
Apple iPad (2021) — $249, was $329 If you’re in search of a new iPad but want to avoid the price points of Apple’s high end options, the Apple iPad (2021) makes great bang for the buck. It’s a very capable iPad, as it has all-day battery life, the Apple A13 Bionic chip, and an immersive 10.2-inch Retina display. All of this makes the iPad a great device for creating with, for interacting with the digital world with, and for sitting down with for an evening of movie watching. This Wi-Fi-only model comes in Space Gray with 64GB of internal storage, which is typically plenty for most tablet users’ needs. This is not the newest design of the iPad, which means it still has a home button with Touch ID as part of its design.
Computing Lenovo is known as one of the best laptop brands because it's long been associated with reliability, so you should be looking at Lenovo laptop deals if you want a new workhorse for your day-to-day tasks. The offers that we've rounded up here range from budget devices to high-end machines, so there should be something for everyone. However, you should move quickly -- we're not sure how much time is remaining on these bargains, so if you see a deal that you like, we advise you to complete your purchase as soon as possible to be able to enjoy the savings.
Lenovo IdeaPad 1i -- $130, was $200 For one of the most affordable laptop deals that you can buy right now, go for the Lenovo IdeaPad 1i. You shouldn't expect powerful performance from such a cheap laptop, but it's enough for basic tasks like typing documents and doing online research with its Intel Celeron N4020 processor, integrated Intel UHD Graphics 600, and 4GB of RAM. The laptop features a 14-inch HD screen, and Windows 11 Home in S Mode in a 64GB eMMC that you can supplement with cloud storage services.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
