Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Guides Here’s how to combine PDF files the easy way By Kizito Katawonga Close From housing contracts to business deals, PDFs seep into just about every area of the internet as the official document format you need to get things done. But sometimes using the popular format means we need to convert, combine, or edit them. PDFs, however, can often pose quite a challenge when working with different operating systems.
How to combine PDFs: Use PDFgear How to combine PDFs on the web Whether you’re a Mac or Windows user, we’ve broken down the steps for combining your PDF files. Here is how to do it with whichever computer you have.
Difficulty Duration What You Need A PC (Windows or macOS) A third-party web-based tool like PDF Joiner A free desktop app called PDFgear How to combine PDFs: Use PDFgear Our current favorite method for merging PDFs is a free app called PDFgear. It's an easy to use, quick-to-install desktop app that allows you merge PDFs in just a few steps. No sign-ups or subscriptions required.
PDFgear is available for Windows, macOS, and iOS.
Note: The following instructions were tested and written based on the Windows version of PDFgear.
Step 1: Go to the PDFgear website and download the version of the app that is appropriate for your PC's operating system. Then install the app.
Step 2: Once it is installed, open up PDFgear. You'll then be presented with its main menu screen which displays all of PDFgear's PDF editing tools. We're only interested in combining PDFs right now, so select the Merge & split tab.
screenshot/Anita George / Digital Trends Step 3: Then select the Merge PDF button. Then on the Merge PDF screen that appears, select Add files.
Step 4: Choose the PDF files you want to combine and then select Open.
Step 5: Once your selected files appear in the PDFgear app, look for the Output file name text box. In that text box, edit the name of your soon-to-be-merged PDF file to whatever you like.
Step 6: Then select the red Merge button.
Once the merging of your selected PDFs is complete, you'll automatically be shown your new PDF's file location. From here, you can open and view your newly merged PDF.
screenshot/Anita George / Digital Trends How to combine PDFs on the web There are scores of free, web-based tools that will allow you to merge PDF files — and that’s good news for you. If you need to merge files quickly, this may be the best option since these programs don’t really care where your PDF files come from or where they’re going. They don’t require installing any additional programs either. They can have strict size limits, though.
Below are two popular tools for merging PDF files, but keep in mind that they both do the same thing. If you run into formatting issues with one tool, then try another.
PDF Joiner: PDF Joiner is ideal for all sorts of file format shifts and changes. Of course, you can combine PDFs with this tool. But you can also convert your finalized document to other document or image formats. If you’re trying to condense many different formats into one, this tool functions as a great alternative to pulling your hair out. The only limitation is that the software only allows you to work with 20 files at once. Depending on your needs (and the frequency of your file mergers), this might not be enough.
Smallpdf: Smallpdf’s best feature is that it’s easy to upload files straight from Dropbox or Google Drive , which is particularly helpful if you work on collaborative projects. We’re also fans of how the Smallpdf merge tool offers professional-grade performance. You can see your PDF while you’re creating it, so you’ll know exactly how it’s going to turn out. One drawback is that you can only process up to two documents per day for free.
There are so many different ways to merge PDFs that you might not know which will best suit your needs; fortunately these work with every OS, so you can try them all. With so many options for combining PDF files, you don’t have to struggle anymore. No matter what OS you’re running (or how many files you need to merge), there’s a tool to make it easier.
Editors' Recommendations 4 easy ways to take a screenshot on a Windows PC How to downgrade from macOS Sonoma to an older version How to get Photoshop for free I love Macs. But here are 5 reasons I keep coming back to Windows Common macOS Sonoma problems and how to fix them Apple How-To Guides Mac Microsoft Microsoft Windows Software Windows Guides Computing When you want to see multiple tabs on one macOS screen without everything getting jumbled, turn to the Split View feature. Split screens allow you to have two or more sections, each displaying a different app. These sections allow you to work more efficiently and see more information without having a second screen.
In newer versions of macOS, there’s a very easy split-screen mode called Split View that anyone with an updated Mac can use. In this guide, we’ll teach you how to use Split View on a Mac to make the most of your system.
Computing Apple's macOS Sonoma (also known as macOS 14) has a bunch of exciting new features, including game mode, desktop widgets, and a new presenter mode for video calls. Is your Mac ready for it? If so, you'll want to download it as soon as possible to take advantage of all the new features and security enhancements. Make sure you back up your most important information before you do, but once you're ready, here's how to download macOS 14.
Computing I've reviewed nearly all of the best laptops, and when I get my hands on a new one, I instinctively adjust some settings to ensure that I'm meeting a standard configuration. I need to make sure every laptop is set up the same way, as closely as possible, to ensure my benchmarks and testing are consistent. While those settings aren't relevant for most users, the process has given me some insight into how various settings impact day-to-day use.
So, when I start using a laptop for real work, I have a core group of settings that I change to fit my workflow. I'll outline those here, for both Windows 11 and MacOS. It's not a one-size-fits-all scenario, but hopefully, some of these changes will make your computing more efficient and enjoyable.
Start with power management In Windows 11, the first place I go in the Settings app is System and then Power & battery. Windows defaults to a very short screen-on time for both battery use and when plugged in, and I adjust those in Screen and sleep to an hour and three hours, respectively, for turning off the screen and putting the laptop to sleep. If you'd rather your screen turn off, but the laptop remain awake, then adjust accordingly. And, my times may not work for you. I don't often keep my laptops sitting there with the display open, and they go to sleep when I close the lid.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
