Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing How to use FaceTime’s SharePlay feature in MacOS Monterey By Alex Blake Close SharePlay is a new feature in MacOS Monterey that lets an entire FaceTime group watch or listen to the same content. That’s great for a shared movie night when you can’t all join in person, for example, or if you want everyone to hear the latest track from your favorite artist.
Step 1: How to share movies, music, and more Step 2: Shared controls Step 3: Receiving content Step 4: Menu bar controls A few things to note SharePlay requires MacOS Monterey, iOS 15, or iPadOS 15.
 It likely won’t make it into the initial launch of these systems this fall but should come in an update shortly after release. In this article, we are going to show you how to use SharePlay in MacOS Monterey. If you don’t have it yet, make sure you read our guide on how to download MacOS Monterey to your Mac.
At the moment, you can only share content from Apple’s TV or Music apps.
 However, Apple is working on an API that will allow third-party apps and services like Disney+ and HBO Max to offer SharePlay for their own content.
Step 1: How to share movies, music, and more Image used with permission by copyright holder Launch FaceTime on your Mac, then open its settings by clicking FaceTime > Preferences in the menu bar. Click the SharePlay tab, then make sure the SharePlay checkbox is ticked.
Start a FaceTime call, then bring up content you want to share in Music or TV. Once the content is playing, everyone on the call will get an option to join the SharePlay session. In iOS 15 , for example, an alert will appear in FaceTime saying Join SharePlay , with an Open button to the right.
Step 2: Shared controls Image used with permission by copyright holder Each person who has joined a SharePlay session can control the playback of the content. For example, pressing the pause button will pause it for all participants. When you are ready to finish sharing, click the SharePlay icon in the top-right of your Mac screen, then click the X button next to the shared content. You can choose to stop sharing the content with everyone, or to just end its playback for yourself.
Step 3: Receiving content Image used with permission by copyright holder Experiencing content sent by someone else during a FaceTime call is straightforward too. If you’re sent content during a call, an alert will ask if you want to Join SharePlay for the content in question. If you have previously done this and told your Mac to automatically join SharePlay sessions (see step 4), a notification will appear in the top-right of your screen telling you content has been shared. Hover your mouse pointer over the notification. If someone is sharing content from the Music app, for example, you will see a View button. Click it and the relevant app will open with the content playing.
Step 4: Menu bar controls Image used with permission by copyright holder When the content starts playing, a SharePlay icon will appear in your Mac menu bar, indicating you are currently sharing content. Click it to see what is being shared. Hover over the content and an X appears, which you can click to end the playback. Click the SharePlay icon on the right to see a handful of options, including whether your Mac should automatically play shared content or ask first.
A few things to note SharePlay might not work if people on your call are in a different region, due to some content being region locked.
As well as that, you cannot share content that other users do not have access to. For example, you can share free episodes and content from the TV app, but shows that require an Apple TV+ membership cannot be shared with people who do not have a paid subscription.
Editors' Recommendations Common macOS Sonoma problems and how to fix them Apple’s FaceTime may soon give you gesture control superpowers Common macOS Ventura problems and how to fix them Thanks, I hate it: Someone installed macOS on a Steam Deck Apple could launch a Frankenstein iPad Pro that runs macOS Apple Apple Apple iPad Mac Software Computing The latest version of Apple’s Mac operating system, dubbed macOS Ventura, could be just a week away from launch. That’s according to reporter Mark Gurman’s Power On newsletter, where it’s claimed that the OS could see the light of day as soon as the last week of October.
However, there’s bad news if you’ve been holding out for the next version of the 14-inch and 16-inch MacBook Pro, as Gurman believes these laptops won’t be released until some point in November.
Computing Apple unveiled the upcoming Stage Manager as part of MacOS Ventura during WWDC 2022. The feature, created to improve productivity and make it easier to switch between groups of apps, certainly seems like it could become a staple.
Although Stage Manager seems to be all-new, it seems that its concept has been around for much longer than we thought. According to an ex-Apple developer, Stage Manager was first created all the way back in 2006. How much has it changed since then? Computing Apple's next major operating system, MacOS Ventura, is coming out this fall and is already in a developer beta. You might be wondering if the new OS will work with your Mac so you can enjoy cool features like Stage Manager and Continuity Camera.
The good news is that if you have a Mac device from the last five years, you should be good to go. But we do have a look at all Macs that work (and don't work) with MacOS Ventura right here for you.
MacBook Pro and MacBook Air Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
