Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best MacBook Pro bags By Caleb Clark Close MacBooks are expensive investments, so naturally, you should get a bag to safely carry yours around. Whether you are commuting for work or you're a student, you will want a bag that is sturdy, water-resistant, and roomy enough to fit the MacBook and its accessories.
 Here are some of the best MacBook Pro bags you can buy to keep your computer safe from the elements.
More Image used with permission by copyright holder Timbuk 2 Authority Laptop Backpack The best bag overall Made from recycled materials Air mesh keeps your back cool as you carry it Tons of storage A bit expensive Why you should buy this: It's a roomy, durable, and eco-friendly backpack.
Who it's for: Anyone looking for a premium backpack to carry anything and everything for a long time to come.
Why we picked the Timbuk2 Authority: Whether you need a bag for traveling, school, or your daily commute, the Authority Laptop Backpack from Timbuk2 will work for you. This premium backpack is a great choice for just about everyone because of its many pockets and comfortable straps.
The Authority has two main compartments, and the laptop compartment can hold up to a 17-inch laptop , so it will work no matter which MacBook you have. The larger compartment also has a series of pockets ideal for holding notebooks, pens, sunglasses, and anything else you might need to carry with you. There’s also a mesh pocket on the side that is perfect for carrying a water bottle.
Both the back panel and straps are built with an air mesh to help prevent excessive sweating while you are lugging it around. The straps are also padded to make carrying the bag comfortable. The Authority is made from 100% recycled pre-consumer nylon, so the bag is environmentally friendly as well.
It’s not the cheapest option on this list, but the premium build quality and universal appeal make the Timbuk2 Authority a worthwhile investment.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Peak Design Everyday Messenger Best messenger bag Roomy interior for laptops, cameras, and other gear Can be worn as a sling or over the shoulder Premium construction Magnetic latch No side pockets Expensive Why you should buy this: It's a surprisingly roomy messenger that can fit just about anything.
Who it's for: People on the go who need to carry a lot of things, MacBook included.
Why we picked the Peak Design Everyday Messenger: Messenger bags are excellent travel companions, and this option from Peak Design is one of the most versatile options available. The Everyday Messenger has Mag Latch hardware with four magnetic points of contact. This lets you adjust where the bag actually closes, allowing you to pack in a lot of contents while still being able to close the bag.
There are also a variety of pockets for laptops, tablets, and even extra pairs of clothes. The roomy compartment is also ideal for photographers who need to carry their camera and a couple of lenses. The exterior of the bag is made of recycled 400D nylon to keep the bag’s contents safe and dry.
The laptop sleeve can fit a 13-inch device , but you should still be able to fit in the 14-inch MacBook Pro because it has a similar form factor to the 13-inch model. This isn't a good fit for the 16-inch MacBook Pro, however.
The v2 Everyday Messenger has a reinforced strap for added comfort. It can also be adjusted so you can carry the bag at your side or over the shoulder. The Everyday Messenger is one of the more expensive bags on this list, but its versatility and improved design make it the best messenger bag option around.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Mosiso Laptop Sleeve Bag Best sleeve for 14-inch MacBook Pro Water-resistant Lots of colors and styles available Additional pocket for tablet/phone Cannot fit 16-inch MacBook Pro Why you should buy this: It's an affordable and water-resistant sleeve to protect your MacBook Pro.
Who it's for: Business professionals or people who need a protective case without lugging around a bag.
Why we picked the Mosiso 14-inch sleeve: If you are just looking for a simple sleeve to carry your MacBook, this option from Mosiso is an affordable option. This neoprene sleeve will fit comfortably in any briefcase or backpack, and it will protect your MacBook from any scratching that might occur. The sleeve is also lined with foam padding to protect the computer from bumps and drops.
It’s designed for 13-inch laptops, but it can comfortably fit the 14-inch MacBook Pro as well as the latest M2 MacBook Air because of their similar form factors. There are also a ton of colors to choose from, so you can get a sleeve that perfectly matches your style.
The Mosiso also includes a small carrying bag for charging bricks, cables, and any other accessories for your MacBook.
If you’re looking for something simple and affordable to carry your MacBook, this is the option for you.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Tomtoc 360 Protective Laptop Shoulder Bag The best bag for the 16-inch MacBook Pro Corner bumpers to reduce shock damage Extra pockets to carry accessories Retractable handle Plastic D-rings make strap flimsy Why you should buy this: It's a tough and affordable bag designed to resist drop and fall damage.
Who it's for: Anyone who will be traveling with the 16-inch MacBook Pro.
Why we picked the Tomtoc 360 Shoulder Bag: If you have the 16-inch MacBook Pro, you will want to get a bag that offers maximum protection. The best option for that is the 360 protective laptop shoulder bag from Tomtoc. The Tomtoc 360 has thick interior padding to protect the MacBook from drops and falls, and the ConerArmor bumpers offer further protection from that type of damage. The materials are also water-resistant to protect the bag’s contents from rain or accidental spills.
The 360 comes with a large main pocket for your computer and two smaller pockets for accessories, charging bricks, and cables. The bag can either be carried with the briefcase handle or removable shoulder strap. The Tomtoc 360 also comes in a variety of colors, so you can find one that matches your style.
The Tomtoc 360 is a little less than $40, which makes it a great deal for anyone looking for a secure and convenient bag for their 16-inch MacBook Pro.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Matein Travel MacBook Pro Backpack The best budget MacBook Pro bag Very affordable Plenty of room for computer and clothes alike Several different colors and styles available A bit too much interior room for everyday use Why you should buy this: It's a spacious and affordable backpack that's great for travel.
Who it's for: Anyone who plans on traveling a lot or simply needs a cheap and spacious backpack.
Why we picked the Matein Travel Backpack: If you’re looking for a large backpack to carry your MacBook but don’t want to break the bank, this Matein backpack is the best option for you. This backpack is designed with travel in mind, but that also makes it a great option for carrying a large MacBook around. The Matein is made of water-resistant polyester, and its large main compartment is perfect for packing clothes or camera gear. The main compartment also has a pocket that’s perfect for slipping your computer or accessories into.
The front has two pockets that are ideal for storing your phone, notebooks, or anything else you might carry with you. The Matein also comes with a toiletry bag that’s great for carrying the essentials, and it can also double as a dedicated case for chargers and accessories.
If you’re looking for a versatile bag or plan on doing a lot of traveling with your MacBook, the Matein is a great option.
More Image used with permission by copyright holder Timbuk2 Project The best premium option Luxurious waxed canvas Luggage pass-through Fits up to 16-inch MacBook Pro Not much color variety Why you should buy this: It's a premium backpack to complement your premium laptop.
Who it's for: Anyone looking for a compact yet spacious backpack.
Why we picked the Timbuk2 Project: If you want a backpack that feels as luxurious as your expensive MacBook, look no further than the Timbuk 2 Project. This backpack has been designed with everything in mind, and it’s easily the most premium backpack on the market right now. It can fit up to 16-inch laptops, so the 16-inch MacBook Pro will fit perfectly. The backpack is comprised mostly of waxed canvas, which makes it water-repellant. It also has leather trims that heighten the overall aesthetic of the backpack.
The Timbuk2 Project has four compartments. The first one is for your laptop, and there is a larger compartment for carrying clothes or other items. The front pocket is perfect for carrying notebooks, pens, and other accessories, like charging bricks or cables. There is also a zippered side pocket that is ideal for your phone.
Despite being able to carry a 16-inch laptop, the Project is also very compact. That’s great if you don’t want to lug around a huge backpack, especially if all you carry is your computer anyway.
It’s $229, but that price is to be expected for such a high-end backpack.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Lowepro ProTactic BP 450 AW II The best rugged option Rugged and tactical design Tons of room for cameras and expensive equipment Additional straps and pouches for hiking Expensive, even by premium standards Why you should buy this: It's the most rugged and durable bag you can get. Perfect for hiking and offroading.
Who it's for: Photographers and offroaders who need to protect all their gear.
Why we picked the Lowepro ProTactic 450 AW II: If you plan on doing a lot of offroading or want the most protection for your MacBook, the Lowepro ProTactic BP 450 AW II is the best option for you. It’s an expensive option, but the robust protection you get may be worth the price, especially if you’re carrying a lot of expensive equipment like cameras.
The BP 450 AW II holds up to a 15-inch laptop, but the 16-inch MacBook Pro should fit just fine. The laptop compartment also has a variety of pockets for chargers and cables. The backpack also comes with a storage compartment designed for a DSLR camera.
This durable bag is resistant to rain, snow, dust, and sand, so it’s the perfect companion no matter where you are going. It also has a sternum strap and a convertible utility belt, which makes it great for hiking.
If you’re looking for the most protection while you travel, or you’re a photographer looking for a backpack tailor-made for you, the ProTactic BP 450 AW II is a no-brainer.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Herschel Pop Quiz backpack The best for style variety Lots and lots of colors and styles to choose from Fits up to 16-inch MacBook Pro Dividers and pockets to store a variety of items No exterior water bottle pocket Why you should buy this: It's a roomy and stylish backpack.
Who it's for: Students looking for a backpack that expresses their personality.
Why we picked the Herschel Pop Quiz: If you’re a student or someone looking to express themselves with their backpack, the Pop Quiz line from Herschel may be just what you need. The backpack is affordable, starting at $70, but it can still fit up to the 16-inch MacBook Pro in a relatively compact form factor. The bag is made of polyester and has a waterproof zipper, so your contents should be safe even if you’re caught in the rain.
The Pop Quiz has a 22-liter main compartment, perfect for carrying textbooks or notebooks, and the front pocket can easily house cables and chargers. The padded straps and air mesh back also make commuting and carrying the bag a more comfortable experience.
The best thing about the Pop Quiz, though, is the variety of styles it comes in. If you are looking for something to stand out on campus or show off your personality, this bag is an excellent way to do it.
Editors' Recommendations Best Black Friday MacBook deals: Get an Apple laptop from $505 Best iPad deals: Save on 10.2-inch iPad, iPad Pro, and more There’s an early Black Friday deal on the Apple Mac Mini with M2 The best mouse for Mac for 2023 The best MacBook to buy in 2023 Apple Best Products Laptops Mac Computing You may have missed Amazon's returning Prime Day deals from Prime Big Deal Days 2023, but you still have the chance to get the 15-inch Apple MacBook Air M2 for much cheaper than usual from Best Buy. Instead of $1,299, it's down to just $1,049, for savings of $250. It's still not cheap, but Apple fans know that you should take any opportunity to get the brand's products with a discount, because MacBook deals don't happen too often. You need to hurry with your purchase though, as we don't expect the offer to last much longer.
Why you should buy the 15-inch Apple MacBook Air M2 The Apple MacBook Air M2 is featured in our roundup of the best MacBooks as the top budget choice. For a relatively affordable price compared to Apple's other laptops, you'll experience the power of Apple's M2 chip, which is so efficient that it enables a battery life of up to 18 hours, and a fanless design that keeps the device completely silent while it's in use. The version of the Apple MacBook Air M2 with the gorgeous 15.3-inch Liquid Retina display comes with an 8-core CPU and a 10-core GPU that can complete tough tasks without any issues, 8GB of RAM for smooth performance, and a 256GB SSD for ample storage space.
Computing With the Amazon Prime Big Deals Day event now underway, this is the perfect time to buy a MacBook Air M1 at a fantastic price. It's just one of the many Prime Day deals going on right now to mark the start of the sales event. Buy the Apple MacBook Air M1 today and you'll pay just $750 so you save $249 or 25% off the regular price of $999. It's one of the more affordable ways of buying a MacBook although we have plenty of other Prime Day MacBook deals to check out too if you want to invest more in your new laptop. The Apple MacBook Air M1 may not be the latest tech any more but it's still more than powerful enough for most people to use it and enjoy it. Read on while we take you through what else you need to know about it before you tap the buy button this sales season.
Why you should buy the Apple MacBook Air M1 Back when it was first launched, we described the Apple MacBook Air M1 as "fast, fanless, and absolutely fantastic". It remains all of those things. We've broken down the differences between the M2 and M1 and while the newer chip is better, it's less of a substantial difference than you'd think.
Computing Apple has a reputation for having expensive devices, so it's always great when we find a good deal on an Apple device, whether it's iPhone deals or iPad deals. Luckily, Amazon's Prime Big Deal Days event is shaping up to be a big deal, with lots of great deals on MacBooks across the board. And, while you can certainly wait until Prime Day itself on October 10th, we're already seeing some amazing MacBook Deals that you can take advantage of right now, and they're likely to still be great deals even by Prime Day.
We're also happy to see that there are great deals across retailers, and not just at Amazon. In fact, we're seeing Prime Day deals on MacBooks at places like Best Buy and Walmart, so if you have any special deals, cards, or coupons you can take advantage of, you're very much in luck. In fact, we're already seeing retailers undercut each other on great MacBook deals, which means more savings for you. So, without wasting too much time, let's jump right into some of the best deals we've found so far during Prime Day 2023.
Today's best Prime Day MacBook deals MacBook Air 11.6-inch (2015) -- from $159 Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
