Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Products The best new MacOS Monterey features Apple just announced By Arif Bacchus Close Apple is fresh off the announcement of a developer preview of MacOS Monterey at WWDC 2021 and there’s a lot to be excited about. If you’re well invested in the Apple ecosystem of devices, then Apple has your back with this new operating system.
Universal Control AirPlay to Mac A revamped Safari Shortcuts Other features The latest MacOS release brings lots of new features that are all designed to help your iPad and Mac play nicely together. Here’s a look at the best new Mac OS Monterey features to try out once the public beta opens up next month — or with the developer preview that opened up today on June 7.
Universal Control When Apple launched MacOS Catalina in 2019, the operating system picked up the new “Sidecar” ability to use an iPad as a secondary display for your Mac. Several years later, Apple is again playing into that interoperability with the addition of Universal Control in MacOS Monterey.
Universal Control adds more value to your iPad or your subsequent MacOS devices. Instead of plugging multiple keyboards into your devices or using a mouse or keyboard that supports pairing multiple devices, productivity power is now natively in your hands.
With a single mouse and keyboard, you can move between a Mac and an iPad seamlessly with no dongles or extra setup required. You’ll even be able to drag content between devices, saving you the need for an email, or a service like DropBox, or even Apple’s own iCloud.
AirPlay to Mac Image used with permission by copyright holder In addition to Universal Control, the other big highlight of MacOS Monterey is AirPlay to Mac. If you ever wanted to cast a movie or a song to your MacBook, then you know how difficult it can be. You need an AirPlay server to use in between your devices to handle the connection.
Well, Airplay to Mac finally solves that. With the click of a button (as long as your devices are on the same Wi-Fi network) you’ll be able to send the content from your iPhone or your iPad right to your Mac machine.
Perhaps it’s a movie or perhaps you want to share your screen. It’s now quite easy.
Then there’s the audio side of AirPlay to Mac. No longer do you have to invest in an expensive speaker. If you have a new MacBook or iMac with high-fidelity speakers, then you can cast your audio to that device without the need for cables. Your Mac can become your own secondary speaker for your iPhone! A revamped Safari Image used with permission by copyright holder Last year’s WWDC saw the reveal of a revamped Safari, and this year, things are getting even better. While Google and Microsoft have updated Chrome and Edge regularly through the past year, Safari has lagged behind in the visual department. With MacOS Monterey, though, Safari is catching up with a few new features.
The first of those is a new tab design. A bit like what Mozilla has done with Firefox version 89 , Safari now puts more emphasis on the webpage, rather than the tab itself. The tab bar takes the color of the webpage you’re on and combines the toolbar and search field into a more compact design. It’s a clean and concise experience to help you stay focused on what matters most.
The new tab design isn’t all. Like Microsoft’s “Collections” feature in Edge, Safari has a new way to follow you where you go. It’s known as “Tab Groups.” With Tab Groups, you’ll be able to save and manage your tabs across Mac, iPhone, and iPad. You no longer have to worry about emailing or bookmarking links. It’s just natural.
Shortcuts Image used with permission by copyright holder Last on the list is Shortcuts. This is a feature familiar to iOS and iPadOS users, but it now comes to MacOS, too. Designed to help make doing common tasks on your MacBook much easier, Apple is planning to push Shortcuts as an alternative to the Automater app, and it might be worth it.
According to Apple, the Shortcuts app on MacOS will help you “achieve peak productivity.” With the app, you can select pre-built actions for sharing files, making GIFs, converting files, and a lot more. You even can customize the shortcuts for your own workflow, as it is integrated across the Finder, in Spotlight, and works with Siri. But don’t worry, it also will let you import from Automator, too.
Other features We just hit the highlights, but there are many other features in MacOS Monterey that are worth trying out. Lower Power mode, FaceTime support for spatial audio and voice isolation, new privacy features in the Mail app, and Live Text detection in photos are just a few. Of course, there is the developer side of things, too. These include the introduction of TestFlight on MacOS, so developers can beta test apps with the general public more easily.
If you’re a developer, you can download MacOS Monterey today by going to Apple’s developer program website.
 The general public, meanwhile, will be able to start testing Monterey next month, followed by a full rollout in the fall.
Editors' Recommendations All the best macOS Sonoma tips and tricks you need to know The MacBook Pro M3 doesn’t have a memory problem — it has a pricing problem 5 things you should never do with your MacBook How to watch Apple’s ‘Scary Fast’ Mac launch event if you missed it Why the MacBook Air is still stuck on the M2 Apple Apple WWDC Features Laptops Mac Software Computing It's not often that MacBook Pros get new color options. But with this most recent update to M3 chips, the MacBook Pro will add Space Black, a color that first appeared on the iPhone, to the mix. I was shown an early preview of the new color ahead of the "Scary Fast" launch event, and I have to say: I'm smitten.
This new Space Black is not true black, of course. In truth, it's a slightly darker gray than Space Gray, which it replaces. And it's a good thing this isn't true black. Because remember, this is aluminum, and Apple isn't just slapping a coating or layer of paint on here like so many laptop manufacturers do when making true black aluminum laptops. These laptops, such as most gaming laptops or even something like the Surface Laptop, tend to scratch easily and fade over time.
Computing There’s no doubt that Apple had plenty to unveil at its “Scary Fast” event on October 30, with new devices galore revealed over the show’s duration. For what was an unexpected show, Apple managed to pack in an awful lot.
Despite that, plenty of rumored products never made the cut. That means they could still be in the works, or perhaps were simply dropped by Apple before release. Either way, we’ve rounded up everything that was rumored for the show but never made an appearance -- read on to see what didn’t make it.
M3 MacBook Pro 13-inch Computing Apple's unexpected "Scary Fast" event has wrapped, and the 30-minute presentation was packed full of announcements. Headlining the showcase was Apple's new M3 chip, which is showing up in a variety of devices in just a week from now.
We have the lowdown on everything Apple announced at its unprecedented fall event, which kicks off the third generation of Apple's silicon with two major product updates.
M3 family of chips Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
