Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing News Logitech made a Mac-specific MX Master 3. Is it the ultimate mouse for Mac? By Alex Blake Close The Logitech MX Master 3 has been a popular mouse for Mac enthusiasts, but now Logitech has launched a model specifically made for Apple compatibility. The MX Master 3 for Mac costs $99 and brings some Mac-specific details and features that its predecessors lacked. Logitech also launched a corresponding keyboard, the $99 MX Keys for Mac.
Logitech MX Master 3 for Mac The MX Keys for Mac Just one problem These were already fantastic Logitech peripherals. But do these Apple-specific versions make for the ultimate Mac accessories? Logitech MX Master 3 for Mac Image used with permission by copyright holder The MX Master 3 for Mac has many of the same features as the regular MX Master 3 , including its horizontal scroll wheel and ergonomic shape. It has a few new features, though, including improved Bluetooth connectivity and a space gray color scheme. There are also a range of predefined app-specific shortcuts that take advantage of Mac behaviors.
One of its best features is the gesture control button located just below where your thumb rests. Hold it down and swipe the mouse to one side and it will perform a native Mac function. For example, you can hold it and swipe up for Mission Control, mirroring the MacOS trackpad gesture.
 This is a great example of a company really understanding how the Mac works — including its pain points — and then crafting an accessory based on that knowledge. Outside of setting up your own custom gestures, accessing Mission Control from the mouse is something we have only seen on Apple’s own Magic Mouse.
After spending a week or so with the mouse, I grew to love some of its more clever features. For example, the scroll wheel that automatically switches from ratchet clicks to free-flowing spins if you start scrolling quickly. The horizontal scroll wheel has some genius applications (side-scrolling in spreadsheets or increasing the brush size in Photoshop, for example), and some that feel a bit more average (zooming in on word processor documents comes to mind). It’s a neat idea, though, and a handy addition nonetheless.
The MX Keys for Mac Image used with permission by copyright holder The MX Keys is a full-size keyboard with a numeric keypad and extra function keys on the right. It comes in a space gray and black color scheme to match Apple’s aesthetic tastes, as well as a proper Mac layout. That includes Control, Option, and Command keys. Although the regular MX Keys was designed for both Windows and MacOS, using split markings on some keys, the MX Keys for Mac avoids the confusion and gives you the standard Mac layout you’re already familiar with.
But there is much more to it than just a Mac layout. It features a clever backlighting system that uses an ambient light sensor to detect whether you actually need the backlighting — and if you do, how strong it should be. Logitech estimates the MX Keys will last 10 days on a single charge with the backlighting on, or up to five months with it off.
The MX Keys is super-comfortable to use, and I felt right at home almost immediately. The keys are weighted just right, and they almost never bottomed out and hit the low point of the mechanism. There is no fatigue that you would get with the MacBook’s old butterfly keyboard , and it is far quieter than a mechanical keyboard while still offering a satisfying click. If you have struggled for years with the butterfly keyboard on a MacBook — or just want a more affordable alternative to Apple’s $149 full-size Magic Keyboard — the MX Keys should be on your shortlist.
Just one problem The Logitech Options app ties everything together. It lets you override the default mouse button actions with your own shortcuts on an app-by-app basis, which can make some of the more lackluster defaults a bit more useful. It’s easy to use, if a little cluttered.
Options has a feature called Flow, which is meant to let you use the mouse and keyboard on two computers (including Mac and PC) at once, with the idea being that you simply move the mouse pointer from one screen to the other, much like a built-in KVM switch. It is a great idea, and works with the keyboard too — copy a file on your Mac with Command-C, move the mouse across to your PC, then press Control-V on Windows, and the file will paste into place.
The problem? I had a lot of trouble setting this up. Despite following the instructions exactly, Flow simply refused to find my PC. I’ve reached out to Logitech for help, and it’s likely an issue that can be resolved.
Despite my setup woes, the new mouse and keyboard from Logitech are worthwhile purchases. The MX Keys for Mac is supremely comfy to use, while the MX Master 3 for Mac is where the real brains lie. If you have been looking for a way to revamp your Mac setup, these two accessories could be the answer.
Editors' Recommendations All the best macOS Sonoma tips and tricks you need to know I love Macs. But here are 5 reasons I keep coming back to Windows Common macOS Sonoma problems and how to fix them This dangerous new Mac malware steals your credit card info How to take a screenshot on your Mac: the best methods in 2023 Apple Apple Mac Software Tech News Computing Many Mac owners swear that keyboard shortcuts help simplify their lives. If you’re new to a Mac, learning all the available keyboard shortcuts can be a real challenge. Quite a few of these shortcuts will now work in iPadOS, too, thanks to the Magic Keyboard available to iPad Pro users.
We’ve put together a list of the most important shortcuts you should know. You can also take a look at our list of the best Mac apps for even more Apple shortcuts.
The most important shortcuts Computing The more you use Apple’s macOS operating system, the more you come across amazing little tools and features that you’ve somehow never heard of, yet which can totally blow your mind. I’ve been using Macs for over a decade, yet I just stumbled upon a killer feature I never knew existed -- and I absolutely love it.
That feature is called Quick Actions, and you’ll need macOS Mojave or later to give it a try. The name is pretty self-explanatory -- they’re a collection of lightweight tools and tweaks that can save you oodles of time. The reason I never knew about them, though, is they’re hidden away in the right-click menu. I use keyboard shortcuts all the time, so rarely open this menu. But Quick Actions are worth breaking your habits for.
Computing It’s that time of year again when Apple launches all of its new operating systems into public beta and invites a brave public to sift through bugs and crashes to find the nuggets of gold that Apple has been working on. With macOS Sonoma now in public beta, the big question is this: should you upgrade your Mac? Well, this year’s update has been a rather modest one, with few truly standout features. After all, you know it’s an unexceptional update when Apple leads its list of new features in macOS Sonoma with screen savers.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
