Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Programmable gaming keyboards are extremely cheap at Dell today By Briley Kenney Close Image used with permission by copyright holder Not all keyboards are created equal. Some are decent; some are not. Some are made with performance and precision in mind; some are not. Browsing through all of the wireless keyboard deals out there may or may not turn up what you’re looking for — you should probably still peek, though, since there are some good ones in there.
Nevertheless, Dell is offering an awesome deal on the Alienware AW510K RGB Gaming Keyboard and AW610M Gaming Mouse bundle. At over $70 off, you can get both the keyboard and wired/wireless mouse for $189 with free shipping and express delivery. Game on, folks.
This set includes both a wired keyboard and a dual-mode mouse that can be connected via USB or wireless, your choice. The Alienware AW510K Gaming Keyboard is beautifully designed, with programmable keys, dedicated volume control, and RGB for days. You can choose between 16.8 million RGB color combinations, all vibrant and bright as can be. It also has dedicated media keys for play, pause, next track, volume, mute, and more. Those keys, by the way, are low-profile Cherry MX keys. Oh yeah.
The Alienware AW610 Gaming Mouse uses optical technology with a polling rate of 1000Hz in both wired and wireless modes. A 16,000 DPI sensor allows for variable precision, and there are seven fully programmable buttons onboard. You can use Alienware Command Center to configure the buttons and settings. Like the keyboard, there are 16.8 million RGB color combinations, and the design of the mouse matches the keyboard. The battery will last for up to 350 hours on a single charge, and if you plug it into a USB port, that doesn’t matter.
Dell is offering the bundle, which includes the Alienware AW510K RGB Gaming Keyboard and AW610M Gaming Mouse, for over $71 off. Normally $260, you’re getting the set for $189 with free shipping and express delivery. They are in stock and ready to ship, but we’re not sure how long that’s going to last. If you want this fantastic mouse and keyboard set, act soon.
More gaming keyboard deals available now Want to see what else is available right now before making a final decision? We rounded up all of the best gaming keyboard deals, which you’ll find below.
Editors' Recommendations This Alienware gaming PC with an RTX 4090 is $500 off today More Dell Black Friday deals just landed – what to buy today Bought a gaming PC? Buy this Razer Cyber Monday deal NOW We can’t believe how cheap this Dell gaming laptop is today Save $280 on this Dell gaming laptop today — now $750! Computing Dell Deals Gamers who've decided against gaming PC deals because they want portability with their machines shouldn't just go for regular laptop deals. To meet the requirements of the latest titles, you'll want to take advantage of gaming laptop deals. While they don't come cheap, you can enjoy massive discounts from some retailers, such as this offer under Dell laptop deals for the Dell G15 gaming laptop that brings its price down by $280 to just $750, from its original price of $1,030.
The Dell G15 gaming laptop is powered by the 11th-generation Intel Core i5 processor, 8GB of RAM, and the Nvidia GeForce RTX 3050 graphics card, so it won't have trouble loading the latest games like Digital Trends' best gaming laptops. The laptop's 15.6-inch Full HD display with narrow borders will give justice to your favorite games' graphics, with its 120Hz refresh rate ensuring smooth and detailed scenes.
Deals If you're a gamer, the usual laptop deals aren't enough to satisfy your needs, so you shouldn't settle for anything less than gaming laptop deals. Dell, a trustworthy brand that's known for its Dell XPS deals for super-slim ultrabooks, is also a reliable name for gaming laptops. One of them is the Dell G15, which you can purchase for only $774 after $100 off from Dell and further savings of 12% with the code SAVE12, for a total discount of $206 to its original price of $980.
The Dell G15 is equipped with the 10th-generation Intel Core i5 processor, 8GB of RAM, and the NVIDIA GeForce GTX 1650 graphics card, which makes it capable of running the latest titles, similar to Digital Trends' best gaming laptops. It also comes with a 256GB SSD, for enough space to install several games at the same time.
Deals With the wide variety of gaming deals that are available across retailers, there's an offer out there for every gamer, including gaming laptop deals that cater to any kind of budget. If you want to buy a portable machine instead of purchasing from gaming PC deals and gaming monitor deals, it's highly recommended that you start your search by browsing Dell laptop deals. One of the available offers is this $280 discount for the Dell G15 gaming laptop, bringing its price down to a more affordable $700 from its already cheap original price of $980.
Similar to Digital Trends' best gaming laptops, the Dell G15 is capable of running the latest games with its 10th-generation Intel Core i5 processor, 8GB of RAM, and Nvidia GeForce GTX 1650 graphics card, with a 256GB SSD for storage. Meanwhile, its 15.6-inch Full HD display will give justice to the graphics of your games, letting you appreciate even the finest details.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
