Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Early Prime Day Deal: Save $20 on Logitech MX Master 2S Wireless Mouse By Aaron Mamiit Close Image used with permission by copyright holder If you are working from home or generally find yourself in front of your computer for extended periods of time, your hand will thank you if you take advantage of Prime Day deals to purchase a good wireless mouse. The Logitech MX Master 2S Wireless Mouse, with about 5,000 five-star reviews on Amazon, is a highly recommended option for wireless mouse deals ahead of Prime Day on October 13, as a $20 discount takes its price down to $79 from $99.
The Logitech MX Master 2S Wireless Mouse, one of the computer accessory maker’s most popular products, features a hand-crafted ergonomic design with thumb and finger rests that caters to different grip types, helping prevent repetitive strain injury and carpal tunnel. However, the thousands of five-star reviews aren’t only for the mouse’s looks.
Logitech promises up to 70 days of power on a single charge of the mouse’s battery, and if it runs out of juice while you are in the middle of work, a quick three-minute charge will get you through the rest of the day. The mouse is also capable of tracking on any surface, even on glass that is at least 4 millimeters thick, and comes with adjustable sensitivity from 200 to 4,000 dots per inch, as well as a speed-adaptive scroll wheel that automatically shifts from click-to-click to hyper-fast scrolling.
The Logitech MX Master 2S Wireless Mouse, through its unifying receiver or Bluetooth, may connect to up to three devices at a time, and you can switch between them with just the press of a button. You may also move your mouse and transfer content between the three devices using the Logitech Flow technology, so you will no longer need to perform cloud uploads or send email attachments to share files between your computers.
The Logitech MX Master 2S Wireless Mouse has made a lot of computer users happy, as evidenced by the roughly 5,000 five-star reviews on Amazon. The sale price of $79, reflecting a $20 discount from its original price of $99, is a small investment compared to all the features and benefits of the Logitech MX Master 2S Wireless Mouse that you can enjoy with your daily computer use.
Editors' Recommendations Xbox Series S Prime Day Deal saves you $30 on the console Xbox Elite Series 2 controller is over $40 off for Prime Day Get this Apple Watch for under $200 with this Prime Day deal This popular 2-in-1 laptop is $200 off in Dell’s rival Prime Day sale This is hands-down the best Prime Day tablet deal you can shop Computing Amazon Amazon Prime Day Mobile While some of the best October Prime Day deals include electronics, household goods, and a wide variety of items, most people consider the focus consumer-electronics-related, especially the holiday sales during Black Friday and Cyber Monday. That's not necessarily true, and as part of Amazon's Prime Day October event, called Prime Day Big Deal Days, they're proving as such with an incredible Kindle offer. As part of its latest event, Prime members can get up to three months of Kindle Unlimited for free, which includes access to a library of over a million digital books. It's a must-have if you're any kind of bookworm, and naturally, it works best with Amazon's Kindle devices -- or other compatible tablets. After three months, the service renews at the full price of $12 per month.
Not a prime member? Don't worry. You can still take advantage of an excellent offer. A separate deal allows you to get two months of Computing Amazon's Prime Day deals are once again online in Prime Big Deal Days 2023, so retailers like Lenovo are looking to divert shoppers' attention to their own sales. If you're thinking about taking advantage of Prime Day laptop deals, you should be looking at Lenovo's offers that are also available right now. Ranging from budget Chromebooks to 2-in-1 laptops to gaming machines, there's something for everyone, and we've rounded up favorite bargains to help you decide what to buy. You'll need to act fast though, as stocks may run out at any moment.
Lenovo IdeaPad Flex 3i Chromebook -- $299, was $479 The Lenovo IdeaPad Flex 3i Chromebook is equipped with the Intel Pentium Silver N6000 processor, Intel UHD Graphics, 8GB of RAM, and a 64GB eMMC for storage. The device runs pretty smooth even with these low-end components because of Google's Chrome OS, which heavily utilizes web-based apps over installed software. The Chromebook is also a 2-in-1 laptop, quickly transforming from laptop mode to tablet mode with the help of the 360-degree hinges attaching its 15.6-inch Full HD screen to its body.
Mobile Four different iPhone 15 models, one way to get your choice free. That's the critical feature of this early Prime Day deal, brought to you by Boost Mobile. And Boost Mobile, the host of this deal, is technically the catch. You have to sign up for Boost Mobile (and pay for the phone line on it) to get the phones for free. And, considering that Boost Mobile is one of our favorite prepaid phone plans, that's not much of a catch at all.
The following phones are included in this deal: Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
