Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Acer Chromebook Vero 514 Review Chromebook vs Laptop Screenshot on a Chromebook Reset a Chromebook Best Chromebooks Chromebook Problems Split Screen on a Chromebook Home Computing Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best games for Chromebooks By Tyler Lacoma Close Streaming services Android games Web games Install Linux Google’s Chrome OS platform wasn’t exactly built for gaming, but thanks to web apps, Android , and Linux, it can be a capable machine — especially if it has decent hardware.
Whether you prefer free games or those you can purchase, there are plenty that work well on Chromebooks.
 Here are our recommendations for the best games for Chromebooks.
Further reading How to take a screenshot on a Chromebook How to install Windows on a Chromebook How to reset a Chromebook Streaming services If you want to get the best gaming experience out of your Chromebook, perhaps you should consider a game streaming service. Sure, they may require a monthly fee, but you eliminate all the compatibility and most performance issues by streaming games from the cloud. Your Chromebook is essentially the receiver, requiring very little resources.
Best Black Friday gaming laptop deals: Cheapest prices today Best Chromebook deals: Cheap laptops starting at $180 Best gaming laptop deals: Game on the go from just $550 Google Stadia This should be your default go-to streaming service on Chromebooks. You can purchase games outright and stream them to your Chromebook in 1080p at 60 frames per second. Google’s library continues to grow, featuring AAA titles like Doom Eternal , Destiny 2 , Baldur’s Gate 3 , Marvel’s Avengers , Borderlands 3 , and more.
For $10 per month, Stadia Pro provides an all-you-can-play library of games similar to Microsoft’s Xbox Game Pass subscription. Currently, these include Dead by Daylight , Metro Last Light Redux , Human: Fall Flat , and many others. The subscription also increases the stream resolution to 4K HDR — even with your purchased games — and offers exclusive discounts.
Nvidia GeForce Now Nvidia takes a different approach with its streaming service. The company knows most PC gamers use Steam, Epic Games, Uplay, and other digital platforms. Rather than make you re-pay for games like Google Stadia , why not stream the games you already own by linking those accounts? Here’s the catch. The free account places you in line. In other words, when you launch a linked game, you remain in queue until there’s a spot for you on Nvidia’s servers. Moreover, you can only play for one hour at a time.
With the Founders subscription, you get “priority access” for $5 per month. The session length extends to six hours, and RTX hardware kicks on for games that support Nvidia’s ray tracing technology.
Android games Alto’s Odyssey (free) Image used with permission by copyright holder If you like endless runners, then this is the game for you. Following Alto’s Adventure in 2018, this sequel ditches the snow-covered landscapes for rolling hills of hot orange sand. Players jump on a snowboard and slide up and down the endless hills performing flips and collecting coins.
The object is to travel as far as you can without wiping out. That includes jumping over rocks, jumping over chasms, and avoiding other obstructions, which in turn add points to your final score. There are also stunts to perform, biomes to discover, and goals to complete. In-app purchases include coin stacks and removing ads later on in the game.
Asphalt 9: Legends (free) Arif Bacchus/Digital Trends Windows 10 gamers can enjoy racing game series like Forza , but if you own a Chromebook and want a real racing game, Asphalt 9: Legends is your virtual road warrior. It packs many hit hypercars, including models from Ferrari, Porsche, Lamborghini, and W Motors. You’re free to pick the dream car you need and race across spectacular locations against rival speed machines around the world.
The game runs smoothly on Chrome OS, with occasional frame drops, but it’s still a great experience. You can play with touch controls or just use the keyboard if your device doesn’t have a touchscreen.
Baldur’s Gate: Enhanced Edition ($9.99) Image used with permission by copyright holder Baldur’s Gate is one of the greatest isometric role-playing games ever. Developed by BioWare before its Mass Effect and Anthem days, it takes place in the Forgotten Realms from Dungeons & Dragons.
 It’s also based on the 2nd Edition rules to provide a more authentic feel.
Players assume the role of Gorian’s Ward, who must deal with all the drama surrounding Baldur’s Gate and the Sword Coast region. Your character eventually discovers that the Iron Throne is causing all the chaos and attempting to start a war.
This is an “enhanced” edition of the 1998 game, running an “upgraded and improved” version of the original Infinity Engine. It includes the Tales of the Sword Coast expansion along with a new adventure and three new characters. The game supports mouse/touchpad and keyboard support along with touchscreen input, but it does not support game controllers.
Castlevania: Symphony of the Night ($2.99) Image used with permission by copyright holder If retro side-scrolling action is your thing, Castlevania: Symphony of the Night will thrust you into one of the best Castlevania games to date. Picking up five years after Rondo of Blood , Maria Renard heads to the reemerged Castlevania to find her missing brother, Richter. Meanwhile, Alucard, the son of Dracula, investigates the castle as well to confront his resurrected father.
Everything you loved about 1997’s PlayStation hit remains intact, including an awesome soundtrack. It includes a Continue feature so you’re not starting over from scratch each time your hero dies. Without a controller, touchscreen controls appear on the screen, though you can use a mouse/touchpad (but we wouldn’t recommend it). These on-screen controls disappear when you pair a game controller.
Fallout Shelter (free) Image used with permission by copyright holder How do you spend your time after the nuclear fallout settles? Manage a shelter, of course! Your task is to reel in residents and create a thriving underground community so humanity can grow and thrive once again. That means building rooms dedicated to generators, food, water, and getting frisky (hey, you need to procreate). It’s presented in an “ant farm” view, though you can zoom in to each room and watch your residents “work.” Despite its simulator roots, Fallout Shelter feels very much like a “lite” Fallout game. For instance, each NPC has a SPECIAL profile that determines its overall role. The game plays great in full-screen mode and supports mouse/touchpad, touchscreen, and controller input.
Pac-Man (free) Arif Bacchus/Digital Trends Pac-Man is one of the most beloved videogames of all time, and it’s now available on Chromebooks through the Google Play Store. In this game, you earn high scores by steering Pac-Man through mazes as he eats all the Pac-Dots and fruits while avoiding enemy ghosts. Power Pellets and your strategy are his only defense.
There’s a lot of old-school action here, but you’ll also be able to enjoy new daily Pac missions as well as tournaments and token rewards. Best of all, you don’t need a Chromebook with a touchscreen to enjoy. The game uses the up, down, left, and right arrow keys, which is far better than using the worn-out joysticks hated by players during the arcade days.
PUBG Mobile (free) Image used with permission by copyright holder The battle royale shooter frenzy began with this game, Playerunknown’s Battlegrounds.
 Rated as one of the best mobile games of all time, you can play this Android favorite on your Chromebook. However, due to the emulation, you’re placed with other players that fall under the same umbrella. If you want to play with the general PUBG population, you’ll need to switch to a mobile device.
Because this version is optimized for mobile, there’s a steep learning curve with the mouse and keyboard support. The settings are somewhat customizable, allowing you to move the on-screen buttons that are otherwise hidden. Overall, the game pits you against 99 other players in a Last Man Standing battle. You can fight solo, in a team of two, or in a squad of four.
Sonic the Hedgehog Classic (free) Image used with permission by copyright holder The hit game that kicked off the Sonic the Hedgehog franchise is now available on Chromebooks via the Google Play Store! With Sonic the Hedgehog Classic , you can speed across the seven classic zones as Sonic the Hedgehog and run or sprint through loop-de-loops as you defeat enemies.
The game is optimized for touchscreen Chromebooks, but you also can use Xbox Controllers if needed. It’s extremely lightweight and is quite fun to play.
Stardew Valley ($7.99) Image used with permission by copyright holder If you’re totally sick of working at an office desk day in and day out, then it’s about time you looked into that farm you just inherited. It’s not much more than a dilapidated shack sitting on an overgrown plot of land, but it’s yours. Away from the city, you’ll have to suck in the clean Pelican Town air and dig in to clean up grandad’s abandoned farm, plant crops, raise cattle, and so on. That’s the story behind this popular farming simulator released on every platform under the sun.
If you remember FarmVille or love the Harvest Moon games, Stardew Valley should be familiar farming grounds. Your first quests are to clear some land, plant parsnip seeds, and go wander the Pelican Town streets. The game plays beautifully in full-screen mode and supports mouse/touchpad, touchscreen, and controller input.
You can still get this game free through Google’s Perk program for Chromebooks.
Web games Agar.io (free) Image used with permission by copyright holder The sleeper hit Agar.io is a web-based game that swiftly grew in popularity due to its easy handling — being featured on House of Cards helped, too.
The game itself is surprisingly mesmerizing. You begin life as a simple blob on a world made from graph paper, then go around snacking on other players until you grow and become more powerful. As you grow, you learn how to use the few tricks unique to your blob, where to hide, and so on. It’s pretty addictive and always lots of fun to see other players around the world running from you — or gobbling you up.
Arcane Legends (free) Image used with permission by copyright holder There are a lot of great free-to-play, RPG-focused Chromebook games, and most can be handled by any computer, but Arcane Legends is one of the most dependable and fun RPGs to date. The game allows you to create a character, do some hacking and slashing, cast some magic, tame some cute pets — the usual RPG fare.
This WoW -lite approach is particularly balanced in Arcane Legends , which is why it’s hard to find a bad word said against this game. One thing worth noting is that diving into its deeper elements, like guilds, requires lots of time. It’s not exactly for casual players, like Pocket Legends.
Technically, this isn’t a Chrome Web Store game, as Spacetime Studios now offers its web-based games directly from its website rather than offer Chrome extensions. Other titles in the Legends series include Pocket Legends (casual animal-based RPG), Dark Legends (gothic), and Star Legends (sci-fi). The Android versions may or may not work on your Chromebook.
Entanglement (free) Image used with permission by copyright holder Entanglement is one of the most lauded Chromebook games in recent times, receiving accolades for both its beautiful, organic design and bewitching gameplay (well, bewitching as long as you like thoughtful puzzlers). The goal for any given map is to create a path by moving tiles around. The longer and more labyrinthine your path, the better your score. It’s easy to learn and surprisingly soothing to play.
Save the Day (free) Image used with permission by copyright holder If you love old-school arcade games with lots of challenges, here’s a new take on the formula. Instead of shooting aliens or thugs, you’re zipping around the screen in a helicopter to avoid the fire while rescuing survivors caught between the flames. The “save ’em up” approach is pretty cool, the game’s cartoony graphics are easy on the eyes, and the challenge level is just right.
Spelunky (free) Image used with permission by copyright holder The original Spelunky is a fun throwback to the 8-bit console days. Slap on your miner’s hat and climb down into the dark depths to explore, dig for treasure, and save people in distress. Use the Arrow keys to move, press Z to jump, X to use your whip, A to throw grenades, and C to throw ropes to climb.
The only object is to grab all the loot you can. Once you reach the bottom and find a door, you progress to the next lower level. You can climb rock walls, ladders, and ropes to explore every inch of this digital underworld. However, watch out for traps, lurking creatures, and fall damage.
TagPro Capture the Flag (free) Image used with permission by copyright holder Although its graphics are inspired by the ancient Minesweeper , TagPro is a surprisingly complex game of capture the flag. So if you’re looking for a team-oriented game that’s main focus is using strategy, this is it. It’s also a great option for those who enjoy short, competitive games.
The super-simple graphics mean there’s no need to worry about popping open a quick window to play. Rather, you are better able to focus on the combination of bombs, blocks, and power-ups in your arsenal, essentially building your own little video game levels to thwart flag stealers. Create your list of teams, and get to capturing those flags. You should not be surprised to know that chaos quickly ensues in this game.
Web Quake (shareware) Image used with permission by copyright holder While it’s true that Doom brought first-person shooters to the mainstream, id Software’s Quake completely revolutionized the format. Their developers shifted the artificial 3D rendering to polygons and vector-based geometric layouts. Suddenly, players could circle their opponents, and everyone appeared far more life-like than any games before it.
Quake also has bragging rights on being one of the first games to capitalize on the popular GPU “mouselook” option and online deathmatch.
Web Quake operates via Javascript and also holds the first full episode of the game. You know the one— everyone played it repeatedly before the game’s full release in 1996. On top of enhanced controller compatibility, players of the web version will have the advantage of full keyboard and mouse support.
You’ll likely find that this version of the game is an easier one to access and manage than alternatives. (With Web Quake , you won’t need to set up Linux, download Steam, and be forced to try and squeeze the game in your Chromebook’s limited storage.) If you already own the game, keep an eye out for new support for the remaining episodes soon.
Install Linux While this doesn’t necessarily fall under the “best games” theme, many of the best games you can play on a Chromebook are accessible through Linux. That requires you to enable and install Linux on a Chromebook and then use the Linux terminal to install Steam. It’s a lengthy process but worth the effort if your Chromebook meets the hardware requirements for the Linux games you want to play. Be sure to check the requirements via Steam before going through all the trouble.
To get you started, here’s a guide on how to install Steam on a Chromebook.
 Once you have it installed, here are some great Linux-supporting games available on Steam: Ark: Survival Evolved BioShock series Borderlands series Civilization VI Counter-Strike: Global Offense Dead Island Deus Ex series Dota 2 Left 4 Dead 2 (any Valve game, actually) Mad Max Metro series Rise of the Tomb Raider Rocket League Shadow of Mordor The Witcher series Editors' Recommendations The best handheld gaming PCs you can buy These are the best microphones for streaming you can buy Best HP laptop deals: Get a Windows laptop for $199 10 best laptops of 2023: tested and reviewed Best Alienware deals: Save on gaming laptops and PCs today Gaming Chromebooks Laptops Computing Gamers who want to be able to play the best PC games should invest in a gaming PC. These machines range from low-priced but capable computers to high-end devices that can handle anything you throw at them, so what you're going to get depends on your budget. There's no shortage of gaming PC deals online, so to help you choose, and to prevent you from getting overwhelmed, we've rounded up our top picks right here. You need to hurry with your purchase though, because these bargains may disappear at any moment.
Lenovo LOQ Tower -- $750, was $1,030 The Lenovo LOQ Tower is a relatively affordable gaming PC that doesn't sacrifice performance, as it's still a very capable machine with its 13th-generation Intel Core i5 processor, Nvidia GeForce RTX 3050 graphics card, and 8GB of RAM. The gaming desktop also ships with Windows 11 Home pre-installed in a 512GB SSD, which offers enough space for multiple AAA titles with all the necessary updates and DLCs.
Computing Most gaming laptops are large, ostentatiously styled with massive vents and a fighter jet-like aesthetic — and they're heavy. They're not meant to be carried around everywhere like regular laptops, but rather from place to place for gaming sessions. Not everyone wants a massive laptop for their gaming needs, though, and that's where a new breed of thin and light gaming laptops comes into play.
The Lenovo Legion Slim 5 tops this list. It's not only a great gaming laptop, but it's one of the best laptops, period. It's not the only excellent thin and light laptop worth considering, though. These are our favorites.
Mobile As much as we love having the best smartphones in our pockets, there are times when those small screens don't cut it, and we just need a larger display. That's when you turn to a tablet, which is great for being productive on the go and can be a great way to unwind and relax too. While the tablet market really took off after the iPad, it has grown to be quite diverse with a huge variety of products — from great budget options to powerhouses for professionals.
We've tried out a lot of tablets here at Digital Trends, from the workhorses for pros to tablets that are made for kids and even seniors, there's a tablet for every person and every budget. For most people, though, we think Apple's iPad Air is the best overall tablet — especially if you're already invested in the Apple ecosystem. But if you're not an Apple user, that's fine too; there are plenty of other great options that you'll find in this roundup.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
