Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Acer Chromebook Vero 514 Review Chromebook vs Laptop Screenshot on a Chromebook Reset a Chromebook Best Chromebooks Chromebook Problems Split Screen on a Chromebook Home Computing Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? These new Chromebook Plus laptops are already discounted By Jennifer Allen Close With the launch of new Chromebook Plus laptops, we’re spotting some great Chromebook deals for those that wish to stay up to date.
Chromebook Plus promises to effectively offer double of everything with twice the performance, twice the storage, and twice the memory. Perhaps more noticeably, a new key component to it is Google’s AI being everywhere to simplify your life. Webcams have AI-powered noise cancellation, while there are lighting improvements and background blur. You also gain AI tools from Google Photos like Magic Eraser. These are just some of the upgrades that make buying a new Chromebook Plus super tempting. That’s why we’ve listed below some of the best Chromebook Plus deals around. Let’s take a look at what you can get for your budget.
Acer Chromebook Plus 515 — $269, was $399 HP 15.6-inch Chromebook Plus — $349, was $499 Lenovo IdeaPad Flex 5i Chromebook Plus — $379, was $499 HP 2-in-1 14-inch Chromebook Plus — $379, was $699 Asus 14-inch 2-in-1 Chromebook Plus — $399, was $499 Acer Chromebook Plus 515 — $269, was $399 Acer The Acer Chromebook Plus 515 offers an Intel Core i3 processor, 8GB of memory and 128GB of UFS storage aka Universal Flash Onboard Storage. It also has a 15.6-inch full HD display with an anti-glare coating so it can handle being used in bright conditions. There’s also a 1080p webcam packed with all the aforementioned built-in AI powered video call tools. The whole laptop looks suitably sleek and stylish too.
HP 15.6-inch Chromebook Plus — $349, was $499 HP With an Intel Core i3 processor, 8GB of memory and 128GB of UFS storage, the HP 15.6-inch Chromebook Plus looks pretty typical on the surface. However, it has neat extras like 178-degree viewing angles for the 15.6-inch display, along with HP Fast Charge support so you can get from 0% to 50% in about 45 minutes. There’s also tuned stereo speakers and a HP True Vision FHD webcam that can handle even video calls in low light situations.
Lenovo IdeaPad Flex 5i Chromebook Plus — $379, was $499 Lenovo The Lenovo IdeaPad Flex 5i Chromebook Plus has the standard Intel Core i3 processor and 8GB of memory. Making it stand out more than the other though is 128GB of SSD storage. Better still, it has a 14-inch full HD touchscreen with a resolution of 1920 x 1200. The processor is a 13th-generation model too unlike cheaper models with a 12th-generation chip making a subtle but important difference to performance. The Lenovo IdeaPad Flex 5i Chromebook Plus also doubles as a tablet as it has a 360-degree flip-and-fold design so it can be used in one of four different modes — laptop, tablet, tent, and stand. It’s sure to continue Lenovo’s reputation of making some of the best Chromebooks.
HP 2-in-1 14-inch Chromebook Plus — $379, was $699 HP The HP 2-in-1 14-inch Chromebook Plus has the usual Intel Core i3 processor and 8GB of memory. Unusually though, it has twice as much storage as many others with 256GB of SSD storage for those who don’t wish to fully rely on cloud-based storage. It also has a great 14-inch wide ultra XGA IPS touchscreen display. Its 1920 x 1200 resolution is crisp and clear while it has 178-degree viewing angles. Corning Gorilla Glass protects the touchscreen while there’s a delightful 89% screen-to-body ratio. It also has a HP True Vision 5MP webcam that includes a camera privacy shutter if you prefer the extra security. HP Fast Charge, HP Audio Boost, and audio tuning by B&O all add to the more premium experience, reminding you why HP is one of the best laptop brands.
Asus 14-inch 2-in-1 Chromebook Plus — $399, was $499 ASUS The Asus 14-inch 2-in-1 Chromebook Plus uses an AMD Ryzen 3 7320C processor along with 8GB of memory and 128GB of SSD storage. It has a 14-inch WUXGA touchscreen with 1920 x 1200 resolution while the design means you can use it as a tablet or in presentation mode too. All the other essentials like a built-in HD webcam, Wi-Fi 6 support, and a built-in media reader are all included here too.
Editors' Recommendations 75 best Amazon Black Friday deals on laptops, TVs, Apple, and more Best Chromebook Black Friday deals on HP, Lenovo, and more Best Lenovo laptop Black Friday deals: Chromebooks, gaming laptops, and more The best Lenovo gaming laptop Black Friday deals right now Best Buy Black Friday deals: 12 best offers you can shop now Deals Chromebooks Laptops Computing If you've been looking out for some of the cheapest Black Friday laptop deals, you're going to love what Best Buy has to offer. Currently, you can buy the sleek looking Lenovo Slim 3 Chromebook for $149 saving a huge $170 off the regular price of $319. Ideal for taking to class or on your commute, this is easily one of the better Black Friday deals at the moment. If you've been waiting to find the right Black Friday Chromebook deals, this is the time to hit buy. If you're not entirely sold, keep reading while we take you through what the Chromebook has to offer.
Why you should buy the Lenovo Slim 3 Chromebook As one of the better Lenovo laptop Black Friday deals, the Lenovo Slim 3 Chromebook is a tempting proposition if your budget is slight but you still want something decent for the price. It has a MediaTek Kompanio 520 processor along with 4GB of memory and 64GB of eMMC storage. Refreshingly and making it a bit more tempting for those after the best Chromebooks, it also has a 14-inch full HD touchscreen.
Computing There are a lot of great Black Friday deals on laptops popping up as we get closer to the Black Friday and Cyber Monday weekend, but we've found a few great deals at Best Buy that are going to expire very soon. Luckily, the deals we've found are spread across budgets and brands, and we've even found a couple of gaming laptops for you to pick from. We've also included some Chromebooks for those who might not want to go with a Windows laptop. Best Buy Black Friday TV deals are blowing up equally as much, so check those out if you're trying to use up a gift card.
Our Favorite Best Buy Black Friday Laptop Deal Lenovo Slim 3 Chromebook -- $149, was $319 Computing Even if your router is only four or five years old, it might be time for an upgrade, given the recent advances in router tech, such as Wi-Fi 6, which has become much more prominent. The same also applies to mesh routers, which have more advanced technology that can handle multiple connected devices, such as smart lights, home security systems, phones, and so forth. Of course, you don't have to pay a lot of money to grab yourself a new router, and there are even some great Black Friday deals you can take advantage of that will save you a little bit of extra cash. We've collected some of our favorite deals on routers below, but be sure to check back regularly as we update with newer and better deals.
Best Router Black Friday Deals Routers are a great option if you don't have a large home or need to cover a lot of square footage, and putting them near you means that you get much better speeds and lower latency when connecting through Wi-Fi. Of course, that may not always be an option, so it's important to know what sort of capacity and speeds routers can do. Most routers will have an "AX" followed by a set of numbers that dictates the maximum speed it can reach, and the rule of thumb is generally that this maximum speed only applies when you're really close to the router, so the further out you go, the less speed you'll get. It's not perfect, but generally more powerful routers that can hit higher speeds will be able to connect at higher speeds further away, although its always best to check the actual real-world performance of a router before taking the plunge.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
