Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Dell vs. HP: Which laptop brand is best for your needs? By Anita George Close Dell and HP are on our list of the best laptop brands for a reason. In recent years, both of these laptop manufacturers have consistently produced some of the most well-designed machines you can buy. So it’s understandable if you’re shopping for a new laptop, and you’re having trouble deciding between these two huge, highly-rated brands. Both have a lot to offer and it can be overwhelming to sift through all of the cool features, price points, and other factors you might want to consider before purchasing a laptop from either of these manufacturers.
Design Use cases And if you do need help picking the right laptop brand for yourself, you’ve come to the right place. In this comparison guide, we’ll show you everything you need to know about the differences between HP’s best laptops and Dell’s best laptops. Specifically, we’ll go over how they differ in design, their respective features, their price ranges, and which brands are best for certain use cases like school, business, video editing, and gaming.
Design Arif Bacchus / Digital Trends Laptop brands are defined by their flagships, so for HP in 2023, that’s its Elite Dragonfly Notebook G4 for business users and the Spectre x360 13.5 for consumers. The Dragonfly range of laptops are all exceedingly lightweight (the Elite Dragonfly G4 is just 2.2 pounds) with a solid magnesium alloy build and a display with a mix of thick and thin bezels. But you’ll also get a laptop that packs in a lot of interesting features in an ultra-portable package, such as a webcam cover, a dedicated keyboard button for the microphone, a high-resolution 5MP webcam, comfortably-sized keycaps, and a port selection that includes Thunderbolt 4 and HDMI 2.0.
The best budget laptops for 2023 10 best laptops of 2023: tested and reviewed Best laptop deals: Save on HP, Lenovo, Dell and Apple The Spectre x360 line also has its own unique contributions to HP’s laptop design innovations. Looking at the HP Spectre x360 13.5 , you’ll notice that the laptop is outfitted with features such as an easy-to-open yet firm dual-zone hinge, a display with a 3:2 aspect ratio, an infrared camera, and an OLED display.
But the Spectre x360 13.5 also shares features with the Dragonfly series, including a fingerprint reader, a spacious keyboard and touchpad, and dedicated buttons and shutter features to turn off microphones and cover webcams. Those 2-in-1 designs are also light and portable, facilitating their use as a tablet when needed.
Dell’s best-known laptops are the XPS line of laptops and its gaming laptop offerings, like its Alienware brand. With the XPS, you can generally expect to see a sleek and streamlined aluminum chassis, ultra-thin bezels on all four sides of its display, a backlit keyboard, a port selection that includes Thunderbolt 4 ports, and a 16:10 aspect ratio display. The XPS 13 Plus adds more advanced features than we’ve seen on XPS laptops before, including an edge-to-edge keyboard, LED function keys, and a hidden haptic touchpad. The XPS 13 9315 , on the other hand, is now positioned as a budget laptop to undercut Apple’s MacBook Air.
 The XPS 13 Plus and XPS 13 9315 are the smallest XPS laptops. If you want to upsize, you’ll get excellent laptops in the XPS 15 and XPS 17.
Dell’s Alienware brand offers specialized, heavy-duty gaming laptops and comes with its own distinctive features to optimize your gaming experience. Features such as Nvidia G-SYNC technology, dual fan design for better cooling, a customizable lighting system called AlienFX, a wide variety of ports (including Thunderbolt 4, a headset jack, and HDMI 2.1), a magnesium alloy chassis, programmable keyboards (for gaming shortcuts), and eye tracking tools.
Use cases Both brands have laptops that top some of our best-of lists, with Dell outperforming HP in certain categories and HP outshining Dell in others. In this sense, picking the right laptop for yourself really does come down to how you plan to use it.
There are all sorts of ways you might choose to use your new laptop, but let’s take a look at a few of the most common uses for them, namely: for business and work, for school, for content creation (like video editing), or gaming.
Business Mark Coppock / Digital Trends With HP, you have four great business laptop options, including the HP Elite Dragonfly , HP ZBook Studio , and the HP Envy x360. With Dell, the XPS range is a fantastic alternative, but there isn’t the same breadth of choice.
The HP Elite Dragonfly has been listed as the “best business laptop” in our Best Laptops list , a distinction that it currently doesn’t hold. Nevertheless, it’s perfect for remote workers and those who travel frequently for business. This laptop features a sleek, lightweight design, a high-res display, a privacy screen to help keep what you’re working on away from prying eyes, a quiet keyboard, a stylus, and an office-ready port selection that includes USB-A, HDMI, USB-C 3.1, and Thunderbolt 4.
If you need a beast of a workstation that can power through tasks like video editing and 3D modeling, then look no further than the HP ZBook Studio.
 If you still want the robustness of a Windows PC but still prefer the lightweight and easier-to-use Chrome OS, HP’s premier Chromebook offering, the Dragonfly Pro Chromebook , might be your best bet. And rounding out our HP business laptop picks is the HP Envy x360, which is best for those who need a 2-in-1 business laptop at a budget-friendly price. With a 13th-gen processor and 16GB of RAM, you’re not exactly sacrificing power and speed for a cheaper business laptop. You’re actually getting the best of both worlds.
If you’re still keen on getting a Dell for your work setup, there are some excellent choices in the Latitude lineup. These machines span a range from 14- and 15.6-inch clamshell laptops to convertible 2-in-1s, all of which are packed full of the features business users need. If you want a more mainstream choice, then we do have one recommendation: the Dell XPS 13 Plus. It’s not a true “business laptop,” but it is a fantastic all-purpose laptop that’s perfect for those who need portability above all else. Plus, because it’s designed for general use, it can easily be the laptop that enhances your productivity and helps you relax when the work day is done. (Especially when you have a display that features Dolby Vision.) School HP Like business, school laptops can be varied, depending on the type of work you want to do on them. Both HP and Dell have excellent laptops for all sorts of ages and abilities.
For college students , our favorite Dell laptop is the G15 Gaming Laptop. It’s an affordable and powerful machine that can handle homework without a problem while keeping a student entertained during downtime. For around $1,000, the college student in your life will get a laptop with a 45-watt 12th generation Intel Core processor, plenty of RAM and storage, up to an Nvidia GeForce RTX 3070 Ti GPU, Wi-Fi 6 and Bluetooth 5.1 connectivity, and a wide variety of ports. The Dell Inspiron 14 is another option, and while it isn’t the most powerful laptop, it does have everything you need for school assignments, browsing the internet, and streaming your favorite shows and movies.
For high school students , HP has a great option with its Chromebook 14. It’s an exceedingly affordable, lightweight, and easy-to-use laptop thanks to the simplicity of Chrome OS. If your high school student doesn’t require any non-Chrome OS and non-Android apps to complete their assignments, access their online classes, or collaborate with their peers, then the HP Chromebook 14 is a solid option. For just $300, your high schooler will get a laptop with a 14-inch non-touch HD display, an Intel Celeron N4000 processor, 4GB of RAM, 32GB of eMMC storage, an HP Wide Vision HD webcam, and Wi-Fi 5 and Bluetooth 5 connectivity.
Video Editing Mark Coppock / Digital Trends Video editing is an intensive task, so the Dell XPS 17 is our top pick overall because it pairs a huge display with high-end hardware. This laptop has a jumbo-sized display at 17 inches and features 45-watt 13th-generation Intel Core processors, 16GB of RAM (it can be upgraded up to 64GB), a roomy 512GB of SSD storage (which can also be upgraded to 8TB), and up to an Nvidia GeForce RTX 4080 video card. It also sports a fingerprint reader, four Thunderbolt 4 ports, a full-size SD card reader, and Wi-Fi 6 and Bluetooth 5.2 connectivity.
When we reviewed the XPS 17 , we were particularly impressed with its “incredible” performance, its “nearly perfect screen,” and its “spacious and responsive touchpad.” We even went so far as to say that the XPS 17 competes with Apple’s MacBook Pro.
If you still need a powerful laptop for video editing but would rather stick with HP, a comparable pick would be the HP Envy 15. The Envy 15 is great for those who need strong performance at a lower price point. When reviewing the HP Envy 16 , our review unit was configured with a 13th-generation Intel Core i9 processor, 1TBGB of SSD storage, 16GB of RAM, a WQXGA IPS display, and an RTX 4060. Overall, this laptop received a glowing review from us as we praised its performance, its build quality, and its excellent keyboard and touchpad. The main drawbacks we saw were that it was on the heavy side and that its battery life was below average.
Gaming Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Our current list of the Best Gaming Laptops includes the HP Victus 16, a solid 1080p gaming machine for less than $1,500. The machine offers fast components and a solid build quality, making it a good budget gaming choice.
The Dell G15 gaming laptop may not be the best gaming laptop you can buy (that honor goes to the Lenovo Legion Pro 5), but it’s a solid entry-level option for beginner gamers and gamers on a budget. What it lacks in style, it makes up for in value. The Dell G15 gaming laptop has an Intel Core processor, 8GB of RAM, a 256GB SSD, and up to an RTX 4060 GPU, with a starting price of $730.
If you have a bigger budget to work with, Dell’s Alienware x14 R2 is worth a look. It features an Intel Core i7-13620H CPU, 16GB of RAM, a 1TB SSD, a 14-inch WQXGA display running at up to 165Hz, and an RTX 4060 graphics card. It’s a relatively portable gaming laptop in every sense of the word, including its actual weight: a little over 4 pounds. Think of it as a highly mobile replacement for a desktop setup.
Editors' Recommendations Best Black Friday gaming laptop deals: Cheapest prices today Best HP laptop deals: Get a Windows laptop for $199 Best Dell laptop deals: Get the Dell XPS 13 for less than $600 The best external GPUs for your laptop in 2023 The best HP laptops to buy in 2023 Dell Laptops Computing You can spend a lot of money on 16-inch laptops with fast components for video editing and photo editing. We're talking $2,500 and a lot more. But there's a class of midrange 16-inch machines that offer much of the same performance for less money.
Dell's Inspiron 16 Plus and HP's Envy 16 are two such laptops with prices that start well under $2,000. Both can be equipped with some fast components, but they're not identical by any means. Which of these more affordable 16-inch powerhouses is the best? Specs and configurations Computing There are laptops, and then there are 2-in-1-laptops that offer you the best of both worlds. What worlds? You can seamlessly swap between a tablet-style device, by flipping the keyboard behind the display, or when you need it, instantly swap back to a traditional laptop with keyboard. It will completely evolve your productivity, if you've never used one before. The thing is, because of the extra functionality they offer, a 2-in-1-laptop can be expensive. But you’re in luck, as some of the best laptop deals currently taking place are discounts on 2-in-1 laptops. Many of the best laptop brands are currently seeing 2-in-1 models discounted, including the likes of HP, Lenovo, and Dell. We’ve tracked down all of the best 2-in-1 laptop deals taking place right now, so read onward for more details on what might make the best deal for you.
Asus CM3200 Chromebook — $198, was $229 While the best laptops often focus on delivering as much power as they can into their footprint, the best Chromebooks tend to focus on simplicity and delivering just the things more entry-level users need. This is true with the Asus CM3200 Chromebook, which comes in at under $200. This price point gets you quite a bit, including an HD touchscreen display, an 8-core processor, 4GB of RAM, and 64GB of internal storage space. This is generally plenty for base users like students, or professionals whose work doesn’t go much further beyond word processors, spreadsheets, and browsing the web.
Computing Dell's XPS 15 has found its place on a number of our best-of lists, including best laptops and best 15-inch laptops. There are a number of reasons for those accolades, including a robust, yet relatively thin and light design, as well as strong performance and lovely displays.
But that doesn't mean it faces no competition. HP's Envy 16 2023 is a 16-inch laptop that gives the XPS 15 a run for its money. It's around the same price and offers similar or better performance. Is that enough to replace the XPS 15 on our lists? Specs and configurations Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
