Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Acer Chromebook Vero 514 Review Chromebook vs Laptop Screenshot on a Chromebook Reset a Chromebook Best Chromebooks Chromebook Problems Split Screen on a Chromebook Home Computing Guides How to get Android apps on a Chromebook By Mark Coppock and Tyler Lacoma Close One of the most exciting changes Google made to its Chrome OS platform in recent years was the addition of Android app support in 2016. While Chrome OS could already run browser extensions and web apps, the addition of Android apps has dramatically increased the platform’s value.
Update Chrome OS Enable the Google Play Store Download and install your Android apps Change app permissions or uninstall Android app extra tips For Chromebooks that don’t support Android A note about Android on Chromebooks Nearly all Chromebooks launched in or after 2019 support Android apps and already have the Google Play Store enabled — there’s nothing you need to do. However, there are models new and old that simply can’t run Android apps due to hardware limitations. If you’re not sure if your Chromebook qualifies, Google provides an extensive list.
 The company says it will continue to “evaluate more devices.” Difficulty Duration What You Need Chromebook (preferably one launched after 2019, but not required) Keep in mind that not every Android app will run on your qualified Chromebook. Again, this is due to hardware limitations because the developer hasn’t released an app that, for example, runs natively on Intel processors. Also, keep in mind that Android apps consume local storage, so be wary about downloading all your favorites. These apps cannot be sideloaded to an SD card.
Read on to find out how to get Android apps on a Chromebook. If your device doesn’t qualify (yet), then we’ll suggest an alternative.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Update Chrome OS First, let’s make sure that your Chromebook is running Chrome OS version 53 or newer.
 Since Chrome OS is currently on around its 96th version, this probably isn't an issue, but it's important to make sure.
Step 1: Click the Quick Settings Panel (beside the system clock) followed by the Settings cog on the pop-up menu.
Step 2: When the Settings window opens, select About Chrome OS listed on the left.
How to get Photoshop for free Here’s how to quickly and easily convert a PDF to Excel How to send a text message from a computer Step 3: On the right, you’ll see the platform automatically update if a newer version is available. If it doesn’t automatically update, click the Check for Updates button and restart as requested.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Enable the Google Play Store You probably already have the Google Play Store enabled, but if it’s not clearly visible on the Shelf or Launcher, here’s how to make sure it’s switched on.
Step 1: Click the Quick Setting s panel (system clock) followed by the Settings cog on the pop-up menu.
Step 2: Select Apps listed on the left.
Step 3: Select Google Play Store listed on the right.
If the Google Play Store is enabled, you’ll see a Remove button. If not, move on to the next step.
Step 4: Click the Turn On button displayed next to Install Apps and Games from Google Play on Your Chromebook.
Step 5: Select More in the pop-up window.
Step 6: Select I Agree after reading Google’s Terms of Service.
Step 7: The Google Play Store appears on the screen. Accept the additional terms and conditions.
Now you can proceed to the next section.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Download and install your Android apps The process of installing Android apps from the Play Store on a Chromebook is similar to doing so on an Android device. You’ll find that the Play Store will be formatted for a tablet-style screen. Other Android apps can work the same way — an app will take on the tablet user interface if the developer enabled it. Otherwise, they’ll scale to the Chromebook’s larger screen or visually remain in smartphone mode. For the latter, they can crash if you force a full-screen window.
Step 1: To install an app, locate it in the Play Store, click on its entry, and click the green Install button.
Note: Android apps that are not compatible with your Chromebook will not appear on the Play Store.
Step 2: The app will download and install. When finished, click the green Open button or open the app from the Launcher.
Step 3: Authorize permissions as needed. For instance, Microsoft Word requests access to media, photos, and files. Click Allow or Deny.
You can manage Android apps like other Chrome OS apps. The same window controls are located in the upper-right corner, while the Back arrow key resides in the top-left corner, allowing you to easily navigate through the app.
Note: Some apps may be “ instant apps, ” which means you can open and try them out before downloading them. This is a great way to test out how an Android app functions before you choose to fully install it.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Change app permissions or uninstall Step 1: Click the Quick Settings panel (system clock) followed by the Settings cog on the pop-up menu.
Step 2: Select Apps listed on the left.
Step 3: Select Manage Your Apps listed on the right.
Step 4: Click on the app you want to modify or delete.
Step 5: To modify the permissions, click the Toggle next to each to switch them on or off. For example, Microsoft Word can access storage but not the camera, microphone, or contacts.
If you just want to uninstall the app, click the Uninstall button instead.
Android app extra tips Chromebook type : The quality of your Android app experience will vary based on your Chromebook. For example, Chromebooks with touchscreens, and particularly 2-in-1s, will provide the best Android app experience. System components like accelerometers will make playing games and other tasks more enjoyable as well. Remember, always update Chrome OS before trying to download Android apps! Syncing : Your Android apps, like other apps, will try to automatically sync to the data in any other Chromebooks you are logged on to. However, they may not sync if you are using the app on a non-Chrome device.
Administrators : Administrator settings may block the ability to add the Chrome Store or Android Apps to your computer. If you’re at work or school, you may need to secure permissions or move to a different network.
Image used with permission by copyright holder For Chromebooks that don’t support Android Chromebooks either support the Google Play Store, or they don’t. The underlying hardware must support Android, and jumping into the developer channel won’t magically make Android apps work. Again, consult Google’s list to see if your device supports the platform. It’s either in the Stable Channel or marked as “planned.” One possible workaround is to sideload Android apps using Linux. This can be useful for those who prefer Linux commands and could make some Android apps more stable on a Chromebook. Also, sideloading apps means you don’t have to get your apps through the Play Store, which can make it easier to access some apps that you may want to use.
However, there’s a catch — the process isn’t easy. You need to be comfortable with Linux and Android APKs to make the whole thing work. Here are a few other things to consider: Installing Android apps outside the Google Play Store is dangerous, as they could contain malware.
Android apps simply may not run normally on your Chromebook’s hardware.
Your Chromebook may not have adequate space to host the Android tools and apps.
If you want to take the risk, use the following steps.
Step 1: Click the Quick Settings panel (system clock) followed by the Settings cog on the pop-up menu.
Step 2: Select Advanced , then Developers.
Step 3: Look for Linux Development Environment , and select Turn On.
 Linux will take several minutes to set up. Confirm the on-screen instructions to proceed.
Step 4: Linux should install with its terminal open and ready for commands. Now, you’ll need the tools and APK to sideload your Android apps. Type/Paste the folllowing command to download the ADB tools: sudo apt-get install android-tools-adb -y Step 5: With the Linux Terminal still open, type the following command: adb connect 100.115.92.2:5555 Step 6: In the pop-up window to Allow USB Debugging , check the box next to Always Allow and then select OK.
Step 7: Install the Android APK. To sideload a downloaded Android APK, use the following command in the Linux Terminal: adb install appname.apk The whole process is certainly not for everyone, but those who are happy to use Linux will find it a great way to run Android apps without the Play Store.
A note about Android on Chromebooks In previous versions of Android, the framework couldn't run natively on Chrome OS, and instead has to use a virtual environment. This is now quickly changing as Android 11 is being adopted by a wide variety of Chromebooks. The Android 11 update allows Android apps to work seamlessly with Chrome with increased security, decreased bugs, and overall smoother performance. That's one reason it's a good idea to have a newer Chromebook if you want to use Android apps: Google appears to be planning on adding Android 11 to around 100 current Chromebooks.
Editors' Recommendations How to use a blue light filter on your PC or Mac How to block an email address in Gmail How to set up multiple monitors for PC gaming How to download YouTube videos on PC, iOS, Android, and Mac How to use Split View on a Mac Android How-To Mobile Android Apps Chromebooks Google Google Chrome How-To Guides Laptops Computing Many people consider Chromebooks to be the sleeker, quicker, and even simpler cousin of the traditional laptop. Unlike a Mac or Windows system, a Chromebook mostly relies heavily on the internet for everyday tasks.
Since they’re also typically less expensive, you might be wondering how a Chromebook compares to a regular laptop, including the best laptops around. What is the difference between a Chromebook and a laptop? Are Chromebooks a waste of money or an affordable diamond in the rough? Let's find out.
What is a Chromebook? Computing While it’s not as popular as MOV or even FLAC files, you might occasionally encounter an MKV, or Matroska, file. When you’re dealing with subtitles on an audio or video track, an MKV file can come in handy.
Computing There are plenty of apps available in the Microsoft Store, but the best Windows apps can remain elusive. Calendar apps are a popular choice for those looking to improve productivity, and there are plenty of free apps you can choose from if you don't want to pay for the privilege.
To help you choose, we’ve put together a list of the best Windows 10 and Windows 11 apps for every user to try out, whether you want better productivity or just seek to be entertained.
Best Windows apps for productivity Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
