Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Acer Chromebook Vero 514 Review Chromebook vs Laptop Screenshot on a Chromebook Reset a Chromebook Best Chromebooks Chromebook Problems Split Screen on a Chromebook Home Computing Guides How to get Steam on a Chromebook By Kevin Parrish Close Chromebooks aren’t designed for gaming. In fact, Google originally targeted students and schools, offering a lightweight, web-based platform powering affordable low-end devices. That has since changed, as a wider variety are now available from cheap machines to premium, high-dollar Chrome OS PCs.
Consider Steam Link for Android Install Linux Install Steam Enable the microphone Troubleshooting Linux Still, the average Chromebook isn’t really designed for gamers. Sure, you can run Android games if the Chromebook supports the Play Store. Heck, you can even install Steam if Linux is enabled on the machine. But does your Chromebook have the hardware and storage to run most Linux games? In many cases, not really.
If you’re curious about playing Linux games on your Chromebook, this guide shows you how to get Steam. It’s not simple, and if you despise entering console commands, turn back now, but it can open up a much wider game library on your Chromebook.
The best 2-in-1 laptops in 2023 Steam Deck 2? This leak suggests Valve is working on new hardware This update could extend the life of your Chromebook by years Consider Steam Link for Android Valve Software offers two Steam apps for Android on the Play Store: The base Steam client and Steam Link.
 This version of Steam doesn’t allow you to install and play Linux-based games, but you can certainly make purchases as seen on any other Android device. However, this app is not compatible with all Chromebooks.
Steam Link, meanwhile, turns your Chromebook into a receiver. This requires another, more robust PC that will stream its installed Steam games, regardless of the operating system, to your target Chromebook. If you have a second gaming PC , this might be the better route given Chromebooks normally don’t have the hardware — or the storage capacity for that matter — to play Linux games.
We offer a separate guide on how to play Steam games on Android using the Steam Link app.
Install Linux Image used with permission by copyright holder Google still classifies Linux support as “beta,” and it’s not available on all Chromebooks. If you’re uncertain about your Chromebook’s ability to handle Linux, Google provides a list of supporting devices.
Unfortunately, getting Steam on your Chromebook isn’t as simple as installing an Android app. The long road to Linux gaming starts here and can be a real headache if you’re not familiar with all the associated terminology and console commands.
Note: This integrated virtual machine is based on Debian 10 (Buster).
Step 1: Click on the System Clock , followed by the Gear icon on the pop-up menu. This opens the Settings screen.
Step 2: Select Linux (Beta) listed on the left.
Step 3: Click the Turn On button.
Step 4: Click Install to get Linux. The process will take around 10 minutes, possibly more.
Install Steam Image used with permission by copyright holder With the Linux container installed, we can now get Steam.
Here’s where the console commands come into play. You may want to load this guide on the Chromebook and copy/paste the commands into the Terminal. If you take this route, use Ctrl + C to copy the commands in the browser and then Ctrl + Shift + V to paste them into the Terminal window.
Step 1: Press the Crtl + Shift + T keys simultaneously (if you previously closed the Linux terminal).
Step 2: Type the following command, and then press the Enter key: echo ‘deb http://httpredir.debian.org/debian/ jessie main contrib non-free’ | sudo tee -a /etc/apt/sources.list Note: The sources.list file is stored locally and keeps a directory of repositories. Each line starts with “deb” which is the file format used to compile the binaries stored in these repositories. This command adds the repository where Steam is stored.
Step 3: Type the following command, and then press the Enter key: sudo dpkg –add-architecture i386 Note: This command adds 32-bit architecture support. The use of “sudo” — short for SuperUser DO — allows you to run programs at the high superuser security level.
Step 4: Type the following command, and then press the Enter key: sudo apt update Note: This command refreshes the list of packages currently made available to the Advanced Package Tool, which installs and uninstalls Debian software.
Step 5: You’re almost done, honest. Type the following command, and then press the Enter key: sudo apt install steam Note: This command tells the Advanced Package Tool to install Steam.
Step 6: Once Steam installs, log in to your account. You can also find the program inside the Linux Apps folder on the Launcher.
Enable the microphone If you need to trash talk while playing your favorite Linux games, the microphone needs to be enabled in Linux. It should be enabled by default, but if not, here’s how: Step 1: Click on the System Clock , followed by the Gear icon on the pop-up menu. This opens the Settings screen.
Step 2: Select Linux (Beta) listed on the left.
Step 3: Click the Toggle next to the Allow Linux to Access Your Microphone setting to switch this feature on.
Troubleshooting Linux Use these steps if you’re having issues with Linux and a reboot doesn’t help.
Update Linux packages Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 1: Click the Launcher button and open the Linux Apps folder.
Step 2: Open Terminal.
 Alternatively, you can press the Shift + Crtl + T keys simultaneously to open the Terminal.
Step 3: Type the following command, and then press the Enter key: sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get dist-upgrade Step 4: Restart the Chromebook if needed.
If you’re having problems with this command, you may need to type this first: sudo dpkg –configure -a Update the virtual machine Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 1: Open the Chrome browser.
Step 2: Type the following into the address field: chrome://components Step 3: Click the Check for Update button listed under cros-termina, as shown above.
Step 4: Restart the Chromebook if needed.
Editors' Recommendations Steam Deck OLED fixes the worst part of Valve’s handheld You’ll have to wait a long time for a Steam Deck 2 Refurbished Steam Decks are now official — here’s how to buy one Don’t worry; Armored Core VI is ‘fully supported’ on Steam Deck This secret Samsung laptop may merge ChromeOS with DeX Gaming How-To Chromebooks Google Chrome Laptops PC Gaming Software Computing Chrome Apps on your Chromebook is finally about to be replaced by Progressive Web Apps (PWA), with the latest Chrome stable version 112 as the starting point.
It's an initiative almost five years in the making, and this change brings a few notable benefits.
Computing Chromebooks are great alternatives to MacBooks and Windows 10 laptops, but they aren’t perfect. Any laptop computer is bound to have issues, and some of the most common problems faced by Chromebook users can feel difficult or even impossible to solve on their own.
From issues with updates to internet connectivity, troubleshooting common Chromebook problems doesn’t have to ruin your day. Read on to discover easy fixes for the most frequent issues Chromebook users face.
The Diagnostics app Computing Students require technology that meets their every need, whether they're in class or working remotely from home. As more and more tasks demand their time, the best Chromebooks for students can definitely rise to the challenge. They're lightweight, often light on the wallet, and even support both Android and Linux, making them a solid choice for college students as well students of other kinds.The Asus Chromebook Flip C214 is our current top pick for the best Chromebook for students, rising above the competition for its overall success in all our tests. But there are some alternatives worth checking out. Here's everything you need to know.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
