Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Acer Chromebook Vero 514 Review Chromebook vs Laptop Screenshot on a Chromebook Reset a Chromebook Best Chromebooks Chromebook Problems Split Screen on a Chromebook Home Computing Reviews HP Elite C1030 Chromebook review: Secure, manageable, and really expensive By Mark Coppock Close Strong performance Excellent 3:2 display Outstanding keyboard and touchpad Solid build quality and conservative good looks Chrome OS Enterprise perpetual license included Average battery life Active pen is optional Very expensive Most people won’t spend more than $1,000 for a Chromebook.
 There are far too many options for much less money that can run Chrome OS like a dream. But the growing segment of business Chromebooks has shown there’s an interest in premium Chromebooks that have all the manageability and security tools an IT department will need.
Design Performance Display Keyboard and touchpad Battery life Chrome OS Enterprise Our take HP’s new Elite C1030 Chromebook Enterprise fits right into that new trend.
The HP Elite Dragonfly Chromebook looks like the best Chromebook ever made HP’s refreshed EliteBook, ZBook Firefly come with a new pandemic-ready feature HP unveils the Elite Dragonfly, a laptop featuring a 1000-nit display I had the opportunity to review a nearly top-of-the-line version of the Elite C1030 Chromebook, which costs a very premium $1,529 for an Intel 11th-gen Core i7-10610U vPro CPU, 16GB of RAM , a 256GB PCIe solid-state drive (SSD), and a 13.5-inch IPS display with a 3:2 aspect ratio and a 13.5-inch WUXGA+ (1,920 x 1,280) resolution.
The price also includes a perpetual Chrome OS Enterprise license that’s normally $50 a year. That’s a load of cash for a Chromebook — does the Elite C1030 deserve its high price? Design To begin with, this is a good-looking laptop. It follows HP’s Elite aesthetic, which is modern yet conservative. Yes, the chassis is all silver, and that sometimes comes across as generic. But there’s something about the way HP utilized contrast, with matte silver on the top and bottom and shiny silver on the sides, that makes it stand out.
The lid is rounded at the edges, and there’s just enough of an angle on the chassis bottom — it just works. The Lenovo ThinkPad C13 Yoga Chromebook is another enterprise machine that sports the iconic ThinkPad look and feel — all black with a soft coating — while the consumer-oriented Acer Chromebook Spin 713 has a more angled look and a darker gray that’s also appealing. All are attractive choices, but the HP Elite C1030 ranks among my favorites.
Mark Coppock/Digital Trends The HP Elite C1030 Chromebook benefits from smaller bezels than both of those laptops , coming in at a 90% screen-to-body ratio that looks far more contemporary. The bottom chin is even relatively small for a 2-in-1 that needs a complex hinge. The HP and Acer both employ 3:2 aspect ratio displays and so are taller than the Lenovo, which has the old-school 16:9 aspect ratio.
Even so, thanks to its smaller bezels, the Elite C1030 Chromebook is smaller in width and height than the ThinkPad C13 Yoga Chromebook and the Chromebook Spin 713 while still offering the larger palm rest and touchpad common to laptops with taller displays. The HP comes in at 0.7 inches thick and 2.87 pounds, compared with the Lenovo at 0.7 inches and 3.3 pounds and the Acer at 0.66 inches and 3.02 pounds.
The Elite C1030 Chromebook is solid as a rock.
In terms of build quality, the Elite C1030 Chromebook is solid as a rock, at least as much as the ThinkPad C13 Yoga Chromebook, and it’s more robust than the Chromebook Spin 713. The enterprise systems were both subjected to military testing for durability, and it shows — they’re in a different class, as good as any premium laptop on the market today. The Elite C1030 Chromebook’s hinge does require two hands to open, but it keeps the display in place through all its four modes — clamshell, tent, presentation, and media.
HP also builds in a few security features that are unusual on Chromebooks today. First is the fingerprint scanner that offers passwordless login and works as well as any Windows 10 Hello fingerprint scanner. Second is the switch to turn the webcam on and off electronically, something HP borrowed from earlier Spectre machines (which have since switched to a physical webcam blocker).
Finally, HP offers the world’s first (optional) privacy screen that blocks viewing from any angle but straight on. My review unit didn’t equip that display, but I’ve seen it on Windows 10 machines, and it’s impressive.
Previous Next 1 2 Mark Coppock/Digital Trends Mark Coppock/Digital Trends Connectivity is solid but not spectacular. You’ll find a 3.5mm audio jack, a USB-C 3.2 port, and a Kensington lock port on the left-hand side. On the right-hand side is another USB-C 3.2 port, a USB-A 3.2 port, and a microSD reader. Wireless connectivity is provided by Wi-Fi 6 and Bluetooth 5.0.
Performance My review unit was built around a 1oth-gen Intel Core i7-10610U vPro CPU, making it a powerfully equipped Chrome OS laptop. That operating system is much more lightweight than Windows 10 or Mac, and a Core i7 of any stripe will perform well. Add in the 16GB of RAM and fast 256GB PCIe SSD, and you have a recipe for a Chromebook that won’t slow you down.
We don’t have many objective benchmarks that we can run on Chromebooks, so much of my analysis is subjective. The Elite C1030 Chromebook did score 1,102 in the Geekbench single-core test and 3,216 in the multicore test, which is well behind Windows 10 laptops but ahead of the Acer Chromebook Spin 713 with its Core i5-10210U CPU (966 and 3,040, respectively) and the Lenovo ThinkPad C13 Yoga Chromebook running AMD’s Chrome OS-optimized Ryzen 5 3500C (907 and 2,739).
In the Speedometer 2.0 benchmark that measures web application responsiveness, the HP hit 114, as compared with the Lenovo at 86 and the Acer at 101.
Mark Coppock/Digital Trends Subjectively, then, I’ll just say that you’ll have to work really hard to slow down the Elite C1030 Chromebook. I opened scads of Chrome tabs and had multiple Android apps running in the background, and I couldn’t get the thing to falter. I doubt that you’ll experience any performance hiccups no matter what you throw at the machine.
I could even game a bit. The 10th-gen CPU is limited to Intel’s older UHD graphics, but it still handled games like Asphalt 9: Legacy without any lag or hesitation. You should be able to do some light gaming on the Elite C1030 Chromebook to go with all that work you’ll be doing.
Display The Elite C1030 Chromebook enjoys a 13.5-inch WUXGA+ (1,920 x 1,280) display in the productivity-friendly 3:2 aspect ratio. I can’t subject it to my colorimeter’s testing; that’s just not supported in Chrome OS. However, I found the display to be plenty bright (HP promises 400 nits of brightness) in all the lighting conditions I tested except outside in the bright sunlight — which is to be expected. Colors popped without seeming oversaturated, but without my colorimeter, I can’t attest to the accuracy.
Looking at images side by side with the Dell XPS 13 — which has good but not great colors — I couldn’t tell any difference. Finally, the contrast seemed sufficient, with black text on white backgrounds showing up nicely and images looking like they possessed sufficient depth.
Mark Coppock/Digital Trends The Acer Chromebook Spin 713 benefitted from greater sharpness at 2,256 x 1,504 on its 13.5-inch 3:2 display. I would have appreciated that on the HP, but I can’t say I experienced any noticeable graininess on the Elite C1030 Chromebook. I enjoyed the display more than the 16:9 panel on the Lenovo Thinkpad C13 Yoga Chromebook, which seemed cramped to me.
Most users will love this display, especially seeing more vertical information thanks to the taller aspect ratio. Media consumption was just fine, as was productivity work, and I have no real complaints.
Keyboard and touchpad HP makes great keyboards, and you’ll find them on its Spectre and Elite lineups. The Elite C1030 Chromebook is no different, with an island keyboard that sports silver caps with legible gray lettering, plenty of spacing, and a very crisp mechanism that doesn’t require a ton of pressure to engage yet provides a satisfying bottoming action that lets you know you’ve struck a key.
It’s as good a keyboard as you’ll find on any Windows 10 laptop. It’s better than the Chromebook average — including the two I’ve highlighted in this review — and rivals the Magic Keyboard on Apple’s latest MacBooks. There are the usual Chrome OS five levels of backlighting brightness that let you fine-tune how much light your keyboard gives off.
Previous Next 1 3 Mark Coppock/Digital Trends Mark Coppock/Digital Trends Mark Coppock/Digital Trends The touchpad is larger than usual thanks to the taller display’s extra space, and it works extremely well. It’s smooth and precise and does a great job with the suite of Chrome OS multitouch gestures. The touch display is also responsive, and it supports an optional HP active pen for anyone who wants to ink on their Chromebook.
Battery life The Elite C1030 Chromebook has a 50 watt-hour battery to go with its reasonable resolution and fast CPU. I wasn’t exactly sure what kind of battery life to expect.
As it turns out, the HP fell in between the other two Chromebooks I’ve mentioned in this review. It managed 8.5 hours on our web browsing test that loops through a series of popular websites, as compared to the Acer Chromebook Spin 713, which exceeded 11 hours, and the ThinkPad C13 Yoga Chromebook, which made it to 7.25 hours. On our video tests using a Full HD Avengers trailer, the Elite C1030 Chromebook hit 10.5 hours, compared to 10 hours for the Acer and only about 7.5 hours for the Lenovo. Those would be mediocre scores compared to the universe of Windows 10 laptops, but they’re average for the recent Chromebooks we’ve tested.
You’ll probably get a full day’s work from the Elite C1030 Chromebook, but not much more than that.
Chrome OS Enterprise As mentioned in the introduction, HP included a perpetual license for Google Chrome OS Enterprise, which usually costs $50 a year, with this configuration of the Elite C1030 Chromebook. That means you get the enterprise-oriented controls and plug-ins that enhance security and remote management forever.
Your organization will be able to manage the Google Play Store to regulate which apps are installed, and Google Chrome browser extension support will also come under company control. Other features include single sign-on, support for Microsoft’s Active Directory, and 24/7 enterprise support that goes above and beyond what you usually get from Google.
Mark Coppock/Digital Trends HP also talks a bit about Parallels Desktop for HP Chrome Enterprise, a virtual machine solution that lets an organization make Windows 10 emulation available to its fleet of Elite C1030 Chromebooks with minimal fuss. The solution is easy to manage and provides enhanced capabilities for HP’s enterprise customers. It’s not included with the laptop, but it’s an interesting option nonetheless.
Our take The HP Elite C1030 Chromebook is aimed at enterprise customers, period. It’s swift and has the best security features you’ll find on a Chromebook as well as the option of a perpetual Chrome OS Enterprise license. These all contribute to a fine corporate laptop. The purchase price is also aimed at enterprises that have a profound need for security and manageability.
You can get just as nice a Chromebook in terms of hardware and performance for half the money. But you won’t get a laptop that will fit seamlessly in a corporation’s fleet of machines.
Are there any alternatives? The Lenovo C13 Yoga Chromebook offers the same Chrome OS Enterprise support as the HP, without the same level of enhanced security. It’s also roughly the same price as a similarly configured AMD Ryzen 7 3700C CPU with 16GB of RAM and a 256GB SSD.
I haven’t mentioned it in this review, but the Dell Latitude 7410 Chromebook is a comparable enterprise machine that’s a few hundred dollars less expensive, coming in at $1,279 on sale for a machine with the same specs as our Elite C1030 Chromebook review unit (except for Dell’s 14-inch display). You’ll get similar build quality and performance, but none of the enhanced security features.
Finally, if you don’t need the Chrome OS Enterprise features, then the Acer Chromebook Spin 713 is a solid choice. It’s also quite fast and well built, and it costs about half as much money for a similar configuration.
How long will it last? The Elite C1030 Chromebook is extremely well built and equipped to power Chrome OS for years to come. You’ll also appreciate the three-year warranty that’s included with our review unit.
Should you buy it? If you’re an enterprise customer looking for a secure and manageable Chromebook, then the Elite C1030 Chromebook should be on your shortlist. Otherwise, you’ll want to save your money and go with a consumer Chromebook instead.
Editors' Recommendations CES 2023: HP’s Dragonfly Pro Chromebook is the most advanced Chromebook I’ve eve seen The HP Chromebook x2 11 is a premium 2-in-1 run by a Qualcomm Snapdragon chip HP is putting Tile trackers in its Elite Dragonfly laptops HP’s new Zbook, EliteBook 800 workstations go 4K with 8th-gen Intel CPUs Chromebooks Google Chrome Laptop Reviews Laptops Product Reviews Windows Reviews Computing The design of Apple's Magic Mouse continues to be a major complaint among Mac users, a blight on Apple's otherwise fantastic design choices. The ergonomics are inhuman, it still uses a Lightning charging port (even on the new M3 iMac), and it can't be charged while being used.
However, an engineer has introduced his design concept that would not only solve the charging issue on the Magic Mouse but also make the design ergonomic and comfortable for natural handling.
Computing Lenovo is probably one of the best-known laptop makers, especially since they have an incredibly wide variety of them to choose from. That also means they have an excellent selection of gaming laptops, so you can hone in on something that fits your budget. That's especially the case with the ongoing early Black Friday deals that are seeing laptops being cut down in price across the board. That said, Lenovo's selection of gaming laptops is too wide for us to include all their active deals here, so we've selected some of our favorites for both AMD and Intel CPUs. Also, if you're not sure of where to start, you should check out our list of best Lenovo laptops for some good options.
Best Lenovo Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals (AMD) Lenovo has a wider selection of AMD gaming laptops, which is great if you want to go with something AMD-powered. Unfortunately, there aren't any good deals on Lenovo laptops with both an AMD CPU and GPU, but the selection below is wide enough to pick something that fits your needs a bit better. And, if you want something with an RTX 4090 on a budget, then the AMD version is probably the cheapest for Lenovo.
Computing Printers are complicated machines featuring a mix of plastics, metals, electronics, and components, some of which are potentially flagged as hazardous waste. In 2023, it's more important than ever to be kind to the planet, and there are several environmentally safe ways to dispose of a printer.
Even the best printers in the world can reach the end of their life after several years if ink or toner is no longer available. A well-loved printer can suffer from accumulated wear and tear or damage from a catastrophic power surge that's too expensive to repair.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
