Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Acer Chromebook Vero 514 Review Chromebook vs Laptop Screenshot on a Chromebook Reset a Chromebook Best Chromebooks Chromebook Problems Split Screen on a Chromebook Home Computing Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? HP Elite Dragonfly Chromebook review: The new standard-bearer By Mark Coppock Close Outstanding Chrome OS performance Superior haptic touchpad Beautiful display Attractive aesthetic Google Enterprise support with vPro Excellent connectivity with Thunderbolt 4 Expensive Below-average battery life Chromebooks continue to grow in excellence, but there’s never been a Chromebook that felt what I would call “cutting edge.” Design Ports Performance Display Keyboard, touchpad, and webcam Security and management Battery life Pricing and configurations Our take And then, there’s the HP Elite Dragonfly Chromebook. There are several platform-first innovations tucked inside this little Chromebook, including a haptic touchpad, an Intel vPro processor, and a 5-megapixel webcam.
HP’s new Envy x360 14 looks like a killer value for what you get CES 2023: HP’s Dragonfly Pro Chromebook is the most advanced Chromebook I’ve eve seen Asus ZenBook S 13 Flip vs. HP Spectre x360 13.5: you can’t go wrong I reviewed a $1,734 configuration of the Elite Dragonfly Chromebook with a 12th-gen Intel Core i5-1245U with vPro and a 13.5-inch 3:2 WXUGA (2256 x 1504) IPS display. Like all Elite Dragonfly machines, the 2-in-1 was thin, light, and attractive, and thanks to the CPU, it was incredibly fast. There’s just never been a Chromebook this premium.
Design Mark Coppock / Digital Trends The Elite Dragonfly Chromebook is constructed of a magnesium-aluminum alloy contributing to its light weight of 2.8 pounds. As I’ve seen with such laptops , there’s some bending in the lid and flex in the keyboard deck. It’s not a knock against the laptop, given that the alloy itself is quite strong and the machine will hold up to some abuse. HP also subjected the laptop to MIL-STD 810H military test for robustness.
But it’s still a different rigidity than you’ll find in all-aluminum designs. The HP Elite C1030 Chromebook and Lenovo ThinkPad C13 Yoga Chromebook are two such laptops , and both feel more solid. The Elite Dragonfly Chromebook’s hinge is perfect, though, allowing the lid to be opened with one hand yet holding the display in place in clamshell, tent, media, and tablet modes.
In addition to being lightweight, the Elite Dragonfly Chromebook is thin at 0.65 inches. Its display bezels are thin along the sides but a little larger than other modern devices on the top and bottom.
It has an understated and elegant look.
Given the 13.5-inch 3:2 display, the 2-in-1 is nicely sized, about an inch less wide than thin-and-light 14-inch 2-in-1s but equally as deep as those with 16:10 displays. It’s within fractions of an inch of the Elite C1030 Chromebook, which also has a 13.5-inch 3:2 display. Overall, the Elite Dragonfly Chromebook is a very compact laptop given the display size.
The Elite Dragonfly Chromebook shares the same aesthetic as the rest of the Elite Dragonfly line. It’s a dark blue color that borders on black, and its lines are simple and minimalist. There are some chrome accents on the hinges and a chrome HP logo on the lid; otherwise, the laptop is unadorned. It’s an understated and elegant look that’s attractive without standing out. The Elite C1030 Chromebook is flashier, while the upcoming Lenovo ThinkPad C14 Chromebook Enterprise looks dull by comparison.
Ports Connectivity is a real strength not only for such a thin and light laptop but also for a Chromebook. First, there are two USB-C ports with Thunderbolt 4 support, which is unusual for a Chrome OS laptop. That opens up a range of expansion options, including working with all of HP’s excellent Thunderbolt docks with up to three external displays.
There’s also a USB-A 3.2 Gen 2 port, a full-size HDMI 2.0 port, a 3.5mm audio jack, and a microSD card reader.
Wi-Fi 6E and Bluetooth 5.2 provide wireless connectivity, and both 4G LTE and 5G WWAN options are available.
Performance Mark Coppock/Digital Trends My review unit was equipped with the Intel 12th-gen Core i5-1245U with vPro, a 15-watt CPU with 10 cores (two Performance and eight Efficient) and 12 threads. It’s Intel’s mid-range processor for thin-and-light laptops , with the P-series running at 28 watts and lower-power U-series versions running at 9 watts. Chrome OS is a very lightweight and efficient operating system, making the Core i5-1245U almost overkill for the platform. Combined with the 8GB of RAM in my review unit, the Elite Dragonfly Chromebook should fly — and you can configure the machine with an insane 32GB of RAM.
I can’t run our full suite of benchmarks on Chromebooks, but in the Android version of Geekbench 5, the Elite Dragonfly Chromebook achieved one of the highest scores we’ve seen on a Chrome OS laptop. It was slightly slower in multi-core mode than the Asus Chromebook Flip CX5 with an 11th-gen four-core/eight-thread Core i5-1135G7, but significantly faster in single-core mode. And in the Speedometer 2.0 web benchmark, the HP achieved the highest score we’ve recorded at 206, well ahead of the Chromebook Flip CX5.
Simply put, you’ll have to work hard to overwhelm the Elite Dragonfly Chromebook. I opened numerous Chrome tabs and ran several Android apps in the background and couldn’t get the laptop to slow down.
Geekbench 5 (single / multi) Speedometer 2.0 HP Elite Dragonfly Chromebook (Core i5-1245U) 1,394 / 4,055 206 HP Elite C1030 Chromebook (Core i7-10610U) 1,102 / 3,216 114 Acer Chromebook Spin 513 (MediaTek Kompanio 1380) 936 / 3,438 76 HP Chromebook x360 14c (Core i3-1125G4) 898 / 2,866 N/A HP Chromebook x2 11 (Qualcomm Snapdragon 7c) 590 / 1,689 45 Asus Chromebook Flip CX5 (Core i5-1135G7) 1,190 / 4,151 163 Display Mark Coppock/Digital Trends Out of the box, I was impressed with the 13.5-inch 3:2 WXUGA (2,256 x 1,504) IPS display. The background featured a cloth floral arrangement against a deep black backdrop, and I had to check the specs to ensure the panel was indeed IPS and not OLED. As I tested the laptop, I found the colors to be bright and dynamic, and the display was a pleasure to use.
I can’t apply my colorimeter to Chromebooks and can only provide my subjective experience. But the display was bright enough to use in my typical working environments, and black text popped on a white background. It’s an excellent display for productivity users and creators and one of the better displays I’ve seen on a Chromebook.
A 1000-nit HP SureView privacy screen option makes the display impossible to read from outside of a direct-on angle. It’s a great display for anyone who’s particularly worried about the privacy of their data.
Audio is provided by four speakers, two upward-firing above the keyboard and two downward-firing at the front bottom of the chassis. The setup put out plenty of sound that was just a tiny bit distorted at full volume, with clear mids and highs and a bit of bass. It was good enough for watching YouTube videos and the occasional Netflix show, but music lovers and bingers will want to pull out their favorite pair of headphones.
Keyboard, touchpad, and webcam Mark Coppock/Digital Trends The keyboard has larger keycaps with tight spacing, and the switches are light and springy with a nice click when bottoming out. It’s a very precise and comfortable keyboard that’s as good as HP’s Spectre keyboards which are among the best Windows versions.
The 3:2 touchpad is a haptic version, and it’s excellent. It’s large with a very comfortable surface, and it responds immediately to taps and clicks. The feedback felt natural and was reliable during my testing. It was a great overall experience, with the entire touchpad surface responding equally to input. Not only does the haptic mechanism provide feedback for clicks, but it also lets you know when you’ve snapped a window to either side and when you move a desktop in multiple desktop mode. There are apparently more effects that I didn’t discover during my testing, but clearly, the platform is there to make great use of the haptic technology.
The display is touch-enabled, of course, and works as well as usual. It supports an active pen, which is included with some configurations and magnetically attaches to the right side of the chassis for storage and wireless charging. I found the pen to support Chrome OS inking with precision and reliability.
The webcam is a 5MP version, providing excellent resolution for high-quality video streaming. The Elite Dragonfly Chromebook is an outstanding laptop for hybrid workers who need videoconferencing to stay connected to colleagues. The webcam has a physical slider for privacy.
Security and management The Elite Dragonfly Chromebook is one of the few Chrome OS laptops with biometric login, in this case, a fingerprint reader located on the palm rest. It worked quickly and reliably in my testing and made the Chromebook much more convenient to use.
More important, though, are the security and management features afforded by Chrome OS Enterprise coupled with the Intel vPro CPU. Chrome OS is already a secure operating system, but the Enterprise version takes things to an entirely new level. Most importantly, a company’s IT department can approve and block apps and extensions, remotely disable and wipe machines, and protect an entire fleet with advanced security controls.
The vPro CPU enables total memory encryption (TME) and Keylocker, safeguarding sensitive data from hackers. The Google Admin Console allows centralized control over Keylocker, TME, Thunderbolt driver and firmware versions, and management of Wi-Fi configurations.
Battery life Mark Coppock/Digital Trends The Elite Dragonfly Chromebooks packs 50 watt-hours of battery capacity into its small frame, which isn’t a huge amount for a 13.5-inch laptop. Chrome OS is a very efficient operating system, though, while the Core i5-1245U is a lower-watt part in Intel’s 12th-gen lineup. It’s going up against some ARM CPUs in our comparison group, though, so I wasn’t entirely sure what kind of battery life to expect.
What I saw was slightly disappointing battery life. The Elite Dragonfly Chromebook managed just eight hours in our web browsing test that cycles through a handful of complex and popular websites. That might not sound all that bad, and it’s not. But in the context of other Chromebooks, which tend to excel in battery life, it’s definitely below average. In our video test that loops a local 1080p movie trailer, the Elite Dragonfly Chromebook hit 9.25 hours. Again, that’s below average, even if Chrome OS laptops typically don’t do as well in this test.
Overall, I’d rate battery life as less than stellar. Depending on your workflow, you may or may not get a full day’s work on a single charge. If this laptop has a weakness, longevity is it.
Web browsing Video HP Elite Dragonfly Chromebook (Core i5-1245U) 7 hours, 59 minutes 9 hours, 13 minutes HP Elite C1030 Chromebook (Core i7-10610U) 8 hours, 33 minutes 10 hours, 34 minutes Acer Chromebook Spin 513 (MediaTek Kompanio 1380) 11 hours, 7 minutes 12 hours, 42 minutes HP Chromebook x360 14c (Core i3-1125G4) 7 hours, 44 minutes 8 hours, 2 minutes HP Chromebook x2 11 (Qualcomm Snapdragon 7c) 12 hours, 42 minutes 10 hours, 59 minutes Asus Chromebook Flip CX5 (Core i5-1135G7) 9 hours, 25 minutes 8 hours, 50 minutes Pricing and configurations Mark Coppock/Digital Trends Pricing for the Elite Dragonfly Chromebook is quite different between pre-configured models and custom configurations, with the latter being considerably more expensive. I’m only seeing one pre-configured model on HP’s website as I write this review, so I’ll list the pricing for custom-configured models here. Just be aware that there will be less expensive pre-configured models available. My review unit costs $1,734 configured with a Core i5-1245P with vPro, 8GB of RAM , a 256GB PCIe SSD, and the 13.5-inch QHD+ (2256 x 1504) IPS display.
The entry-level pre-configured model is $1,149 with a Core i3-1215U, 8GB of RAM , a 128GB PCIe SSD, and a 13.5-inch WUXGA+ (1920 x 1280) display. At the high end, you’ll spend $2,278 for a Core i7-1265U with vPro, 32GB of RAM , a 512GB PCIe SSD, a 13.5-inch WUXGA+ Sure View Privacy screen, and 5G WWAN support.
Our take There’s no other Chrome OS laptop quite like the Elite Dragonfly Chromebook. Its haptic touchpad is better than most touchpads on any platform, coming in a close second to Apple’s Force Touch touchpads. Its vPro CPU enables extensive security and management for large organizations. And when fully configured, it’s the fastest Chromebook you can buy.
No, this isn’t a Chromebook that many consumers are likely to buy, mainly because of the high price. But any business looking for a secure, manageable, high-performing, and innovative Chromebook now has just one logical choice.
Are there any alternatives? Right now, there really aren’t any legitimate alternatives. HP has jumped far ahead of the curve with the Elite Dragonfly Chromebook, with Intel 12th-gen CPUs with vPro that no other Chrome OS laptop can match.
The Lenovo ThinkPad C14 Chromebook Enterprise is a clamshell laptop with 12th-Gen Intel processors with vPro, but it’s listed as “coming soon.” Once it arrives, it still won’t have a haptic touchpad or 2-in-1 form factor.
If you don’t need the Chrome OS Enterprise features of the Elite Dragonfly Chromebook, then there are many less expensive machines to consider. However, none of them will have the wealth of features that the HP enjoys.
How long will it last? The Elite Dragonfly Chromebook is built well enough to last through years of abuse, and it’s equipped to power Chrome OS for years to come. The one-year warranty is particularly disappointing for such an expensive laptop, though.
Should you buy it? Yes, if you’re a business that’s looking for the most advanced, secure, and manageable Chromebook available today. Consumer Chromebook buyers should look elsewhere.
Editors' Recommendations The best 2-in-1 laptops in 2023 HP’s new Dragonfly Pro targets potential MacBook buyers at CES 2023 Asus ZenBook S 13 Flip vs. HP Envy x360 13: it comes down to price The HP Dragonfly Folio G3 brings back iconic pull-forward design Dell XPS 13 2-in-1 vs. Surface Pro 8: New competition Chromebooks Google Chrome Laptop Reviews Laptops Product Reviews Computing I've always loved the HP Spectre x360 lineup. With its gem-cut edges and beautiful 3:2 aspect ratio OLED screens, it has been the top of the top when it comes to Windows 2-in-1s. So, how can HP make that perfect device even better? Its answer isn't to throw out the old design but instead to make some subtle refinements to the formula. The new 13.5-inch model takes the place of the previous Spectre x360 14, though it's only the marketing that's changed. Both devices use a 13.5-inch screen and sport very similar dimensions.
Computing At the annual Google I/O developer conference, Google announced several new features coming to Chrome OS later this year. The majority are designed to bring Android phones and Chromebooks closer together with cross-device synergies like communication and app streaming.
As discussed in a 23-minute-long breakout session video, one of the top talked-about features coming to Chrome OS soon is Camera Roll. With this one, you can open and share recent photos from your Android phone on your Chromebook. It will be coming "later this year" and will live in the Chrome OS Phone Hub. From there, you can simply drag and drop the listed photos as needed.
Computing The 2-in-1 laptop is a flexible format that can work as a standard clamshell machine while offering optional (or primary) tablet functionality. Although not typically targeted at gaming, there are some 2-in-1s that do a good job of it, so if you want to game in your off hours, or want a portable laptop and tablet that can also play games, then buying the best 2-in-1 for gaming will set you up nicely.
There are a few types of 2-in-1s to pick from, including the detachable tablet, the 360-degree convertible, and the pull-forward design, but regardless of the type, the result is a laptop that doesn't constrain. Here are some 2-in-1 laptops that are great for gaming, as well as everything else.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
