Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Acer Chromebook Vero 514 Review Chromebook vs Laptop Screenshot on a Chromebook Reset a Chromebook Best Chromebooks Chromebook Problems Split Screen on a Chromebook Home Computing Reviews Lenovo Chromebook Flex 5 review: A $410 laptop done right By Luke Larsen Close $410.00 Responsive keyboard Impressive performance Great value Under 3 pounds Bad touchpad Mediocre display Chromebooks grow more expensive every year. They also grow in quality. Display, performance, and design all improve. They’re a far cry from the cheap Chromebooks of yesteryear.
Design Display and speakers Keyboard and touchpad Performance Battery life Our take The Lenovo Flex 5 Chromebook tries to be the best of both worlds. At $410, it captures the original spirit of highly affordable laptops, while still offering an Intel Core processor, a 1080p screen, and a solid look and feel.
Best Lenovo laptop deals: Get a new workhorse for $130 One of Lenovo’s best Chromebooks is turning to Windows Lenovo leaks the world’s first gaming Chromebook — but there’s a catch Lenovo has struck the balance delicately, but not without a couple of hiccups along the way.
Design Image used with permission by copyright holder I’m not looking for anything fancy in a sub-$500 laptop. I want modern. I want thin and light. I want solid build quality. And bonus points if it’s not gaudy or plastic-looking.
The Lenovo Chromebook Flex 5 does all that better than most Chromebooks at this price. The “Graphite Grey” color is subtle, first off. Despite being made out of plastic, every surface feels firm and well built. The hinge is tight, resisting being wobbly, even when you tap and swipe on the touch screen.
I do have a couple of small complaints. The bezels are big — especially the chin. The 360-degree hinge adds extra space below the screen. On a laptop this small, it’s hard to miss. Premium Chromebooks like the Samsung Galaxy Chromebook or Asus Chromebook Flip C436 feature those thin bezels we see on Windows laptops, but they are around twice the price. It’s a problem the Dell XPS 13 2-in-1 solves by using a slightly taller screen 16:10 aspect ratio.
Despite the bezels, the Chromebook Flex 5 comes in a portable package. It’s under 3 pounds and 0.7-inches thick, just a bit bigger than a MacBook Air.
 Options like the Samsung Galaxy Chromebook or Google Pixelbook Go are far smaller — but they’re price tags aren’t.
Most Chromebooks under $500 are bulky 15-inch laptops, which is a shame. The Chromebook Flex 5 fills that void.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The Chromebook Flex 5 features a standard selection of ports, at least for a modern Chromebook. On the right side, you have a USB-C 3.1, USB-A 3.1, headphone jack, and microSD card slot. The other side includes another USB-C port and a Kensington lock. Only the right side can be used for charging the device, unfortunately.
Because it’s a 2-in-1, the Lenovo Chromebook Flex 5 includes a volume rocker and power button next to the ports. The volume rocker is squishy and hard to distinguish, which is a bit frustrating. You’ll use the volume control on the keyboard far more, but that’s no excuse for lousy buttons.
Display and speakers Image used with permission by copyright holder The Flex 5 Chromebook doesn’t have the greatest display in the world. It’s a 13.3-inch IPS LED display with a standard 1,920 x 1,080 resolution. It has a slight green tint to it, which makes pale skin tones look downright sickly.
It only brightens up to 250 nits. That’s bright enough for home use, but if you’re under heavy office lights or sitting next to a window, the glossy screen might cause heavy reflections. A matte screen may have made the screen look cheap, but would have avoided this problem.
I’ve seen far worse on Chromebooks, but options like the Google Pixelbook Go or the Samsung Galaxy Chromebook fare much better. The software on my colorimeter doesn’t work in Chrome OS to measure color precision, but the Flex 5 Chromebook isn’t likely accurate enough for creative professionals. For what a $410 Chromebook is made for, though, the screen does the trick.
The Flex 5 Chromebook has a set of upward-firing speakers, flanking the keyboard on either side. The placement is good, but they’re as tinny as laptop speakers get. The Pixelbook Go is far superior in this category.
Keyboard and touchpad Image used with permission by copyright holder The Lenovo Chromebook Flex 5 offers a pleasant typing experience. It’s the typical Chrome OS layout, outside of the oddly shortened left and right arrow keys. But the keycaps are large, the travel is plenty long, and they keypresses are responsive. Lenovo even included backlighting with five levels of brightness control. I felt right at home.
The touchpad is another story. It’s large enough, but it’s subpar in quality. The plastic, textured surface leads to skipping and sloppy tracking. Cheap touchpads like these slow down my workflow, making detailed tasks like text selection cumbersome. The click mechanism is also quite stiff and loud. As my daily driver, the touchpad was the one usability hurdle I tripped over consistently. I’m not shocked given the price, but I was hoping to be surprised. Switching back to a Google Pixelbook Go felt heavenly by comparison.
The Flex 5 Chromebook does include 720p webcam above the screen, which is serviceable for the occasional Zoom call.
Performance Image used with permission by copyright holder Many cheap Chromebooks use slow MediaTek or Intel Celeron processors. Not the Lenovo Chromebook Flex 5. It offers an Intel Core i3-10110U processor, from the latest generation of Intel chips. This is a full 15-watt processor, while many other Chromebooks use an 8-watt processor. More wattage means more potential performance, and the Lenovo Chromebook Flex 5 delivers.
Other Chromebooks that use this 10th-gen Core i3 tend to be much more expensive, such as the $800 Asus Chromebook Flip C436.
 The Flex 5 matches that processor in multi-core scores in Geekbench 5, and it’s 18% faster than the Google Pixelbook Go.
The two cores and four threads it offers might not sound impressive, and neither will 4GB of RAM. But it does feel fast. Chrome OS flies on this hardware, regardless of how many tabs you have open. That’s measured best in a test like Speedometer 2.0 that measures JavaScript performance. In web applications, the Lenovo Chromebook Flex 5 is as fast as a quad-core Core i5 Windows 10 laptop. That’s important, since it’s almost exclusively what you’ll be using this Chromebook for.
You can, of course, run Android apps on the Flex 5. 3D games like the mobile racer Asphalt 9 Legends played smoothly. The integrated graphics can’t even boot up a match of PUBG Mobile , though. As strange as it sounds, your phone will perform better. Many of these Android apps are still not well-optimized for the 16:9 aspect ratio and a cursor. That’s a problem with Android app emulation in Chrome OS in general, though, not the fault of the Flex 5.
There is a downside to a higher-wattage processor. Heat. The Lenovo Chromebook Flex 5 is not a fanless device like the Pixelbook Go. Open up a couple of YouTube videos, Slack, Spotify, and a dozen sites or so — that’s enough to hear the fans spin up and the keyboard to get warm. I never felt that the fans spun up prematurely or too often.
The laptop also comes with 64GB of eMMC storage. It’s not a ton of capacity — nor is it as fast as a solid-state drive. Unfortunately, both have become the standard for Chromebooks. As long as you handle most things in the cloud, 64GB shouldn’t be too big of a problem.
Battery life Image used with permission by copyright holder The Lenovo Chromebook Flex 5 delivers decent battery life. It’s always been a strength of Chromebooks, and a deficit of budget laptops. These two qualities meet in the Flex 5, a laptop gets better battery life than most at this price.
On average, it lasted me around six to seven hours of my daily workload. Not quite enough to get through a full workday, but close.
It’s no Pixelbook Go — or even the recent Lenovo Yoga C640 — but it should last you the majority of a workday. In our browsing test, I ran the battery to zero cycling through a selection of websites. The Lenovo Chromebook Flex 5 lasted just under eight hours. It lasted a couple of extra hours longer playing video, where I looped a video clip until it died.
Our take The Lenovo Chromebook Flex 5 is one of the better budget Chromebooks you can buy. It stands out by offering excellent performance, great battery life, and solid build quality. The touchpad isn’t great, nor is the screen. It’s not a laptop without compromises, but this $410 Chromebook is still one of the best laptops you can buy under $500.
Are there any alternatives? The 14-inch Asus Chromebook C425 is worth consideration. It doesn’t have as powerful of a processor, but it’s an impressive-looking design and costs just $443. The Google Pixelbook Go costs a bit more, but it remains my choice for the best Chromebook you can buy.
Lastly, if you’re looking for a similarly-priced Windows laptop, the Acer Swift 3 is a good choice. The $399 model comes with an 8th-gen Intel Core i3 processor, 4GB of RAM, and a 128GB SSD.
How long will it last? The Lenovo Chromebook Flex 5 should last you four or five years. Google extends software updates to older Chromebooks for many years. The warranty is a one-year limited warranty.
Should you buy it? Yes. If you’re looking for a laptop under $500, the Lenovo Chromebook Flex 5 is one of the best you can buy.
Editors' Recommendations The best Lenovo laptops for 2023: ThinkPad, Yoga, and more Best laptop deals: Save on HP, Lenovo, Dell and Apple Microsoft Surface Pro 9 vs. Lenovo IdeaPad Duet 5i: which 2-in-1 is best? Lenovo’s IdeaPad 5i is the first Chromebook with a 120Hz refresh rate Lenovo Slim 7i Pro X hands-on review: A do-it-all laptop Chromebooks Google Chrome Laptop Reviews Laptops Lenovo Product Reviews Computing Lenovo unveiled a number of new Chromebooks as part of the Mobile World Congress event. The devices include the IdeaPad Flex 5i and 3i and the IdeaPad Duet 3.
The IdeaPad 5i and 3i have 14-inch and 15-inch displays, respectively. They both have a FHD IPS panel with 400-nit peak brightness. Both of these Chromebooks are 2-in-1 convertibles. Aside from that and the screen quality, though, the two devices are actually quite different.
Computing Lenovo's best laptops have always had Intel or AMD inside, but in a first, there's now a new ThinkPad powered by Qualcomm's Snapdragon 8cx Gen 3 compute platform.
More specifically, it is the ThinkPad X13s, an ARM-powered device that's unlike a regular ThinkPad in more ways than one. With promising always-on, always-connected performance and a fantastic sustainable design, this Lenovo laptop feels different from past Windows on ARM devices, and after trying one ahead of Mobile World Congress, it dares to take on Apple's M1 MacBooks in the business realm.
Computing Lenovo has just unveiled several new gaming laptops from the Lenovo Legion line during CES 2022. The refreshed Legion family of laptops includes two 16-inch models dubbed Lenovo Legion 5i Pro and Legion 5 Pro as well as the 15-inch Lenovo Legion 5i/Legion 5.
All of the laptops come with some of the latest components, including Intel Alder Lake processors, DDR5 memory, and Nvidia's RTX 30-series mobility graphics cards.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
