Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? This Alienware gaming PC with an RTX 4060 Ti is $400 off right now By Aaron Mamiit Close Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Gamers should be extra careful when looking at gaming PC deals , as some cheap machines won’t be able to meet the requirements of today’s video games. That’s certainly not the case with the powerful Alienware Aurora R15 though, which is available from Dell with a $400 discount that slashes its price from $2,000 to $1,600. It’s not exactly affordable, but you should be ready to make a significant investment if you want a reliable gaming desktop like this one. You’ll have to hurry with your purchase though, as we’re not sure how much time remains before the savings are taken offline.
Why you should buy the Alienware Aurora R15 gaming PC The Alienware Aurora R15 challenges the performance of the best gaming PCs with its 13th-generation Intel Core i7 processor, Nvidia GeForce RTX 4060 Ti graphics card , and 16GB of RAM that’s the recommended number by our guide on everything you need to build a gaming PC.
 Not only will you have no trouble playing the best PC games with these specifications, but you’ll also be prepared for the best upcoming PC games.
 However, when you eventually need upgrades, it will be easy to swap the components of the Alienware Aurora R15 gaming PC.
There’s enough space for several AAA titles on the Alienware Aurora R15 gaming PC ’s 1TB SSD, which also comes with Windows 11 Home pre-loaded so you can start installing your favorite video games right after you hook up the machine to your gaming monitor and other necessary peripherals. It also features liquid-cooling technology, five fans, and honeycomb-shaped vents to maintain peak performance even after you’ve been playing for several hours.
The Alienware Aurora R15 gaming PC is a powerful machine that will live up to the expectations of gamers, and it’s currently on sale from Dell for $1,600. The $400 in savings on its original price of $2,000 won’t stay available forever though — it may actually be gone as soon as tomorrow — so there’s no time to waste if you’re interested in this gaming desktop.
 Add the Alienware Aurora R15 gaming PC to your cart and proceed with the checkout process as soon as possible, because if you don’t, there’s a chance that you miss out on the discount.
Editors' Recommendations The best Lenovo gaming laptop Black Friday deals right now Best Razer gaming laptop Black Friday deals worth shopping now Best Dell Black Friday deals: Save on laptops, monitors, desktop PCs The best early all-in-one PC Black Friday deals available now HTC Vive Pro Focus Plus VR headset is 68% off right now Deals Gaming Dell Computing Don't waste the processing power of your gaming PC on an aging display when you can get the Razer Raptor 27 gaming monitor for just $320 from Walmart. That's a massive $480 discount on its original price of $800. With the popularity of Razer's products, this offer may expire at any moment as stocks may get sold out quickly, so if you're already looking forward to playing the best PC games on this gaming monitor, you've got no choice but to complete the purchase immediately if you want to pocket the savings.
Why you should buy the Razer Raptor 27 gaming monitor The Razer Raptor 27 gaming monitor offers WQHD resolution on its 27-inch display, which will let you better appreciate the graphics of modern video games. The monitor also comes with a 165Hz refresh rate, which our computer monitor buying guide explains as how often the images on the screen are updated. It's faster than our recommended range of 120Hz to 144Hz, so you'll enjoy smoother movements, and with AMD's FreeSync Premium and Nvidia's G-Sync, your gameplay won't be interrupted by screen tearing and stuttering.
Computing The machine that you purchased from gaming PC deals should be paired with a display that will give justice to its power. If you haven't upgraded from a basic screen, you should think about taking advantage of Best Buy's $600 discount for the 34-inch Samsung Odyssey G8 OLED gaming monitor. As one of the retailer's early Black Friday deals, it's down to $900 from $1,500, but probably not for long because we expect a lot of interest in this bargain. You need to hurry with your purchase if you're interested, because stocks of this gaming monitor may already be running low.
Why you should buy the 34-inch Samsung Odyssey G8 OLED gaming monitor The Samsung Odyssey G8 OLED gaming monitor features a 34-inch curved screen with WQHD resolution for sharp details and more field of vision while you play the best PC games, and OLED technology that creates perfect black levels, supports wide viewing angles, and enables lightning-fast response times. For this gaming monitor, response time is at 0.03ms, and when paired with a 175Hz refresh rate, you'll be enjoying near-instant reaction times and smooth gameplay. It also comes with AMD's FreeSync Premium Pro, which eliminates screen tearing and stuttering.
Computing All of the best PC games deserve a great window on the adventure, and if you’re hoping to land one of the best monitor deals of the day, the 43-inch model of the Samsung Odyssey Neo G7 is seeing a massive discount at Best Buy. The popular 4K gaming monitor is marked down to just $500, and would regularly set you back $1,000. That makes for a 50% discount and $500 savings, and Best Buy is including free shipping with a purchase.
Why you should buy the 43-inch Samsung Odyssey Neo G7 4K gaming monitor Samsung places several monitors on our list of the best gaming monitors, and among the best 4K gaming monitors is the Samsung Odyssey Neo G7. It’s a monitor you definitely should consider if you’re looking to upgrade your gaming experience or jump into something immersive right from the get-go. At the top of its feature set is an incredible, lifelike image. In addition to its 4K resolution, the Samsung Odyssey Neo G7 has a high dynamic range of HDR600, which offers a contrast ratio superior to many gaming monitors. These combine with Quantum Matrix Technology to create an unrivaled visual experience no matter what your favorite type of game may be.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
