Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Snag an Alienware gaming laptop with an RTX 4090 while it’s $800 off By Aaron Mamiit Close Digital Trends While some gaming laptop deals can get you a dependable device for a cheap price, some gamers want to go all out when buying their next machine. If you’re willing to make a significant investment, but you were hoping to take advantage of a discount, you should check out Dell’s offer for the Alienware m16. From its original price of $3,750, it’s down to $2,950 for savings of $800 — it’s still not cheap, but it’s the price you should be willing to pay for a future-proof gaming laptop. You need to hurry with your purchase though, as its price could go back to normal at any moment.
Why you should buy the Alienware m16 gaming laptop If you want a gaming laptop that’s not only capable of playing the best PC games at the highest settings, but also prepared to run upcoming PC games for the next few years, you can’t go wrong with the Alienware m16. With its 13th-generation Intel Core i9 processor, Nvidia GeForce RTX 4090 graphics card , and 64GB of RAM that’s beyond the recommended figure by our guide on how much RAM do you need , the Alienware m16 won’t need any upgrading any time soon.
The high-octane performance of the Alienware m16 will be a waste if it doesn’t have a display that will give it justice, but fortunately, it’s equipped with a 16-inch screen featuring Full HD+ resolution and a 480Hz refresh rate, so gameplay will be immensely sharp, colorful, and smooth. The gaming laptop also comes with Windows 11 Home in a 4TB SSD, which will give you more than enough space for multiple AAA titles and all their necessary updates and optional DLCs.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
There are laptop deals for work and for school, but if you want a powerful device for gaming, you should go for a machine like the Alienware m16. At its discounted price of $2,950 from $3,750, it’s still not considered affordable, but it’s actually a steal because of the experience that you’ll get from it. You can also use the $800 in savings to expand your video game library and to buy more accessories. You’re going to have to hurry if you want to get the Alienware m16 gaming laptop for less expensive than usual though, as we’re not sure how much time is remaining on this offer.
Editors' Recommendations Best Black Friday gaming laptop deals: Cheapest prices today Best Alienware gaming laptop Black Friday deals — save $800 Best Razer gaming laptop Black Friday deals worth shopping now Best 2-in-1 laptop Black Friday deals from HP, Dell, Lenovo, and more Acer Black Friday sale: Gaming laptops, monitors and more Deals Gaming Dell Laptops Computing It's a great time to get a gaming laptop. Not only have many of the best PC games of the past decade came out in recent years but also it happens to be the start of early access Black Friday deals over at Walmart. As part of these deals, we're seeing the MSI GF63 on sale for only $479. That's $220 less than the usual $699, meaning this is an excellent time to save big dollars and great way to start saving with early Black Friday deals.
Why you should buy the MSI GF63 Gaming Laptop One of the first points of intrigue about the MSI GF63 is that it has an RTX 3050. It's a graphics card that our RTX 3050 review labelled as having great value for the dollar. Other stats that quickly mark the MSI GF63 as a great laptop are its 15.6-inch screen's 144Hz refresh rate and 16GB of RAM. We've seen better than 512GB of SSD storage, but hardly at this price point. Luckily, with WiFi 6, you'll be able to save up space and then, later, redownload your favorite games quickly. The MSI GF63 runs on an Intel i5 processor, uses Windows 11, and has a battery life of 7 hours.
Computing With Black Friday often come some of the best laptop deals of the year, and that’s certainly the case at Lenovo right now. The workstation-class ThinkPad P16 laptop is marked down a massive $5,470 today, bringing its price down from nearly $10,000 to a much more reasonable Black Friday price of $4,469. This laptop is absolutely loaded with specs, surpassing most of the best laptops and even many of the best desktop computers. Free shipping is included with this deal, which isn’t likely to last long, so click over to Lenovo now to save while you can.
Why you should buy the Lenovo ThinkPad P16 mobile workstation Lenovo has been making quality computers for decades and currently finds itself considered among the best laptop brands. Its ThinkPad lineup is one of its most versatile, offering laptops at a range of price points for different needs. The ThinkPad P16 mobile workstation is going to sit on the upper end of those needs, as it’s packed with specs. It has an Intel i9 processor and a whopping 128GB of RAM, as well as 4TB of internal solid state storage capacity. These are the kind of specs you should be looking for if you’re trying to fit into the workflows of architectures, visual effects, and other professional-level environments that aim to push everyday laptops beyond their limits.
Computing Don't waste the processing power of your gaming PC on an aging display when you can get the Razer Raptor 27 gaming monitor for just $320 from Walmart. That's a massive $480 discount on its original price of $800. With the popularity of Razer's products, this offer may expire at any moment as stocks may get sold out quickly, so if you're already looking forward to playing the best PC games on this gaming monitor, you've got no choice but to complete the purchase immediately if you want to pocket the savings.
Why you should buy the Razer Raptor 27 gaming monitor The Razer Raptor 27 gaming monitor offers WQHD resolution on its 27-inch display, which will let you better appreciate the graphics of modern video games. The monitor also comes with a 165Hz refresh rate, which our computer monitor buying guide explains as how often the images on the screen are updated. It's faster than our recommended range of 120Hz to 144Hz, so you'll enjoy smoother movements, and with AMD's FreeSync Premium and Nvidia's G-Sync, your gameplay won't be interrupted by screen tearing and stuttering.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
