Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing News AMD finally announced the GPU I’ve waited months for By Jacob Roach Close AMD AMD hasn’t done much with its laptop GPUs this generation, but that’s changing. The company revealed the new Radeon RX 7900M, which is a mobile GPU that’s squarely targeting the performance of Nvidia’s RTX 4080.
Although AMD announced laptop GPUs at the beginning of the year, we haven’t seen them in very many laptops.
 It appears that’s changing. The RX 7900M is arriving first in the Alienware m18 laptop alongside AMD’s Ryzen 9 7945HX processor. AMD hasn’t said if we’ll see more laptops with the GPU yet, but it looks like we should only expect it high-end, desktop replacement-class machines.
For performance, AMD says that the RX 7900M is built for 1440p gaming, and that it’s 7% faster than the RTX 4080 on average. In real numbers, AMD says it achieved 104 frames per second (fps) on average across 30 games.
AMD Critically, that average includes ray tracing benchmarks. AMD usually shies away from ray tracing , mainly due to the fact that Nvidia dominates there. However, AMD is claiming a lead of anywhere from 2% to 6% in a handful of games including Fry Cry 6, Resident Evil 4 , Dead Space, and Forspoken.
AMD suffers in some ray tracing games as well, with titles like Forza Horizon 5 showing a 15% loss compared to Nvidia’s mobile RTX 4080.
Whatever you do, don’t buy an Nvidia GPU right now Don’t believe the hype — the era of native resolution gaming isn’t over I made an entire PC build for the price of one Nvidia GPU There’s something a little fishy with these benchmarks, though. AMD’s slides note that the RTX 4080 machine was an unnamed Aorus laptop with half the RAM and an Intel Core i7-13700H. That’s not exactly a fair battle based on specs alone. It seems AMD tested against the Aorus 17H, which is smaller than the Alienware m18 and doesn’t feature the extra 25-watt boost to Total Graphics Power (TGP) that the RTX 4080 is capable of. Based on all that, the 7% margin could be much thinner in a true one-to-one battle.
AMD That seems like the case given the amount of power the RX 7900M can draw. As usual, laptop brands are free to adjust the TGP to meet their form factor and design goals, but AMD says the card can reach up to 180W of power. Presumably, the Alienware m18 is drawing the full power the card is capable of.
For other specs, the RX 7900M has access to 16GB of GDDR6 memory, 72 RDNA 3 compute units and ray tracing accelerators, 144 AI accelerators, and a boost clock speed of up to 2,090MHz. Those specs put it ahead of the desktop RX 7800 XT in the amount of raw power on tap, but with a smaller power envelope, the mobile RX 7900M likely won’t top the desktop card.
Alienware As for the Alienware m18, it’s an AMD Advantage laptop, meaning it sports both an AMD CPU and GPU, and it has access to AMD Smart technologies like Smart Access Memory and SmartShift Max. In addition to the AMD components, the laptop comes with up to 64GB of DDR5-4800 memory and up to 8.5TB of NVMe storage. You can configure it with either a 2,560 x 1,600 165Hz display or a 1,920 x 1,200 480Hz display, similar to the Alienware x17 R2.
 The laptop is available now, starting at $2,800.
Editors' Recommendations I fell in love with this adorable mini gaming PC 5 things you should never do with your gaming laptop AMD’s FSR 3 will finally get a chance to shine in Starfield 23% of PC gamers probably can’t play Alan Wake 2. Here’s why GPU prices and availability (Q4 2023): How much are GPUs today? Dell Laptops PC Gaming Tech News Computing I've had a few gaming laptops in my life, but I really can't see myself ever buying another one -- even though there are definitely times when I could use one. That's not to throw shade to some of the best gaming laptops, because I know those are great for those who can appreciate them. I simply can't bring myself to trust another one again.
I'm not against buying a laptop for gaming, but here are some of the reasons I've continued to resist picking one for myself.
Once burned, twice shy Computing Following some angry posts on Reddit, Valve has confirmed that using AMD's new Anti-Lag+ feature in Counter-Strike 2 can result in a ban. The official X/Twitter account for the game confirmed that AMD customers using Anti-Lag+ will be banned, as it tampers with the files of the game.
https://twitter.com/CounterStrike/status/1712875606776729832 Computing Monitors are getting cheaper, and that's particularly true for 4K gaming monitors. Over the past couple of years, multiple brands have launched their own stripped-back 4K gaming displays, with each driving prices down, and proper 4K gaming displays are cheaper now than they've ever been.
The price drops aren't insignificant, either. The go-to 4K gaming display over the past several years has been the LG 27GN950-B, which launched for $800. Now, you'd be overpaying if you pick one up for more than $650. Samsung's market-defining Odyssey Neo G8 launched just last year for $1,500. Now? You can buy it for $1,000 on sale.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
