Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? This huge Dell sale ends soon — save on laptops, monitors, PCs By Albert Bassili Close Digital Trends Dell is one of those companies that has an expansive list of laptops that you can pick from so that you can really hone in on exactly the sort of specs you’re looking for. Luckily, it’s putting on a big weekend sale right now, and you can pick up some great laptops; whether you’re looking for a 2-in-1 or a gaming rig, there’s something in here for everybody. While there is a ton to pick from, we’ve done our best to collect a nice selection of laptops for you to check out first.
Before you jump in, though, it might be worth looking at our laptop buying guide and our advice on how to choose a PC to give you a better idea of what you should be looking for in the haystack. You can also look at what we think are the best Dell laptops , as well as our collection of best laptops overall, which you can use to compare to the laptop you’d like to grab. Of course, be sure to check out the full deal using the link below if you don’t find any of our choices exactly what you’re looking for.
What you should buy in Dell’s laptop sale If you’re looking at something budget-friendly that still has some power under the hood, this Inspiron 15 configuration is instead of $380 and has the excellent budget i3 processor. Add to that the 15.6-inch FHD screen, 8GBs of RAM and an impressive 512GB of storage, and you have an excellent all-around machine that will handle most productivity and day-to-day tasks you throw at it. If you want something with a slightly bigger screen, this Inspiron 16 configuration has essentially the exact same specs but with a larger 16-inch screen and is instead of $1,000.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
On the other hand, if you want a 2-in-1 laptop , then this Inspiron 14 2-in-1 has similar specs to the laptops above, with a Ryzen 5 7530U, 8GB of RAM, and 512GB of storage. It also has a 14-inch FHD screen that makes it very light and portable, and you can pick it up.
 That said, if you’d like something that has some gaming capabilities, then this Inspiron 14 Plus is the way to go since it comes with an RTX 3050 , an i7-12700H, 16Gb of RAM, and 1TB of storage, and is probably one of the best middle-ground deals if you want a bit of everything.
Of course, if you want real power, then you’ll have to pay a steeper price with this Inspiron 16 Plus instead of $1,650, but also having an RTX 4060 , a higher end i7-13700H, 16GB of DDR5 RAM, 1TB of space, and a gorgeous 16-inch screen running a 2560×1600 resolution. Finally, we have Dell’s answer to the MacBook Air , which is the thing and light XPS 13 going , and while it doesn’t come with its own discrete GPU, it does have a i5-1230U, 8GB of RAM, 512GB of storage, a lovely 13-inch display running a 2880×1920 resolution, and is extremely portable to the point it’s almost a tablet.
Editors' Recommendations 75 best Amazon Black Friday deals on laptops, TVs, Apple, and more Best Chromebook Black Friday deals on HP, Lenovo, and more Best Lenovo laptop Black Friday deals: Chromebooks, gaming laptops, and more The best Lenovo gaming laptop Black Friday deals right now Black Friday laptop deal drops this Lenovo Chromebook to $149 Deals Dell Computing There are a lot of great Black Friday deals on laptops popping up as we get closer to the Black Friday and Cyber Monday weekend, but we've found a few great deals at Best Buy that are going to expire very soon. Luckily, the deals we've found are spread across budgets and brands, and we've even found a couple of gaming laptops for you to pick from. We've also included some Chromebooks for those who might not want to go with a Windows laptop. Best Buy Black Friday TV deals are blowing up equally as much, so check those out if you're trying to use up a gift card.
Our Favorite Best Buy Black Friday Laptop Deal Lenovo Slim 3 Chromebook -- $149, was $319 Computing Black Friday deals present the perfect time to save some money on a new laptop. There are a lot of Black Friday laptop deals that cut prices by the triple digits. Check out Amazon Black Friday laptop deals when you get a chance too -- there are also some great discounts there. One of our favorite laptop lines is the Dell XPS. This is Dell's most popular line of laptops. In some ways, they are Dell's answer to the MacBook -- they are sleek, thin, and prioritize gorgeous screens. We've collected the best Dell XPS laptop deals below, splitting them up by size. For other Dell laptops, like the G15 or the Inspiron line, check out our more generic Dell Black Friday deals list.
For the most part, the only difference is the screen size, but with a bigger screen comes a bigger chassis. That means there's more room to pack in powerful components and extra goodies like backlit keyboards. Check out our picks of the best Dell XPS deals below.
Best Dell XPS 13 Black Friday deals Computing Even if your router is only four or five years old, it might be time for an upgrade, given the recent advances in router tech, such as Wi-Fi 6, which has become much more prominent. The same also applies to mesh routers, which have more advanced technology that can handle multiple connected devices, such as smart lights, home security systems, phones, and so forth. Of course, you don't have to pay a lot of money to grab yourself a new router, and there are even some great Black Friday deals you can take advantage of that will save you a little bit of extra cash. We've collected some of our favorite deals on routers below, but be sure to check back regularly as we update with newer and better deals.
Best Router Black Friday Deals Routers are a great option if you don't have a large home or need to cover a lot of square footage, and putting them near you means that you get much better speeds and lower latency when connecting through Wi-Fi. Of course, that may not always be an option, so it's important to know what sort of capacity and speeds routers can do. Most routers will have an "AX" followed by a set of numbers that dictates the maximum speed it can reach, and the rule of thumb is generally that this maximum speed only applies when you're really close to the router, so the further out you go, the less speed you'll get. It's not perfect, but generally more powerful routers that can hit higher speeds will be able to connect at higher speeds further away, although its always best to check the actual real-world performance of a router before taking the plunge.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
