Featured Topics Newsletters Events Podcasts Featured Topics Newsletters Events Podcasts Barnhart succeeds Schmidt as provost As Martin Schmidt departs for RPI, Cynthia Barnhart assumes the Institute’s senior academic post.
By Kathy Wren archive page Steve Bradt archive page Former MIT chancellor Cynthia Barnhart, SM ’86, PhD ’88, a Ford Foundation Professor of Engineering and professor of operations research at Sloan, became the Institute’s provost on March 7.
Barnhart, who joined the faculty in 1992, has served as associate and acting dean of the School of Engineering and as co-director of the Operations Research Center and the Center for Transportation and Logistics. As chancellor, from 2014 to 2021, she led a team that expanded student health and wellness programs, launched a campaign to prevent and respond to sexual misconduct on campus, and focused on new efforts to enhance undergraduate and graduate education. She created the Institute Discrimination and Harassment Response Office , established the MindHandHeart initiative, and led the Covid Decision Team, which oversaw pandemic response efforts in 2020 and 2021.
As provost, MIT’s senior academic and budget officer, Barnhart will lead efforts to establish academic priorities, manage financial planning and research support, and oversee MIT’s international engagements. She’s especially excited to address open learning and MIT’s role in improving access and affordability in education.
Barnhart succeeds Martin Schmidt, SM ’83, PhD ’88, who will leave the MIT community after 40 years to become president of his undergrad alma mater, Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, on July 1. Schmidt, a professor of electrical engineering and computer science, had been provost for eight years, leading many of MIT’s efforts to foster an inclusive community and playing key roles in creating the MIT Stephen A. Schwarzman College of Computing and in the evolution of the online learning platform edX. At RPI he succeeds another MIT grad: Shirley Ann Jackson ’68, PhD ’73, who had been president since 1999. “Marty was an exceptional colleague and thoughtful leader. I’m delighted to be able to bring continuity to the post after working with him closely as chancellor,” Barnhart says.
President L. Rafael Reif praised Barnhart as “one of the most energetic, determined, and effective managers I have ever known.” He added, “In her seven years as chancellor, Cindy’s values, skills, vision, and collaborative spirit made her a superb member of MIT’s senior leadership team—and I look forward once again to drawing on her analytical powers, humane wisdom, and calm self-confidence in taking on tough issues.” hide by Kathy Wren & Steve Bradt Share linkedinlink opens in a new window twitterlink opens in a new window facebooklink opens in a new window emaillink opens in a new window This story was part of our May/June 2022 issue.
Popular This new data poisoning tool lets artists fight back against generative AI Melissa Heikkilä Everything you need to know about artificial wombs Cassandra Willyard Deepfakes of Chinese influencers are livestreaming 24/7 Zeyi Yang How to fix the internet Katie Notopoulos Keep Reading Most Popular This new data poisoning tool lets artists fight back against generative AI The tool, called Nightshade, messes up training data in ways that could cause serious damage to image-generating AI models.
By Melissa Heikkilä archive page Everything you need to know about artificial wombs Artificial wombs are nearing human trials. But the goal is to save the littlest preemies, not replace the uterus.
By Cassandra Willyard archive page Deepfakes of Chinese influencers are livestreaming 24/7 With just a few minutes of sample video and $1,000, brands never have to stop selling their products.
By Zeyi Yang archive page How to fix the internet If we want online discourse to improve, we need to move beyond the big platforms.
By Katie Notopoulos archive page Stay connected Illustration by Rose Wong Get the latest updates from MIT Technology Review Discover special offers, top stories, upcoming events, and more.
Enter your email Thank you for submitting your email! It looks like something went wrong.
We’re having trouble saving your preferences. Try refreshing this page and updating them one more time. If you continue to get this message, reach out to us at customer-service@technologyreview.com with a list of newsletters you’d like to receive.
The latest iteration of a legacy Advertise with MIT Technology Review © 2023 MIT Technology Review About About us Careers Custom content Advertise with us International Editions Republishing MIT News Help Help & FAQ My subscription Editorial guidelines Privacy policy Terms of Service Write for us Contact us twitterlink opens in a new window facebooklink opens in a new window instagramlink opens in a new window rsslink opens in a new window linkedinlink opens in a new window
