Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Hurry! The Dell G16 just got a $450 discount — down to $800 By John Alexander Close Dell Gaming laptops are one of those categories that always feel like a “want” instead of a “need.” As a result, we tend to look at each and every one of the gaming laptop deals we come across with scrutiny. They’re a great way to let us give in to a guilty pleasure while deemphasizing the guilt. For example, take this deal we found on a Dell G16 Gaming Laptop, this version including 16GB of RAM and an RTX 3050 Ti. Normally, this laptop would cost $1,250, but while it is on clearance, you can find it for $800. That is a savings of $450, a substantial amount. If you’ve been putting off buying a gaming laptop due to price, now is the time to give in. Tap the button below to check out this laptop while it is still on clearance.
Why you should buy a Dell G16 Gaming Laptop The Dell G16 Gaming Laptop comes ready to play your favorite games and give a great picture. At 16 inches, 2560 x 1600p resolution, and 165Hz refresh speed, this gaming laptop will keep you happy whether you’re playing beautiful open-world games or trying out a twitch shooter. It is powered by an RTX 3050 Ti, has an Alienware-inspired design, and one-tap adjustable fan speeds. Get even more enmeshed into your game with your favorite wired headphones by utilizing the included jack.
Another thing to know is that this laptop is super customizable. It’s just one of the reasons Dell is one of the best laptop brands.
 The base laptop’s hardware and stats (12th Gen i7 processor, RTX 3050 Ti, 16GB RAM , 512GB storage) are all upgradeable and we found comparable clearance deals for all combinations we tested. As you poke around in the buy menu, accessible by tapping the button below, you might notice that some upgrades happen automatically due to availability and compatibility. For example, going for the RTX 3070 automatically upgrades the processor as well. It’s overall a good thing, but you should be aware of it as you play around.
All of that being said, most will be happy with the base model as presented. To really hit home how great of a deal this is on the Dell G16 Gaming Laptop, take a look at our listing of the best gaming laptops for college.
 The great budget pick there is the G15, with lesser gear and the same price as the Dell G16 Gaming Laptop while on clearance. To get this laptop for $800, a savings of $450 off of the original $1,250, just tap the button below.
Editors' Recommendations Best Dell Black Friday deals: Save on laptops, monitors, desktop PCs The best gaming keyboard you can buy just had its price slashed Best gaming laptop deals: Game on the go from just $550 Early Black Friday deal slashes $700 off the Dell XPS 17 laptop Best Dell laptop deals: Get the Dell XPS 13 for less than $600 Deals Dell Laptops Computing Building your own PC from scratch can be a lot of fun, but if you aren't tech-savvy or don't have the time to do it, then going for a pre-built PC is a great option. While you will lose a little bit of money in the process for assembly and parts, there are a lot of great gaming PC deals you can take advantage of to mitigate that issue. You also get the PC essentially ready to plug and play so that you can jump right into the best PC games out there and have some fun and entertainment.
So, if you're ready for an upgrade, this Legion Tower 7i is a great option, given that it comes with the impressive RTX 4080 graphics card. That will let you play many games, including AAAs, without too much issue, even on higher-end monitors. Even better, Lenovo is heavily discounting it to $2,350 instead of the usual $2,990 it goes for. That's a steep $640 that's being knocked off the price, and Lenovo even throws in three months of Xbox Game Pass, so this is an excellent deal all-around.
Computing Lenovo often provides many of the best gaming laptop deals and that's certainly the case today. If you're looking for some fantastic power on the move, consider the Lenovo Legion Pro 7i that's currently available for $3,000. Usually priced at $3,600, you're saving $600 off the regular price and scoring yourself a fantastically powerful gaming laptop. Topping the many laptop deals going on right now, read on while we explain more about what it offers and why you might want it.
Why you should buy the Lenovo Legion Pro 7i The Lenovo Legion Pro 7i is seriously powerful. It has a 13th-generation Intel Core i9 processor along with a huge 32GB of memory and 2TB of SSD storage. The icing on the cake is its Nvidia GeForce RTX 4090 graphics card with 16GB of dedicated VRAM. All of this basically means you've got one of the best gaming laptops you can buy, promising plenty of power and no issue with playing the latest games at high detail levels.
Computing For gamers, one of the best Black Friday deals is being able to buy a HP Victus 15.6-inch gaming laptop for $550 reduced $350 from $900. That's quite the price cut and while the HP Victus 15.6-inch gaming laptop might not have the latest tech, it's still more than good enough to play most of the latest games. If you're keen to learn more about one of the best gaming laptop deals today, keep reading.
Why you should buy the HP Victus 15.6-inch gaming laptop While it might not be one of the best gaming laptops, the HP Victus 15.6-inch gaming laptop is a steal at this price. It has an Intel Core i5 processor along with 8GB of memory and 512GB of SSD storage. While we'd have liked to have seen more memory, we're delighted to see so much storage as games are taking up more space than ever and 256GB simply won't cut it with gaming needs.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
