Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? This is the cheapest RTX 3070 gaming laptop worth buying today By Aaron Mamiit Close Dell The Nvidia GeForce RTX 3070 is dependable but relatively affordable, and the Dell G16 is the cheapest option right now if you want a gaming laptop that’s powered by this graphics card. It’s currently available from Dell with a $500 discount that pulls its price down to $1,300 from $1,800, but since this is a clearance sale, we expect stocks to be extremely limited. This is among the most attractive gaming laptop deals we’ve recently seen, so you’re going to have to make your purchase quickly if you don’t want to miss out.
Why you should buy the Dell G16 gaming laptop The Dell G16 is a budget gaming laptop , so you shouldn’t expect it to match the performance of the top-of-the-line best gaming laptops.
 However, it’s more than enough to properly run the best PC games with its Nvidia GeForce RTX 3070 graphics card , which is paired with the 12th-generation Intel Core i9 processor and 16GB of RAM , which is the best place to start for gaming. For more info, see our guide on how much RAM do you need.
 You may not be able to choose the highest graphics settings for the more demanding titles, but that’s an acceptable trade-off for a relatively affordable gaming laptop.
The 16-inch screen of the Dell G16 gaming laptop offers QHD+ resolution and a 165Hz refresh rate, which will allow you to enjoy sharp details and smooth gameplay. The device also comes with Windows 11 Home pre-loaded in its 1TB SSD, which is large enough to provide space for the installation of several AAA titles, their important updates, and your save data.
The Dell G16 gaming laptop with the Nvidia GeForce RTX 3070 graphics card is on sale from Dell at $500 off, which brings its price down from $1,800 to a more affordable $1,300. While it’s more expensive than some laptop deals , it’s still considered a budget machine for gamers, so we think this offer will attract a lot of attention. If you want to buy the Dell G16 gaming laptop for a much cheaper price than usual, you’ll need to complete the transaction immediately. If you delay, you may lose this chance at huge savings.
Editors' Recommendations Best Black Friday gaming laptop deals: Cheapest prices today The best Lenovo gaming laptop Black Friday deals right now 11 Best Buy Black Friday laptop deals you can’t afford to miss today Razer Black Friday deals: Save on gaming laptops, keyboards and more Best Razer gaming laptop Black Friday deals worth shopping now Deals Gaming Dell Laptops Computing If you've wanted to upgrade your gaming PC but missed out on the previous sales during Prime Day, then you're absolutely in luck. With Black Friday deals taking place all over November now, we're starting to see many excellent deals on gaming PCs, whether you're going for an AMD-based setup or an Intel-based one. To that end, we've collected some of our favorite deals and sectioned them off into AMD and Intel so you can pick the brand you prefer.
These include some crossover sales with Dell Black Friday deals and Alienware Black Friday deals, since the latter is sold by the former. We've also trawled through Best Buy Black Friday deals for the best gaming deals. If you want something more mobile, check out the best Black Friday gaming laptop deals.
Best Gaming PC Black Friday Deals (AMD) Computing There's no need to wait for Black Friday deals because retailers like Dell have already rolled out some of their offers for the shopping holiday. Whether you're planning to buy a new laptop, monitor, or desktop computer, Dell surely has something that will fit your budget. We've rounded up the best Dell Black Friday deals that you can shop right now to help you decide quickly on your purchases, since you need to hurry to make sure that you're able to take advantage of the bargains. Like HP laptop Black Friday deals and Amazon Black Friday laptop deals, these discounts could end at any time. Any of these prices may return to normal at any moment, so act fast.
Top 3 Dell Black Friday deals Dell S2721QS 4K monitor -- $240, was $330 If you're looking for monitor deals to upgrade an outdated display, you should consider the Dell S2721QS 4K monitor. You'll be getting sharp details and vivid colors on its 27-inch screen with 4K Ultra HD resolution, and you'll also experience less stuttering and screen tearing with AMD's FreeSync technology. Your neck and eyes will stay comfortable with the help of the monitor's height-adjustable stand and Dell's ComfortView Plus that reduces harmful blue light emissions.
Computing Samsung makes some of the best monitors you can buy today. Whether you're looking for the best 4K monitors for graphic design or a regular HD monitor to hook up alongside your laptop, Samsung is the name to trust. It can also be one of the pricier brands around which is why it's great to see so many Black Friday deals which involve some deep discounts on Samsung monitors. We've got all the best Samsung Black Friday deals on monitors lined ups below. Check them out now to see what works well for you and your budget.
Best Samsung monitor Black Friday deals Samsung 34-inch ViewFinity S50GC Ultra-WQHD monitor -- $300, was $380 As a great all-rounder, the Samsung 34-inch ViewFinity S50GC Ultra-WQHD monitor is a good option for working from home before indulging in some light gaming. It has a 21:9 ratio along with its Ultra-WQHD resolution of 3440 x 1440. Alongside that, there's HDR10 support that displays over 1 billion colors so you can enjoy brighter colors as needed along with darker scenery too. It's all more lifelike while offering key features like an ambient light sensor to help it automatically adjust brightness as needed. A 100Hz refresh rate is higher than average so you can benefit from less motion blur when watching videos or simply scrolling quickly. AMD FreeSync further helps while there are useful extras like Picture by Picture and Picture in Picture. Combined, it makes it great for work and then relaxing watching a movie after you've finished up.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
