Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Dell’s best business laptop is 50% off for a limited time By Noah McGraw Close Dell Sometimes a standard laptop just doesn’t cut the mustard. If you use your laptop every day for demanding tasks, you need something built with efficiency and power in mind. There is a whole category of laptop for this: business laptops. These beasts usually have a lot of RAM and a quality processor, as well as a nice screen and a large keyboard. They sometimes skimp on the graphics card to keep costs low.
Dell has several laptop models specifically made for business use. Dell’s two best business laptops are the Latitude and the Vostro The most popular one, the Latitude, is currently on sale with a massive 50% discount. You can grab it for $699 after a $698 price cut.
Dell laptop deals don’t last long, so grab this one before it completely sells out.
Why you should buy the Dell Latitude 3420 What separates a business laptop from a casual laptop or a gaming laptop ? Business laptops focus on power, speed, and the ability to run multiple programs at once. This usually elevates them above casual laptops in almost every way. They’re sometimes similar to gaming laptops , but they often don’t focus so heavily on the graphics card.
This configuration of the Dell Latitude follows that formula. It has an 11th-Gen Intel Core i7 processor, which is a solid, if somewhat older, processor. It has 16GB of RAM , which is plenty for running multiple programs at once. You’ll have no issues running Zoom, Google Chrome, Microsoft Excel and Microsoft Teams at the same time. Where the performance falls short of a gaming laptop is in the graphics card. It has the Nvidia GeForce MX350. It’s a quality component, but if you work with image editing or video rendering, you might want to upgrade to an Nvidia GTX graphics card.
The screen is a 14-inch FHD monitor, meaning it gets 1080p. That works for most business situations, and you can always plug in some external monitors to your screen real estate. It only comes with 256GB of storage, so you will probably want to avail some external hard drive deals to expand your storage.
The Dell Latitude 3420 business laptop is 50% off right now, bringing the price from $1,396 down to $699.
Dell laptop deals notoriously sell out quick, so grab it soon if you’re looking to upgrade your work computer.
Editors' Recommendations 75 best Amazon Black Friday deals on laptops, TVs, Apple, and more The best HP laptop Black Friday deals happening right now Best Black Friday laptop deals: Get a new workhorse from $129 Black Friday laptop deal drops this Lenovo Chromebook to $149 11 Best Buy Black Friday laptop deals you can’t afford to miss today Deals Amazon Amazon Prime Day Dell Laptops Computing Black Friday deals present the perfect time to save some money on a new laptop. There are a lot of Black Friday laptop deals that cut prices by the triple digits. Check out Amazon Black Friday laptop deals when you get a chance too -- there are also some great discounts there. One of our favorite laptop lines is the Dell XPS. This is Dell's most popular line of laptops. In some ways, they are Dell's answer to the MacBook -- they are sleek, thin, and prioritize gorgeous screens. We've collected the best Dell XPS laptop deals below, splitting them up by size. For other Dell laptops, like the G15 or the Inspiron line, check out our more generic Dell Black Friday deals list.
For the most part, the only difference is the screen size, but with a bigger screen comes a bigger chassis. That means there's more room to pack in powerful components and extra goodies like backlit keyboards. Check out our picks of the best Dell XPS deals below.
Best Dell XPS 13 Black Friday deals Computing Black Friday deals are a great place to check for a new laptop. Amazon has its fair share of them, on every kind of machine from gaming laptops to Chromebooks. We've picked out our favorites below and categorized them. All of these deals are available right now, even though Black Friday is still a ways away. Make sure to check back for new Black Friday laptop deals before the shopping holiday starts, including Black Friday gaming laptop deals if you want to play on the go.
Best Amazon Black Friday laptop deals If you're looking for a general-purpose laptop, this is the category for you. Amazon has discounted computers from some of our favorite brands, like HP and Acer. These laptops will vary in power and size. If you're looking for something with expensive components, check the gaming laptops below. If power isn't so important, but the price is, check out Chromebook deals under this or Black Friday HP laptop deals.
Computing Alienware is known for its high-end gaming laptops, which are not only powerful but are also quite pricey. Luckily, there are some great Black Friday deals on its laptops with both AMD and Intel CPUs, so you have a bit of a choice on what sort of setup you want to go with. While you're here, it is worth taking a look at the wider Alienware Black Friday deals and Dell Black Friday deals for even more options. We love Alienware, but consider browsing the similar Razer gaming laptop Black Friday deals.
Alienware Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals (AMD) AMD processors tend to be a little bit more power efficient and cheaper than Intel CPUs, and while that won't make a big difference with a gaming laptop, it's a nice little addition to have. Luckily, unlike other brands, Alienware doesn't shy away from combining AMD CPUs with high-end hardware like an RTX 4090, so if you'd like to go with and AMD CPU, you'll have a lot of choices to pick from.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
