Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing News Dell’s new UltraSharp monitors have one major innovation By Kunal Khullar Close Dell Dell makes some of the best monitors and it is introducing a fresh lineup designed for office or remote work setups with a major innovation. Expanding its UltraSharp series, the company is launching four new models, all of which come with a faster refresh rate of 120Hz. Typically reserved for gaming monitors or high-end screens, the faster refresh rate is a great sign for monitors, especially on one as cheap as $380.
Furthermore, Dell is debuting the world’s initial 23.8-inch, 27-inch, and 34-inch video conferencing monitors that are certified for both Microsoft Teams and Zoom.
The new Dell UltraSharp 24 and UltraSharp 24 USB-C hub monitors will come in full-HD (1920 x 1080) resolution, alongside the aforementioned 120Hz refresh rate. Both are rated to offer 85% DCI-P3 and 85% sRGB color gamut coverage along with built-in ambient light sensors for auto brightness and color temperature adjustments.
Dell UltraSharp 30 is a more modular Apple Studio Display Dell’s new UltraSharp display comes with a huge top bezel for 4K video calls Google’s new Series One monitors include a 65-inch Surface Hub competitor The primary difference between the two is that the USB-C hub variant will offer an additional USB Type-C upstream port which apart from data and video also offers power delivery up to 90W, an extra USB 3.2 Gen2 Type-A port, and a built-in RJ45 Ethernet.
Dell Ultrasharp 27 Thunderbolt Hub Monitor (U2724DE) Dell Similarly, there are two 27-inch models – the Dell UltraSharp 27 Thunderbolt and the UltraSharp 27. These offer a higher resolution of 2560 x 1440 with 120Hz refresh and improved color gamut coverage (100% sRGB, 95% DCI-P3). As the name suggests, the UltraSharp 27 Thunderbolt will include Thunderbolt downstream and upstream ports, as well as a 2.5-gigabit Ethernet port. Both monitors also support HDMI 2.1 with a 120Hz variable refresh rate.
Both are also said to be the world’s first five-star certified monitors, which is a brand-new industry standard for eye comfort developed by TUV Rheinland. With ‘ComfortView Plus’ the new 27-inch monitors have been upgraded to reduce harmful blue light exposures to less than 35%. There will also be a built-in ambient light sensor allowing the display to automatically adjust screen brightness and color tone setting based on the ambient lighting condition. As the name suggests, the UltraSharp 27 Thunderbolt will include Thunderbolt downstream and upstream ports, as well as a 2.5-gigabit Ethernet port. Both monitors also support HDMI 2.1 with a 120Hz variable refresh rate.
Dell 34 Curved Video Conferencing Monitor (P3424WEB) Dell As for the new video conferencing monitor range, the 24-inch and 27-inch offer almost the same features as the standard UltraSharp models, but with standard 60Hz refresh rate panels. There is also a new 34-inch curved ultrawide monitor that offers a 21:9 aspect ratio and a WQHD (3440 x 1440) resolution 60Hz display. Dell says that these monitors come with upgraded conveniences including a better-integrated camera, speakers, and microphones. The highlight is the new 4-megapixel 2K QHD camera that can shoot 1080p videos at 60fps. The camera also comes with additional features like AI auto framing, digital overlap HDR , and video noise reduction. It also offers support for Windows Hello face recognition and for added security, there is a mechanical privacy shutter to manually block the webcam from use.
If you are interested in Dell’s upcoming monitors, you can purchase the UltraSharp series starting November 9. Prices start at $380 for the 24-inch model and $480 for the 27-inch model. The 34-inch curved ultrawide video conferencing monitor is readily available starting at $950. As for the 24-inch variant, it will be available starting November 30 for $510 while the 27-inch model will be coming next month on December 7 starting at $700.
For those who are looking for a display with a much higher resolution, then you should definitely check out Dell’s UltraSharp 32 6K Monitor (U3224KB) which offers an eye-watering resolution of 6144 x 3456.
Editors' Recommendations Dell’s new 6K UltraSharp refuses to sacrifice pixel density for size Dell’s new Fast IPS gaming monitors have 1ms response time LG’s new UltraFine OLED Pro monitors include hardware-based calibration Dell claims its UltraSharp 4K webcam is the world’s best for image quality Dell’s new gaming monitors offer something for everyone Dell Tech News Computing Dell has taken the wraps off of its refreshed UltraSharp monitors, including what it is calling the world's first 40-inch, ultrawide, curved WUHD monitor, ahead of the all-virtual Consumer Electronics Show. We are already seeing a wide computing products at CES 2021, and Dell is coming out strong already with some of the best monitors and laptops at CES.
The new lineup of computer monitors covers a wide range of sizes and prices and aims to "elevate work experiences and boost employee productivity." Dell UltraSharp 40 Curved monitor Computing Designed for creative professionals and boasting rich color accuracy, Dell's new 31.5-inch UltraSharp 32 HDR PremierColor (UP3221Q) display boasts over 2,000 mini-LED backlit dimming zones on its IPS panel to bring deep blacks and bright whites. And priced at $5,000 when it goes on sale on November 5, the UltraSharp 32 HDR goes after the same creative audience that rival Apple is targeting with its ProDisplay XDR. Although both panels share a similar diagonal measurement, Apple's monitor ships with a higher 6K resolution whereas the UltraSharp comes in at 4K.
The Dell's 4K, 60Hz panel covers 99.8% of the wide DCI-P3 color space, can reach 1,000 nits of brightness, and supports the VESA DisplayHDR 1000 specification with excellent HDR quality. With Thunderbolt 3 connectivity, you can easily daisy chain two of these panels together for an even larger, more immersive digital canvas. Those who need additional color accuracy can rely on the built-in Calman Powered colorimeter for on-demand calibration.
Computing If you're a gamer who refuses to compromise on resolution or speed, LG's new 27-inch UltraGear Gaming Monitor checks off a lot of boxes. A 4K UHD resolution and a refresh rate of 144Hz already qualify the UltraGear as an impressive gaming companion, but LG also added a super-speedy 1ms gray-to-gray response time, making it the first of its kind in the world. To achieve this feat, LG claims that the UltraGear 27GN950 utilizes VESA Display Stream Compression technology.
"The VESA Display Stream Compression (DSC) technology in the 27GN950 can deliver virtually lossless 4K UHD images in 10-bit color with a 144Hz refresh rate via just a single DisplayPort cable," the company said in a statement, noting that the panel delivers immersive pictual quality without sacrificing on features like input lag and refresh rates.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
