Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Split Screen in Windows 11 Windows 11 Requirements Get Windows 11 for Free Screenshot on Windows 11 Uninstall Windows 11 Android Apps on Windows 11 Home Computing Guides How to find your computer specs on Windows 11 By Arif Bacchus Close Knowing what hardware makes up your PC is a useful step in figuring out whether you need to upgrade your processor , your memory , or maybe your graphics card. But how do you find out your PC specs in Windows 11? Using About PC Using System Information Using HWInfo There are a few ways to do it and we'll cover them all here. Here's how to find out what your PC is made of.
Difficulty Duration What You Need Windows 11 PC or desktop Jon Martindale / DigitalTrends Using About PC For a real straightforward way to look at your basic PC specs, check out the About PC screen.
Step 1: Open the Windows Settings screen by pressing Windows key + I.
Step 2: Select System from the left-hand menu.
You can finally purge your PC of default Windows apps Windows 11 might finally reverse course on preinstalled applications Will my computer automatically update for daylight saving time? Step 3: Scroll down the list, and select About This PC from the bottom.
Step 4: Here you'll find all the important information on your CPU model, your memory quantity and speed, Windows version, and more.
It won't tell you much more, though. For that, you'll need to use one of the other methods below.
Jon Martindale / DigitalTrends Using System Information One of the easiest ways to see your computer specifications in Windows 11 is via the System Information App.
Step 1: Use the Windows search bar to look for MSInfo.
Step 2: That will bring up a list that should show a link to the System Information App. Select it.
You'll be able to see the build of Windows 11 you're running, the System model, the Processor, BIOS version, RAM , virtual memory, and more.
Step 3: In the screen that pops up you'll have information on your CPU, memory, motherboard, and more. You can find more detailed information on USB ports, your network, sound device, display(s) and more, by selecting the menus on the left-hand side.
Jon Martindale / DigitalTrends Using HWInfo If you want to look at live information on your system, like its power usage, clock speeds, or temperatures, you need a third-party application. I really like HWInfo.
Step 1: Download HWInfo from the official website and install it like you would any other application.
Step 2: Launch the app, and if you want to just see live information, select Sensors only.
Otherwise you can leave both boxes unticked and get the full system summary, and the live sensor window.
Step 3: To see live information, select Sensors from the top menu. The window that appears will have a lot of information about your PC's live stats, like its clock speeds for each core, your graphics card power draw, and more. It's extremely in-depth, so can be a little overwhelming, but rest assured if you wanted to know something about your PC, it's there.
The main HWInfo window will tell you in-depth information about every component in your PC. Just select it to learn more.
Now you know your PC's specs, do you want to learn more about tracking its temperatures? Here's our guide on managing your processor temperatures.
Editors' Recommendations Windows is just an application now Windows 11 will soon harness your GPU for generative AI How to find your BitLocker recovery key What does printer spooling mean, and how to fix it on Windows and Mac ‘Compact Mode’ can’t fix the Xbox app. Here’s what could How-To How-To Guides Microsoft Microsoft Windows Windows 11 Windows Guides Computing Researchers are continually releasing studies on the potential harm of blue light. When you stare at a screen all day and into the evening, it can affect your sleep and disrupt your body's natural rhythms. For these reasons, blue light filters are incredibly important.
Computing Microsoft has just announced the latest update to Windows 11, which brings the operating system up to version 23H2. This is a cumulative update that comes with some of the most exciting features already announced in September, including Copilot, and brings some changes to Teams, among other things. Here's what's new and how to get it on your own PC.
When Microsoft first announced Copilot during its September event, many thought that it'd be available right away -- and it was, but not widely. Now, with the 23H2 update, Copilot should be downloaded and toggled on by default, alongside everything else that was announced during the Surface event. Some new things are on the way, too.
Computing I've used most of the handheld gaming PCs that have released this year, but I always go back to my Steam Deck. It's not the most powerful, it has some quirks, and I still struggle with a frustrating bug that can drain the battery in minutes. But it's still the best handheld gaming PC you can buy, and that's due in large part to the fact that it doesn't run on Windows like other handhelds.
It's not that I don't like Windows. As a PC hardware nerd, I'm well aware of both the benefits and idiosyncrasies of PC gaming. Things don't always work the way you expect them to, and that's just part of the process to get the best gaming experience possible. When it comes to this evolving form factor of handheld gaming PCs, however, those issues are amplified and pushed to their breaking point.
We've been here before Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
