Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Guides How to use a blue light filter on your PC or Mac By Erika Rawes Close Researchers are continually releasing studies on the potential harm of blue light. When you stare at a screen all day and into the evening, it can affect your sleep and disrupt your body's natural rhythms. For these reasons, blue light filters are incredibly important.
What’s the problem with blue light? Windows 10 MacOS Chromebooks External displays Third-party alternatives Difficulty Duration What You Need Mac, Windows 10, or Chromebook Whether you are spending your day on a Windows PC, Mac, or Chromebook, you should enable their blue light filter to help ease the strain on your eyes. Desktop screens and laptops typically have a built-in filter you can access, and there are downloadable options in case your computer doesn’t have this feature available.
If you’re looking for a blue light filter for your smartphone , however, there are plenty of great apps you can download from the Google Play Store or iOS App Store.
Image used with permission by copyright holder What’s the problem with blue light? The reason blue light hurts is purely biological. Sleep is a part of the circadian rhythm, which is the cycle of biological processes that are determined in part by the levels of light and dark exposed to our bodies.
In the most natural setting, which is one where we’re only exposed to sunlight, our retinas sense when the sun descends and the environment grows darker. That induces our hypothalamus to start the process of producing melatonin and other sleep hormones and reducing our body temperature.
When we use artificial lighting to extend our day, however, our bodies get confused, and the various sleep signals are disrupted. Even worse is the blue light emitted by fluorescent and LED lights — like those on our various device displays — which cause us to be more alert and produce even less melatonin.
That’s why using a blue light filter is so important.
Windows 10 Microsoft added a blue light-limiting feature to Windows 10 in the Creators Update released in April 2017.
 Called Night Light, this feature shifts the Windows 10 and 11 display to show warmer colors that reduce the amount of emitted blue light. Turning the feature on is a simple process.
Step 1: Right-click on the Start button and select Settings on the Power User menu. Alternatively, you can press the Windows + X keys and then click Settings.
Step 2: Choose System in the pop-up window.
Step 3: On Windows 10, the Display category opens by default. In Windows 11 , you'll need to select it from the list of categories on the right. Scroll down on the right and toggle on the Night Light setting. In Windows 11, you'll find the setting in the Brightness & color section.
Kevin Parrish / Digital Trends Step 4: To configure the Night Light feature, click the Night Light Settings link located under the toggle. Here, you’ll find options for turning Night Light on immediately, adjusting the strength, and scheduling when it turns on and off. In Windows 11, hit the arrow key to the right to access these settings.
Kevin Parrish / Digital Trends Step 5: To set the schedule, toggle the Schedule Night Light option to on. Then, you can either choose to let Night Light turn itself on at sunset and off at sunrise — automatically determined by your location — or you can set the time manually by clicking Set Hours and choosing when the feature should turn on and off.
When you first turn the feature on, you’ll notice the color shift immediately. After a while, your eyes will adjust to the change, and it should be less obvious. By reducing the amount of blue light, however, the Night Light feature will then limit the impact of using your Windows PC late at night — you could find it easier to get to sleep, and your sleep might be deeper and more restful.
Image used with permission by copyright holder MacOS First introduced in iOS, Apple brought Night Shift to Macs in macOS Sierra in March 2017. As with Windows, the feature is easy to turn on and configure to your tastes.
Step 1: Click the Apple logo in the top-left corner and select System Preferences on the drop-down menu. Alternatively, click the System Preferences icon on the Dock.
 In macOS Ventura and later, the utility is called System Settings.
Step 2: Select Displays in the pop-up window. On macOS Ventura and later, select Displays from the list of categories on the left.
Step 3: Click the Night Shift tab in the following pop-up window.
Here, you can configure when Night Shift automatically runs, turn it on until the next sunrise, and set your preferred color temperature. For scheduling, you can let macOS turn it on and off at sunset and sunrise based on your location, or you can set a custom schedule.
As with Windows 10’s Night Light feature, Apple’s Night Shift makes your display’s colors warmer and reduces the amount of emitted blue light. Give it a try to see if it improves your sleep habits and helpss you be healthier, more productive, and generally a happier Mac user.
Mark Coppock / Digital Trends Kevin Parrish / Digital Trends Chromebooks Devices based on Google’s Chrome OS have a built-in blue light filter called Night Light. The simplest way to enable this feature is to click on the System Clock followed by the Night Light button on the pop-up menu. The screen is automatically washed with a dark amber hue.
For more control over Night Light, do the following: Step 1: Click on the System Clock and select the Gear icon on the pop-up menu. This opens the Settings window.
Step 2: Select Device listed on the left.
Step 3: Select Displays listed on the right.
Kevin Parrish / Digital Trends Step 4: Click on the toggle located to the right of Night Light to enable this feature. On macOS Ventura and later, click on Night Shift...
at the bottom of the window to open the settings.
Step 5: Move the slider between Cooler and Warmer to adjust the blue light level.
Step 6: Next to Schedule , click the Down Arrow to select Never , Sunrise to Sunset , or Custom.
Step 7: If you select Custom , a timeline appears from 6 p.m. to 6 p.m. Select the duration by moving the start and stop times accordingly.
Acer External displays While you can change the level of blue light on the software side, external monitors may include a blue light filter you can manage with integrated On Screen Display (OCD) controls.
For instance, press the OCD button on Acer’s SB220Q 21.5-inch display, and a control panel appears on the screen separate from the PC’s desktop. As shown above, it includes options for adjusting the brightness, sharpness, and blue light. You can manually switch between 50% to 80%. You will get more blue light as you increase this value.
Overall, it’s more convenient to adjust the blue light level directly through your computer’s operating system than by doing so on the monitor. On the other hand, if you use the same monitor for several devices, altering the settings on the side of your monitor may be a far more straightforward approach.
Third-party alternatives F.lux: F.lux is an innovative third-party alternative to adjusting your monitor’s color levels. This tech carefully monitors the sunlight level in your area and adjusts your screen’s color temperature accordingly. It’s available for free for Windows , macOS , and Linux.
 You can also use it to adjust the lights in your home by pairing it with a smart lighting system. You can turn the feature off whenever you want by toggling a switch.
Iris Mini: The Iris Mini is an impressive, ultra-lightweight blue light filter application. It’s a streamlined option; there are no UI, buttons, or extra steps. The feature can automatically adjust the color on your monitor to minimize effects of glare or blue light. You can change settings manually or rely on Iris Mini’s automatic feature. The automatic mode evaluates the time of day and adjusts colors accordingly. There are versions available for Windows, Mac, and Linux.
Editors' Recommendations How to add and use desktop widgets in macOS Sonoma Here’s how to combine PDF files the easy way Common macOS Sonoma problems and how to fix them How to download macOS 14 Sonoma How to check your Mac’s temperatures Apple How-To Apple How-To Guides Mac Microsoft Microsoft Windows Software Windows 10 Windows Guides Computing Many different businesses use Outlook as a way to organize everything from meetings to their employees’ daily tasks. Of course, you can also use Outlook in your personal life as well.
Computing People like to think that Apple’s Macs are more or less invulnerable to the assorted viruses and trojans that afflict Windows PCs, but that’s far from the truth. That’s just been aptly demonstrated by the emergence of a new malware strain that attempts to steal all of your passwords, credit card data, and more.
The discovery was made by security firm SentinelOne, which named the malware MetaStealer. According to SentinelOne, MetaStealer has the potential to trick you into giving away vital information that could cause a huge amount of damage, and it has a nefarious way of getting what it wants.
Computing Need to review your Wi-Fi password on a Mac? It happens to all of us. Sometimes you need to check up on a Wi-Fi password to share it with a friend, or you want to make sure that your security habits are up to standard with a strong password. With today’s plentiful autofill logins, it may have been a long time since you even thought about your Wi-Fi login info, or you may need to retrieve a past Wi-Fi password you used at a certain location but cannot retrieve right now.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
