Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The HP Omen 16 is an unfortunate pricing mishap By Jacob Roach Close $1,850.00 Great port selection Understated design Comfortable keyboard Solid battery life (for a gaming laptop) Tons of bloatware Disappointing screen Lagging in gaming performance HP wants the Omen 16 to grow up. The storied laptop is perhaps best known for its bargain bin pricing, and although that tier of machine can’t compete with the best gaming laptop s, previous versions of the Omen 16 have struck the right chord on value. The 2023 Omen 16 is a different beast, packing in much more powerful components to try and push into a premium tier of gaming laptops.
HP Omen 16 (2023) specs HP Omen 16: design HP Omen 16: ports HP Omen 16: keyboard and trackpad HP Omen 16: display HP Omen 16: CPU performance HP Omen 16: gaming performance HP Omen 16: battery life HP Omen 16: bloatware HP Omen 16: verdict The Omen 16 2023 succeeds at being a more powerful version of the previously budget gaming laptop , but it stumbles too much along the way. A high price combined with decisions that seem rooted in the Omen 16’s budget past make it a tough sell for gamers looking for a premium laptop. It’s a laptop with one foot in budget laptops and the other stepping toward premium, and it doesn’t seem to find its spot in either camp.
I fell in love with this adorable mini gaming PC Call of Duty Modern Warfare 3: best settings, benchmarks, and more Best HP laptop deals: Get a Windows laptop for $199 HP Omen 16 (2023) specs I reviewed the top spec for the Omen 16, packing an AMD Ryzen 9 7940HS and an Nvidia RTX 4070. This configuration comes in at $1,620 on HP’s website, but you’ll find it for much more at retailers. At Best Buy, for example, it runs $1,850 for the exact same configuration.
That’s a little pricey for an RTX 4070 laptop, but it’s not the GPU or CPU that’s the problem here. At retailers, you’re spending $1,850 for a 1080p screen and only 512GB of storage. That’s unheard of for any laptop over $1,500. It’s not a great screen, either, as I’ll dig into later in this review.
HP Omen 16 (2023) Dimensions 14.53 x 10.21 x 0.93 inches Weight 5.23 pounds Processor AMD Ryzen 9 7940HS Graphics Nvidia RTX 4070 (95W TGP) RAM 16GB DDR5-5600 Display 16.1-inch, 1080p IPS, 7ms response time, 165Hz Storage 512GB NVMe SSD Touch N/A Ports 2x USB-A 3.2 Gen 1, 2x USB-C (1x with USB power deliver), HDMI 2.1, Ethernet, 3.5mm headphone Wireless Wi-Fi 6E, Bluetooth 5.3 Webcam 720p Operating system Windows 11 Home Battery 83Whr Price $1,850 (Best Buy), $1,620 (HP) You have more options for configuration. The laptop starts at $1,200, and you’ll get a Ryzen 7 7840HS and RTX 4060 for that price, along with the same storage, memory, and display. You can trick the laptop out for $2,090 with the Ryzen 9 7940HS and RTX 4070, along with 32GB of memory, 2TB of storage, and a 1440p display with a 240Hz refresh rate.
HP Omen 16: design Jacob Roach / Digital Trends The HP Omen 16 is understated in the right way. There are no gaudy badges that scream “this is a gaming laptop,” no off-putting translucent keys, and certainly no RGB underglow like you’d find on the Asus ROG Strix Scar 17.
 It’s a reserved design that looks good, even if the final product ends up a little boring.
It’s black all around, only broken up by a silver Omen logo on the lid. Similar to a laptop like the Lenovo Legion 9 , you have rounded corners around the body, as well as a small bit of the body that juts out beyond the screen in the back. It looks premium all around, and you can even engage the RGB lighting on the keyboard whenever you’ve finally sat down to play some games.
I just wish it felt as premium as it looks. The shell is entirely plastic. That’s fine for a laptop packing the specs the HP Omen 16 offers at its asking price, but it’s that type of plastic that sounds hollow when you drum your fingernails on it. Along those lines, there’s the 16:9 display and range of screen flex, which make the laptop feel cheaper than it looks.
It’s possible HP cut back to achieve a certain weight and size, though. This laptop clocks in at 5.23 pounds, which is about a quarter of a pound lighter than similar laptops. It’s still fairly thick, however, coming in at 0.93 inches. That’s even thicker than the RTX 4090-packing MSI GT77 Titan , so despite the low weight, you won’t be carrying the Omen 16 around in a backpack.
HP Omen 16: ports Jacob Roach / Digital Trends One of the best areas of the Omen 16 is its port selection. It has a solid range of ports, and they’re split up smartly around all edges of the machine. On the back, you can get access to full-size HDMI 2.1, Ethernet, the power jack, and a single USB-A port. That keeps the largest cables coming into the laptop out of the way.
HP doesn’t stuff all of the cables back there, though. On the left side, you have two USB-C ports, one of which supports USB power delivery, along with a 3.5mm headphone jack. And there’s a single USB-A port on the right side toward the back, keeping it out of the way if you use an external mouse.
HP Omen 16: keyboard and trackpad Jacob Roach / Digital Trends The Omen 16’s keyboard is firmly in the middle of the pack. It’s not offensive with its solid amount of key travel, but bottoming out the keys feels more mushy than I’d like. It’s about the same amount of travel as you’ll find on the Asus ROG Zephyrus M16 , just without the snappier response of that keyboard.
It’s certainly comfortable enough to type on. My main issue is the layout. HP separates out the arrow keys and block of keys including Insert, End, Home, and the like. It feels like the space isn’t being used as effectively as it could be, considering this is a 16-inch laptop without any dedicated media controls (they’re restricted to the function keys) or a number pad.
The trackpad isn’t any different. It’s large enough as to not become uncomfortable, but again, HP could’ve taken advantage of more space like the Razer Blade 15 OLED does.
HP Omen 16: display Jacob Roach / Digital Trends It’s hard settling for the HP Omen 16’s Full HD display in 2023. HP offers a 1,440p option, but resolution isn’t the main issue here. It’s that HP put a 16:9 screen into a body that feels designed for a 16:10 screen.
There are thick plastic bezels around the screen, with a particularly noticeable one at the bottom sporting an Omen logo. It reminds me of the Origin EON14-S , which has a screen that looks like it was put into a stock body, rather than the more premium-looking displays on machines like the Alienware x16.
The HP Omen 16 isn’t a premium tier of laptops like the Alienware x16, but even its direct competitors have it beat on price while delivering a nicer screen. A similarly configured Lenovo Legion Pro 5 , for example, costs around $400 less at the time of writing and includes a 16:10 display. There’s really no excuse for a 16:9 display in a chassis built for 16:10 from a major PC brand in 2023.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Outside of the aspect ratio, the Full HD option comes with a 165Hz refresh and peaked at just 312 nits of brightness in my testing. HP also claims a 7ms response time on the IPS panel, which is not what you want to see out of a gaming laptop, even with the high refresh rate.
It’s clear that HP intends most users to upgrade to the 1440p display, which comes with a 240Hz refresh rate and 3ms response time for an extra $40. I’m all for having a cheaper display option for those on a strict budget when buying a gaming laptop, but the 1440p panel should be the default option when the laptop runs for more than $1,500 for most configurations.
HP Omen 16: CPU performance Jacob Roach / Digital Trends The Omen 16 displayed some strange behavior during my testing, across both my CPU and GPU benchmarks. It was never truly bad, unlike an inconsistent machine like the MSI Studio 16 , but I never trusted I was truly getting the best performance possible out of the laptop.
That mainly comes down to the performance modes. As usual, I ran the benchmarks on the Balanced and Performance presets, but to varying degrees of success. In Cinebench R23 and R24, the results fell in line with the Performance mode offering a slight bump in performance. The Omen 16 actually managed to outpace the Razer Blade 14 in raw CPU performance with the same processor, though it fell behind in Cinebench R24’s GPU benchmark.
HP Omen 16 (Ryzen 9 7940HS) Razer Blade 14 (Ryzen 9 7940HS) Lenovo Legion Pro 5 (AMD Ryzen 7 7745HX) Lenovo Legion 9i (Intel Core i9-13980HX) Cinebench R23 single/multi 1,778 / 18,229 1,791 / 14,305 1,750 / 16,939 2,041 / 27,301 Cinebench R24 single/multi/GPU 106 / 1,015 / 10,949 N/A, N/A, 11,053 N/A 125 / 1,665 / 23,212 Geekbench 6 single/multi 2,616 / 11,435 N/A N/A 2,959 / 17,367 Geekbench 5 single/multi 1,972 / 11,439 1,927 / 10,801 2,021 / 12,293 N/A The same wasn’t true in Geekbench 6. The Omen 16 actually performed measurably worse in its Performance mode compared to the Balanced preset. Worse, the weaker Core i7-13620H inside the Alienware x14 R2 managed to beat the Omen 16. And in Geekbench 5, the Lenovo Legion Pro 5 was able to beat the Omen 16 as well with its HX-class AMD processor. That makes sense, but there’s no reason a laptop as large as the Omen 16 couldn’t pack a more power-hungry processor.
The worst showcase was in PugetBench for Premiere Pro, however. Weaker laptops straight-up beat the Omen 16 here, with even the Dell Inspiron 16 Plus , sporting an RTX 4060, putting up a higher result.
HP Omen 16 (Ryzen 9 7940HS / RTX 4070) Alienware x14 R2 (Core i7-13620H / RTX 4060) Dell Inspiron 16 Plus (Core i7-13700H / RTX 4060) PugetBench for Premiere Pro 608 554 627 A hint about this performance comes from the fan noise (as I’ll get to in the next section, there is a ton of fan noise). In the benchmarks where the Omen 16 showed performance improvements in its Performance mode, the fans would ramp up, and in benchmarks where it didn’t, the fans would stay quiet. This was repeatable, too.
As a reviewer, that tells me there’s something wrong with how the components and thermals are tuned. Again, the CPU performance here isn’t bad, but it definitely doesn’t feel like HP is making the most of the hardware inside the Omen 16. That’s especially true once we start looking at gaming performance.
HP Omen 16: gaming performance The Omen 16 is certainly no slouch when it comes to gaming performance with the RTX 4070 at the helm, but it still managed to fall short of similarly configured rigs. Below, you can see a breakdown of games I tested at 1080p with maxed-out settings that compares the HP Omen 16 to the Lenovo Legion Pro 5 and the Razer Blade 14, both of which were packing an RTX 4070.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends It’s almost universally outperformed by the Lenovo Legion Pro 5. The Blade 14 falls short, but it’s also a thin and light gaming laptop that’s much smaller than the Omen 16. As you can see below, the same was true in a synthetic benchmark like 3DMark Time Spy, with the Omen 16 trailing the Legion Pro 5 despite both packing very similar components.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends This is the ceiling for performance on the Omen 16 as well. I also ran benchmarks at the Balanced mode, which yielded lower results across the board. These aren’t bad, once again, but similarly configured laptops at a similar size post higher numbers.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends It’s not just the higher numbers here, either. It’s the fan noise. Laptops like the Legion Pro 5 or Blade 14 are much quieter than the Omen 16, even when posting higher performance. The Omen 16 is one of the loudest laptops I’ve tested, and is right up there with a machine featuring an RTX 4090 like the MSI GT77 Titan. Uncomfortably loud fan noise makes sense for a laptop like the GT77 Titan than can rival most high-end desktops. It doesn’t make sense when the Omen 16 can’t even post the same results as its closest competitor, the Legion Pro 5.
It would be easier to write off slightly lower performance on the Omen 16 if it came in at the same budget-focused price as previous models, but it doesn’t. At $1,850 for the configuration I reviewed, the Omen 16 starts to compete with more premium offerings like the Alienware m16 and Asus ROG Zephyrus M16. It’s also a few hundred dollars more than the Legion Pro 5 and Asus ROG Strix G17.
HP Omen 16: battery life The Omen 16 doesn’t have great battery life, which you should never expect out of a gaming laptop. What’s disappointing is that we’ve seen laptops with identical configurations post much higher battery life, and it seems that mostly comes down to software.
In our web-browsing test, the laptop lasted four hours and 54 minutes. That’s not bad for a gaming laptop, especially compared to Intel-based machines like the Lenovo Legion Pro 7i that can’t crack four hours. On the other end, the Razer Blade 14, which comes with identical specs to the Omen 16 I reviewed, managed to last over eight hours, largely due to the fact that it can reduce the refresh rate of the screen when away from a charger.
The Omen 16 isn’t the worst we’ve seen when it comes to battery life, but HP could do more to extend the life of the machine when it’s away from the charger. Thankfully, there’s a setting in the Omen Gaming Hub that allows you to switch to Eco mode automatically when you disconnect the charger, which would likely extend battery life.
HP Omen 16: bloatware Every laptop comes with some bloatware. You can’t avoid it, and I normally don’t touch on the bundled software in a review. The Omen 16 just comes with way too much bloatware to ignore. Here’s everything that comes installed: Dropbox ExpressVPN HP Connection Optimizer HP Documentation HP PC Hardware Diagnostics HP Privacy Settings HP QuickDrop HP Smart HP Support Assistant HyperX Ngenuinity McAfee MyHP Omen Gaming Hub There’s way too much here to justify. The triple threat of Dropbox, ExpressVPN, and McAfee — all on limited promotions intended to get you upgrade — are already frustrating, popping up at inopportune moments to tug your pant leg for money. But the HP apps pose some issues, too.
They’re too spread out, so it’s never clear where you’re supposed to go for things like updates or support. Others serve no purpose. HyperX Ngenuinity, for example, only works if you have HyperX peripherals (HP owns HyperX, for the record).
You’ll spend most of your time in Omen Gaming Hub, but even this app has problems. Your critical system settings are literally buried (they’re at the bottom of the list) under an integration with game retailer Fanatical and a list of deals on games. It would be one thing if these deals were actually deals, but they’re not. The top of the page is filled with free-to-play titles I’ve never heard of and look of dubious quality, to say the least.
The Omen 16 includes too much bloatware, and even then, that software isn’t all too helpful. If you plan on picking up the Omen 16, be prepared to dedicate some setup time to removing at least some of the apps that come installed.
HP Omen 16: verdict Jacob Roach / Digital Trends It’s hard to recommend the Omen 16, not because it’s bad, but just because it’s not particularly good. At its new premium price, the laptop is competing with machines from Alienware, Asus, Lenovo, and Razer, all without ditching some of the budget-focused ideas that persisted throughout previous versions.
There are upsides here, particularly with the port selection and overall design. The performance isn’t bad either, though you can get better performance out of cheaper machines with similar components. Those upsides unfortunately aren’t enough to counteract the issues with the laptop, especially at its high list price.
The Omen 16 could be a good buy if you find one on sale for a steep discount, however. If you manage to find the laptop around $1,400 for a similar configuration, it’s a great deal. At $1,850, it’s too expensive for what’s on offer.
Editors' Recommendations Best Black Friday gaming laptop deals: Cheapest prices today A typo is ruining this $700 Asus motherboard — but there’s a fix Steam Deck OLED fixes the worst part of Valve’s handheld Best gaming laptop deals: Game on the go from just $550 AMD’s FSR 3 will finally get a chance to shine in Starfield Laptop Reviews Laptops PC PC Gaming Product Reviews Windows Reviews Computing Is it time to buy a new laptop? Then you've come to the right place, as we've gathered some of the best laptop deals that you can shop for today. We've picked laptops for different budgets and needs, ranging from low-priced devices to high-end machines, including Chromebook deals, gaming laptop deals, and MacBook deals. You're going to have to hurry with your purchase if any of these offers catch your eye, though, because we're not sure how much time you've got left to take advantage of them.
HP Stream 14 -- $199, was $229 The HP stream tells you exactly what it does in the name, which is to give you a budget-friendly device that you can use to stream content or use cloud apps. That means that the specs aren't that powerful, with a budget Intel Celeron N4020 processor, 4GB of RAM, and 64GB of storage. Luckily, you do get a great 14-inch touchscreen monitor for easier navigation, and the overall build is pretty good for a budget device. As for battery life, expect around six hours or so, depending on your usage, so it will be good for a good chunk of the day before recharging.
Computing We've known for months that Alan Wake 2 will be one of the most demanding games on PC, but new details show just how taxing the upcoming title from developer Remedy will actually be. According to a now-deleted tweet from a Remedy employee, somewhere around 23% of PC players won't be able to play the game.
To be clear, the employee didn't say that number explicitly. In response to the outcry over the Alan Wake 2 system requirements, the employee shared that only cards with mesh shaders are officially supported, meaning any Nvidia 10-series or AMD RX 5000-series GPUs or older aren't officially supported.
Computing The GPU shortage is over, and gamers around the world can breathe a sigh of relief. For those in the market for one of the best graphics cards, we closely looked at graphics card prices and availability to see where the GPU market is headed and to figure out the best time to buy.
If you're looking for a cheap GPU deal, now is the time to buy. Cards from both AMD and Nvidia usually hover around the recommended list price, but some models are actually priced well below that.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
