Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing News Some surprising details on Intel’s upcoming 14th-gen laptops just leaked By Kunal Khullar Close One of the first laptops powered by Intel’s upcoming 14th-gen Meteor Lake CPUs has been spotted online, and based on what we’re seeing, the prices look surprisingly affordable.
The information originated on X (formerly Twitter) from @momomo_us , who initially shared details about these new laptops via Newegg US. The post disclosed information about the expected CPUs and key specifications of the laptops. Among MSI’s lineup of work laptops featuring Meteor Lake CPUs, the Prestige 13 and 16 are the first ones identified. The leak also mentions the CreatorPro 16 Studio, as well as popular gaming SKUs, the Stealth 14 and 16, although specs for these were not provided.
@momomo_us on X/Twitter Here’s an entire list of laptops that MSI is expected to launch with the new Intel 14th-gen Meteor Lake CPU range: Prestige 16 AI Studio Prestige 13 AI Studio Prestige 16 AI EVO Prestige 13 AI EVO Stealth 14 AI Studio Stealth 14 AI Stealth 16 AI Studio Stealth 13 AI Studio Stealth 16 AI Stealth 13 AI CreatorPro 16 AI Studio But again, the important bit here is the pricing. As per the listing, the MSI Prestige 13 will be the most affordable option starting at $1,049. Note that this is a configuration with 16GB of RAM and 512GB of storage. This makes it cheaper than the previously rumored pricing of $1,500 and above suggested by Money UDN.
Intel 14th-gen Meteor Lake: news, rumors, release date speculation Intel is using AI to make your laptop battery last longer Intel’s 14th-gen Raptor Lake refresh might be a major disappointment These laptops are set to incorporate Intel Core Ultra 5 and Core Ultra 7 CPUs, boasting top-tier features such as 6400 MHz DDR5 memory and OLED displays with impressive color gamut capabilities. The anticipated MSI Prestige 13 AI Evo, equipped with the Core Ultra 5 125H, is speculated to feature a 16-core and 24-thread configuration. Although the exact clock speeds of these CPUs remain speculative, rumors suggest the Core Ultra 5 125H could potentially reach a boost clock speed of up to 4.50GHz.
A higher-end variant housing the Core Ultra 7 155H has also been identified, and is expected to offer a total core count of 14 with 18 threads and a boost clock speed of up to 4.80GHz.
Despite the absence of dedicated GPUs, they should reportedly be able to handle content creation and light gaming thanks to the latest Arc Alchemist-based integrated GPU.
 As per Intel, the updated graphics solution can offer similar performance as a low-end discrete GPU and support modern features like ray tracing, DX12 Ultimate, and XeSS.
MSI could unveil its new Prestige AI EVO laptops at the upcoming Intel “AI Everywhere” launch event on December 14 followed by availability on December 18. If not, CES 2024 is a safe bet for a timeline for many of these new 14th-gen laptops to be debuted.
Editors' Recommendations Intel’s Raptor Lake refresh prices have leaked, and hikes are on the way Intel’s Core Ultra CPUs are more Apple, less AMD Get ready to pay more for Intel’s next-gen CPUs Yet another disappointment about Intel’s next chips may be true Intel’s most powerful CPUs may not launch until 2024 Intel Tech News Computing Intel is expected to introduce its new range of 14th-gen desktop processors later this year. While we don’t have a whole lot of official information yet, a new leak now suggests that one can expect a considerable boost in the core count for the cheaper processors in the lineup.
According to the information shared by Red Gaming Tech, Intel's upcoming 14th-gen range will be referred to as "Raptor Lake Refresh" instead of the previously rumored Meteor Lake series. The new 14th-gen range of CPUs is expected to feature the same architecture and core design as the existing 13th-gen Raptor Lake CPUs -- but with some minor tweaks.
Computing Intel has just made a pretty significant announcement -- it's rebranding its processors. Starting with Meteor Lake CPUs, Intel's consumer processors will bear a new name: Intel Core and Intel Core Ultra. Even more head-turning, Intel will also drop the iconic "i" in its naming scheme.
The change might seem subtle on the surface, but it says something meaningful about the state of the industry and Intel's role in it. For so many years, Intel's commanding lead in the processor world meant its competitors were the ones mimicking its approach to product names and marketing -- AMD, most obviously.
Computing Intel is pushing laptop CPU core counts to places they've never been before. The company announced its 13th-gen Raptor Lake mobile processors at CES 2023, including the flagship Core i9-13980HX which includes a massive 24 cores that could top the list of the best Intel processors.
That sounds insane considering even AMD's desktop Ryzen 9 7950X only comes with 16 cores. But Intel's cores aren't all built equally. Like the previous generation, 13th-gen mobile Raptor Lake processors include a combination of performance (P) cores and efficient (E) cores. The most powerful chips in the range come with 24 cores, but they're split across eight P-cores and 16 E-cores.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
