Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Save $500 on this Alienware gaming PC with an RTX 4090, 32GB of RAM By Aaron Mamiit Close Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Pre-built PCs are great for those who don’t have the time or skills to build their own PC , and while it does cost a little bit extra to go with a pre-built, there are some great gaming PC deals you can take advantage of to mitigate that. Of course, if you’re looking to get one of the best gaming PCs out there, you can’t go wrong with an Alienware PC. It’s a company that has been around for well over a decade, making high-end gaming laptops and desktops, so it has a lot of powerful PCs you can pick from, like the Aurora R15.
There are quite a few configurations of the Aurora R15, but we found a great deal on one that has an RTX 4090 , one of the best GPUs on the market and a beast of a machine. While it usually costs $3,900, Dell has knocked off a massive $500, so you can get it now for $3,200. While that’s still a bit expensive, it’s well worth the cost given you’re getting some of the best hardware on the market, especially with the $500 discount.
Why you should buy the Alienware Aurora R15 gaming PC If you want to play the best PC games at their highest settings, the Alienware Aurora R15 gaming PC has your back. Inside its stylish chassis are the 13th-generation Intel Core i9 processor and the Nvidia GeForce RTX 4090 graphics card , plus 32GB of RAM that will give you room to run streaming apps and other software while you’re playing video games, according to our guide on how much RAM do you need.
 With these specifications, you’ll be ready to run the best upcoming PC games without the need for further upgrades.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
The 1TB SSD of the Alienware Aurora R15 gaming desktop is large enough to install several AAA titles, in addition to Windows 11 Home that comes pre-loaded. A liquid cooling system not only keeps the gaming PC running at optimum conditions, but it also maintains silence while you play so you won’t be distracted when you’re in the middle of a tough online battle or a boss fight. The Alienware Aurora R15 also provides access to the Alienware Command Center, which offers auto-tuned game profiles, overclocking options, AlienFX lighting settings, and many more.
There’s no other way to say it — the Alienware Aurora R15 gaming desktop is a powerhouse, and it’s actually a steal at its discounted price of $3,400. You’ll be able to use the $500 in savings on its original price of $3,900 on video games and accessories, but you’ll have to act fast because this opportunity may not last long.
Editors' Recommendations Best Alienware gaming laptop Black Friday deals — save $800 The best gaming PC Black Friday deals you can shop right now Samsung monitor Black Friday deals: Save on 4K and gaming monitors Flash sale knocks $400 off this Lenovo gaming PC with an RTX 3060 This iMac-style Dell all-in-one PC is discounted to $500 right now Deals Gaming Dell Computing While some gaming laptop deals can get you a dependable device for a cheap price, some gamers want to go all out when buying their next machine. If you're willing to make a significant investment, but you were hoping to take advantage of a discount, you should check out Dell's offer for the Alienware m16. From its original price of $3,750, it's down to $2,950 for savings of $800 -- it's still not cheap, but it's the price you should be willing to pay for a future-proof gaming laptop. You need to hurry with your purchase though, as its price could go back to normal at any moment.
Why you should buy the Alienware m16 gaming laptop If you want a gaming laptop that's not only capable of playing the best PC games at the highest settings, but also prepared to run upcoming PC games for the next few years, you can't go wrong with the Alienware m16. With its 13th-generation Intel Core i9 processor, Nvidia GeForce RTX 4090 graphics card, and 64GB of RAM that's beyond the recommended figure by our guide on how much RAM do you need, the Alienware m16 won't need any upgrading any time soon.
Computing Dell's Alienware brand is one of the most trusted names in the gaming industry, so it should be one of your top options if you're looking for gaming laptop deals or gaming PC deals. The stylish designs and powerful performance don't come cheap though, so you're going to want to take advantage of Alienware deals so that you can enjoy some savings with your purchase. We've rounded up our favorite offers here to help you pick your next gaming machine, but you need to hurry with your decision on what to buy because some of these discounts won't last long.
Alienware Aurora R15 gaming desktop (RTX 4060) -- $1,300, was $1,600 The Alienware Aurora R15 gaming desktop is powered by the latest 13th-generation Intel Core i7 processor, the Nvidia GeForce RTX 4060 graphics card, and 16GB of RAM, which are enough to play the best PC games without any issues. The gaming PC also comes with Windows 11 Home pre-loaded, so you can start installing your favorite titles on its 512GB SSD as soon as you set it up.
Computing Building your own PC from scratch can be a lot of fun, but if you aren't tech-savvy or don't have the time to do it, then going for a pre-built PC is a great option. While you will lose a little bit of money in the process for assembly and parts, there are a lot of great gaming PC deals you can take advantage of to mitigate that issue. You also get the PC essentially ready to plug and play so that you can jump right into the best PC games out there and have some fun and entertainment.
So, if you're ready for an upgrade, this Legion Tower 7i is a great option, given that it comes with the impressive RTX 4080 graphics card. That will let you play many games, including AAAs, without too much issue, even on higher-end monitors. Even better, Lenovo is heavily discounting it to $2,350 instead of the usual $2,990 it goes for. That's a steep $640 that's being knocked off the price, and Lenovo even throws in three months of Xbox Game Pass, so this is an excellent deal all-around.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
