Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Split Screen in Windows 11 Windows 11 Requirements Get Windows 11 for Free Screenshot on Windows 11 Uninstall Windows 11 Android Apps on Windows 11 Home Computing Guides Will my computer automatically update for daylight saving time? By Fionna Agomuoh Close Daylight saving time ends in the U.S. at 2 a.m. on Sunday, November 5, when those who observe the calendar ritual will set their clocks to “fall back” one hour. This means that areas that follow the practice will “gain” one hour of sleep that day and gain extra minutes of morning daylight each day as winter approaches.
Windows: correct your time zone in Settings Windows: correct your time zone in Control Panel Windows: synchronize with internet time Mac: fix for macOS High Sierra or later Mac: fix for older macOS versions Daylight saving time is practiced in most of Europe, most of North America, and parts of Asia, South America, and Oceania. For regions that observe daylight saving time, it involves changing clocks by one hour in the spring and fall to give people more hours of daylight. Clocks are set to “spring forward” by one hour in the spring to align with daylight saving time and “fall back” by one hour in the fall to reset to standard time.
Many people are accustomed to a number of electronic devices updating automatically and not having to take any action. However, products such as Windows and Mac computers can have some hiccups when attempting to adjust back to standard time.
If you find you’re having trouble with your computer automatically updating to standard time, consider some of these fixes.
Windows: correct your time zone in Settings A simple option for attempting to correct a Windows computer that won’t update automatically is to make sure your PC is set to the right time zone. If you’ve changed your time zone manually while traveling, for example, you could have accidentally disabled the automatic update for the daylight saving time feature. Luckily, there are several fixes you can try. This one, the simplest method, requires you to go through your Settings.
It should be noted that the screenshot below is for Windows 10, but a nearly identical menu exists in Windows 11 under Time & language in the Settings app. Alternatively, you can access this menu by right-clicking the time displayed on the bottom-right side of the Taskbar. From there, just click Adjust date and time.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 1: Select Windows + I.
This will bring up the Settings window. Then choose Time & language > Date & time.
Step 2: From here, if the Adjust for daylight saving time automatically feature is grayed out, you will need to change the time zone.
Step 3: Toggle off the Set time zone automatically option to open the Time zone drop-down menu for editing.
Step 4: Select your proper time zone.
Step 5: You should then see the Adjust for daylight saving time automatically option toggled on.
Step 6: Also, make sure Set time zone automatically and Set time automatically are toggled on again.
Windows: correct your time zone in Control Panel This time zone fix is also fairly simple, but just takes a little digging into your device’s internal clock. It requires you to go through your Control Panel.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 1: Select Windows + R.
Step 2: Select Control > Enter.
 This will open your computer’s Control Panel.
Step 3: Select Clock and region > Date and time.
 This will open the Date and time settings window.
Step 4: Select the Change time zone button.
Step 5: This will bring up a new pop-up, from which you can select your proper time zone from the drop-down menu.
Step 6: Select the Automatically adjust clock for Daylight Saving Time check box option below the drop drop-down menu.
Step 7: Select OK to save changes. Then select OK again.
Windows: synchronize with internet time If your automatic update issue is not as simple as fixing the time zone on the computer, you may need to attempt to match your computer with internet time. The two ways to do this are by syncing to the Windows time server or the NIST time server.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 1: Select Windows + R.
Step 2: Select Control > Enter.
 This will open your computer’s Control Panel.
Step 3: Select Clock and region > Date and time.
 The Date and time settings pop-up will appear.
Step 4: Select the Internet time tab > and the Change settings option.
Step 5: Select the Synchronize with an Internet time server check box option and select the time.windows.com server from the drop-down.
Step 6: Select Update now.
Step 7: Select OK after the synchronization is complete.
Step 8: If the Daylight saving time feature is still grayed out in Settings, test the second option by selecting time.nist.gov in the Server drop-down menu and updating the Settings again.
Mac: fix for macOS High Sierra or later Newer Mac computers have easier mechanisms for automatic updates for daylight saving time. However, if you do run into any issues, Apple does have some steps you can take to remedy the problems. Keep in mind, this fix is for Macs running macOS High Sierra or later. There is also a fix for older Macs below.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 1: Ensure your Mac is connected to the internet.
Step 2: Select Apple menu > System preferences > Date & time.
Step 3: If you see a message that says Updated time zone information is available , restart your Mac.
Step 4: If that message does not appear, quit System preferences , wait several minutes, and open Date & time again.
Step 5: You should see a time zone update message at the bottom of the Time zone settings in Date & time preferences. From here, you should restart your Mac to get the update.
Mac: fix for older macOS versions If you have an older Mac , your best option is likely to update the computer manually.
Step 1: Select Apple menu > System preferences > Date & time.
Step 2: In the Time zone settings , deselect Set time zone automatically using the current location , then choose your desired time zone.
Step 3: Depending on the system version, you might need to select the lock option to save these settings and set the changes.
Microsoft Microsoft Windows Windows 11 Windows Guides Computing The design of Apple's Magic Mouse continues to be a major complaint among Mac users, a blight on Apple's otherwise fantastic design choices. The ergonomics are inhuman, it still uses a Lightning charging port (even on the new M3 iMac), and it can't be charged while being used.
However, an engineer has introduced his design concept that would not only solve the charging issue on the Magic Mouse but also make the design ergonomic and comfortable for natural handling.
Computing Lenovo is probably one of the best-known laptop makers, especially since they have an incredibly wide variety of them to choose from. That also means they have an excellent selection of gaming laptops, so you can hone in on something that fits your budget. That's especially the case with the ongoing early Black Friday deals that are seeing laptops being cut down in price across the board. That said, Lenovo's selection of gaming laptops is too wide for us to include all their active deals here, so we've selected some of our favorites for both AMD and Intel CPUs. Also, if you're not sure of where to start, you should check out our list of best Lenovo laptops for some good options.
Best Lenovo Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals (AMD) Lenovo has a wider selection of AMD gaming laptops, which is great if you want to go with something AMD-powered. Unfortunately, there aren't any good deals on Lenovo laptops with both an AMD CPU and GPU, but the selection below is wide enough to pick something that fits your needs a bit better. And, if you want something with an RTX 4090 on a budget, then the AMD version is probably the cheapest for Lenovo.
Computing Printers are complicated machines featuring a mix of plastics, metals, electronics, and components, some of which are potentially flagged as hazardous waste. In 2023, it's more important than ever to be kind to the planet, and there are several environmentally safe ways to dispose of a printer.
Even the best printers in the world can reach the end of their life after several years if ink or toner is no longer available. A well-loved printer can suffer from accumulated wear and tear or damage from a catastrophic power surge that's too expensive to repair.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
