Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Split Screen in Windows 11 Windows 11 Requirements Get Windows 11 for Free Screenshot on Windows 11 Uninstall Windows 11 Android Apps on Windows 11 Home Computing News A major Windows update just launched. Here’s what’s new By Monica J. White Close Microsoft Microsoft has just announced the latest update to Windows 11, which brings the operating system up to version 23H2. This is a cumulative update that comes with some of the most exciting features already announced in September, including Copilot, and brings some changes to Teams, among other things. Here’s what’s new and how to get it on your own PC.
When Microsoft first announced Copilot during its September event, many thought that it’d be available right away — and it was, but not widely. Now, with the 23H2 update, Copilot should be downloaded and toggled on by default, alongside everything else that was announced during the Surface event.
 Some new things are on the way, too.
There aren’t that many things that Microsoft hasn’t previewed before, but there are a couple. For one, the Chat function is now the free version of Microsoft Teams and will be pinned to your taskbar by default. Teams is the central hub for all things related to communications on Windows, including text chat, calls, meetings, and community chats. In addition, you’ll be able to send and receive SMS messages through Teams — a feature many might remember from Skype. Lastly, you’ll be able to find people you may know through Teams easier than before with the new “People” experience.
A new iMac Pro could still launch. Here’s what I want from it I love Macs. But here are 5 reasons I keep coming back to Windows I saw the AI future of Windows 11, and it blew me away Microsoft has also streamlined finding system components in the Start menu, making them easier to find in their own dedicated section.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Let’s also quickly recap what we can expect from the update, and a lot of it might feel like a repeat of what we already know. However, Microsoft has been rolling these features out slowly, and now, we’re supposed to get all of them.
Microsoft’s Copilot is the biggest change. It’s woven into the OS and it can do a whole bunch of things, from organizing your files to writing a blog post. It’s essentially Bing Chat for Windows, and it can be controlled by voice, too. We have a guide on how to use Copilot to get you started.
Further updates include AI capabilities coming to Paint, Snipping Tool, and Photos. Paint now supports layers and intuitive background removal, but also allows you to turn text prompts into images, supported by the DALL-E 3 model. Video editing gets easier with Microsoft Clipchamp, and Snipping Tool will now let you screen record, complete with audio.
Microsoft is also making it easier to switch to a new PC by using Windows Backup, allowing users to download their backed-up data directly from the cloud just by logging into their Microsoft accounts. Microsoft is also promoting Passkeys, a feature that might one day replace passwords, which only requires that you smile at the screen in order to log on. There’s more — check out the full list of features that started rolling out in September in Microsoft’s blog post.
How to download the Windows 11 23H2 update Mark Coppock / Digital Trends As long as you’re already running the previous Windows 11 22H2 update, you’ll be able to download the new version by opting in. It appears that the update won’t become mandatory for a while yet, but it’s a lot more widely available now than it was before. To get it, head to Settings, then Windows Update.
 Select Check for updates and turn on getting the latest updates as soon as they’re available.
If you’re in no rush to try this new patch out right away, it’ll most likely come to your PC at some point in the next few months. However, if you’re excited to try out Copilot, now is your chance to experience the evolution of AI in Windows firsthand.
Editors' Recommendations Windows is just an application now ‘Compact Mode’ can’t fix the Xbox app. Here’s what could If you have an AMD GPU, stay away from the latest Windows Update The latest Windows Update is reportedly causing Starfield problems Windows 11 vs. Windows 10: finally time to upgrade? News Microsoft Microsoft Windows Tech News Windows 11 Computing From smart speakers to ChatGPT and Bing Chat, AI has slowly crept into our lives, but not all instances of AI are as prominent as those three examples. Sometimes, the effect is subtle, but still pretty nice. It appears that Microsoft is working on one such instance of AI-enhanced tech that could make using Windows 11 just a little more pleasant. We're talking about AI-powered live wallpapers, and they might be coming soon.
First spotted by Windows Latest, Microsoft is readying an AI-powered desktop that could make the whole user experience feel a lot more interactive. The idea is to adjust depth perception and make some backgrounds appear more "alive" when moving your cursor or the entire device. The wallpaper might move or shift, depending on what you're doing on the desktop.
Computing Since I started reviewing laptops here at Digital Trends, I've worked on over 240 devices. That means I always have a device or two to use, but the machines themselves aren't so important. It's what I can do with them that counts. That's why I install a core group of applications on every laptop I set up.
Going through the process of setting up a new laptop several times a month means I have a list of applications I reach for. If you're setting up a new PC for the first time, here's what you should download.
The basics Computing Windows 11 is chock-full of shortcuts that can help you work more efficiently and effectively. Some of them are unique to Windows, and some are common to most operating systems. But if you're a Windows user, then you'll want to keep each of these in mind.
There are too many shortcuts to cover, so I'm focusing on the ones that I use the most. I'm a writer who uses a variety of systems to get my work done, so my favorite shortcuts are specific to what I do the most. You may come across some other shortcuts that are more relevant to your workflow, but these are the ones I reach for constantly.
The basics Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
