Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Alienware’s x14 R2 might be my new favorite gaming laptop By Jacob Roach Close $1,900.00 Thinnest 14-inch gaming laptop Fantastic battery life Solid performance USB-C charging Comfortable keyboard Tiny trackpad Only one USB-A port Middling screen The last time we looked at the Alienware x14 — almost a year ago to the date at the time of publication — it was clear the storied gaming brand had a compelling laptop on its hands. A few issues, absolutely, but the Alienware x14 impressed with its reasonable pricing, excellent portability, and solid build quality. The Alienware x14 R2 is an attempt to correct the problems with the previous version and earn it a spot among the best gaming laptops.
 But old habits die hard.
Alienware x14 R2 specs Going industrial Where’s the second USB-A? Good screen for gaming Great keyboard, smushed trackpad Off the charts CPU performance All the gaming power you need All-day battery life The leading 14-inch gaming laptop A fresh coat of paint and a component swap is what the Alienware x14 R2 brings to the table. It’s still a world-class 14-inch gaming laptop and one that’s easy to recommend with a few caveats. I had just hoped Alienware would take the opportunity of a second revision to improve on some of the fundamental issues of the original, especially considering the machine’s price tag compared to the competition.
ROG Flow X13 (2023) vs. ROG Zephyrus G14 (2023): compact gaming laptops Alienware’s new gaming monitors come with a retractable headset stand You can now buy the Alienware x14, starting at $1,650 Alienware x14 R2 specs Jacob Roach / Digital Trends I reviewed a tricked-out version of the Alienware x14 R2, which isn’t all that tricked out as it turns out. Alienware plays its cards smartly here with components, so although you can’t pack in an RTX 4090 like you can with the Asus ROG Strix Scar 17 , the Alienware x14 R2 trades raw power for great portability.
Smart is the right word to use here, too. Competitive machines like the Asus ROG Zephyrus G14 offer up to an RTX 4090 while still promising a highly portable gaming experience. I haven’t tested that machine myself, but the specs feel like a mismatch. The Alienware x14 R2, on the other hand, feels tailored. It’s a configuration that feels right for the size and portability of the laptop.
Alienware x14 R2 Dimensions 0.57 x 12.64 x 10.25 inches Weight 4.22 pounds Processor Intel Core i7-13620H Graphics Nvidia RTX 4060 (85W) RAM 16GB LPDDR5-6000 Display 14-inch, 2560 x 1600, 165Hz, IPS Storage 1TB Touch N/A Ports 1x USB 3.2 Gen2 Type-A, 1x USB-C 3.2 Gen 2 w/ 130W PD, 2x Thunderbolt 4, 1x HDMI 2.1, 1x MicroSD Wireless Wi-Fi 6E, Bluetooth 5.2 Webcam 1080p at 30 fps Operating system Windows 11 Home Battery 80 Whr Price (as configured) $1,900 And, as I’ll dig into later with my benchmarks, the performance delivers what it needs to. That’s an important factor to consider over raw performance considering the Alienware x14 R2 is the thinnest laptop in its class, clocking in at just 0.57 inches.
Interestingly, it’s also the heaviest at 4.22 pounds (the Razer Blade 14 is 4.05 pounds, while the plastic shell of the Zephyrus G14 allows it to hit 3.64 pounds). Don’t let the thinness fool you. The Alienware x14 R2 is built like an absolute unit.
Going industrial Jacob Roach / Digital Trends The Alienware x14 R2 looks similar to the previous model, but it carries Alienware’s new Legend 3 design language, similar to the 2023 Alienware x16.
 The most immediate difference is the stark silver top that’s adorned with a debossed X. It’s an industrial look that I think takes a backseat to the Lunar White colorway Alienware previously offered. It certainly doesn’t look bad, but I’ll let you decide if you like the new look.
I am a fan of the back now, which is flat instead of angled like the previous design. Alienware packs most of the cooling on the x14 R2 on the back of the machine, with a heat stack jutting out of the back of the laptop, as well as exhausts taking up about a third of the space normally occupied by the keyboard. This pushes the keyboard and trackpad away from the screen and toward you (more on that later).
RGB also makes an appearance, both for per-key lighting on the keyboard and for the Alienware logo on top. The x14 doesn’t add the “stadium lighting” strip on the back like the x16 does, though, and skips the RGB trackpad.
Where’s the second USB-A? Jacob Roach / Digital Trends I’m not a huge fan of the MacBook-like approach Alienware took with the x14 R2. You get two Thunderbolt 4 ports, a full-size HDMI, a MicroSD card slot, and a single USB 3.2 Gen Type-A port. There’s also a USB 3.2 Gen 2 Type-C port with Power Delivery, which doubles as a charging port for the slim 130-watt power adapter.
I’m not sure why the machine is missing a second USB-A port. It’s flush with connections, including a full-size HDMI 2.1 and a microSD card slot, so it’s strange that Alienware opted for two Thunderbolt 4 connections instead. It’s not hard to imagine you’d want to connect an external keyboard and mouse to the Alienware x14 R2, but you can only connect one without springing for a USB-C hub.
All of the connections are on the back of the machine, as well. I like this approach, especially in machines like the Lenovo Legion Pro 5 , as it helps clean up cable clutter. However, it means you have to reach around the machine every time you want to connect or disconnect something. A single USB-A port on the side would go a long way.
The plus here is USB-C charging. The power adaptor for the Alienware x14 R2 is as portable as the laptop itself, which is a welcome change of pace compared to most other gaming laptops. And, when you just need to top off the machine, you can use most GaN chargers without any problems.
Good screen for gaming Jacob Roach / Digital Trends The Alienware x14 R2’s display is decent. That’s the only way to describe it, peaking at 300 nits without any special HDR treatment, and offering up a 165Hz refresh rate. A mini-LED backlight or 240Hz refresh rate would go a long way to help the Alienware x14 R2 stand out, but I suppose that’s a trade-off you make for the lower price of the machine.
It’s not a bad screen by any means. It covered 100% of sRGB and offered a color error of 1.1 in my testing. What really stands out is the 16:10 aspect ratio, though. That was a major point of contention in the previous model, so I’m happy to see Alienware update the aspect ratio of the display.
Great keyboard, smushed trackpad Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Alienware’s X-series keyboard is one of the best you can find on a gaming laptop. It’s snappy, just tactile enough, and has a decent travel distance that’s comfortable for long typing sessions. I also appreciate Alienware’s dedicated volume keys on the side of the board for quickly adjusting your volume. It doesn’t seem like a big deal, but once you press a dedicated button to adjust your volume instead of holding down your Function key, you won’t want to go back.
The trackpad is a different story. It’s way too small, especially stacked up to the luxuriously large trackpad on the Razer Blade 14. I was constantly running out of room, even for minor tasks like scrolling a webpage. This is a laptop you’ll want to use with an external mouse.
It’s a consequence of having so much exhaust at the top of the machine, near the screen. Everything is pushed down, and it’s clear the trackpad was the lowest on the priority list for Alienware.
Off the charts CPU performance You can configure the Alienware x14 R2 with either an Intel Core i5-13420H or Core i7-13620H, offering eight cores and 10 cores, respectively. I tested the latter model, which is a significant step in core count below the Core i7-13700H that’s easier to spot in Intel’s current CPU lineup. It delivers close to the same performance, though.
As you can see from Geekbench 6 and Cinebench R23, the Alienware x14 R2 was able to outpace the Acer Swift X 14 , despite that machine sporting the 14-core Core i7-13700H. Call the Acer a poor design or the Alienware a great one, it doesn’t matter; it’s clear the Alienware x14 R2 is getting the most out of the chip it’s packing.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends That’s even more clear when you look at a real-world test like PugetBench for Premiere Pro. The combo of the Core i7-13620H and RTX 4060 was able to beat out the MacBook Pro 14 with the M1 Pro, and even go toe-to-toe with the Core i9-13905H inside the Lenovo Slim Pro 9i (another 14-core part from Intel).
Single-core speed is great, too. Intel’s most recent processors dominate here, but it’s surprising how close the Alienware x14 R2 is able to get to the Core i9-13900HK inside the Alienware x16. The gaming performance is solid in the Alienware x14 R2, but the CPU performance is what stood out most in my testing.
All the gaming power you need Jacob Roach / Digital Trends You shouldn’t expect flagship performance out of a GPU like the RTX 4060, but it can still hang. It’s just that Alienware caps the card’s power at 85 watts, while the graphics card is capable of 115W. It’s a trade-off for the machine staying relatively cool and quiet while running.
It’s a clear step below what you can get with an RTX 4070 inside the Razer Blade 14, as you can see in my 3DMark Time Spy results above. However, Alienware is definitely closer to the RTX 4070 than it is to the RTX 4050, which, for the record, is also an option in the x14 R2.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends My main issue is how the card performs at the display’s native resolution. It’s not bad, but the Alienware x14 R2 skirts the 60 frames per second (fps) mark and doesn’t hit it in a handful of games, including both Returnal and Red Dead Redemption 2.
I tested at the Ultra preset, so there are definitely ways to improve your performance. I just wouldn’t recommend going below the RTX 4060. Alienware offers both the RTX 4050 and RTX 3050 as GPU options, though they all feed the same 1,600p screen.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends 1080p performance is much better, with the Alienware x14 R2 easily hitting above 60 fps in games as demanding as Cyberpunk 2077.
This feels like the right resolution for this graphics card, and given the relatively small size of the display, it’s easy to accept bumping down the resolution if you still want to keep your game settings high.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends The Alienware x14 R2 has a trick, though: Nvidia’s DLSS 3.
 As you can see in Cyberpunk 2077, DLSS 3 can massively improve performance, even with ray tracing enabled. Four out of the five games I tested support DLSS, as well. With Nvidia’s tech at the helm, you can easily boost your performance above 60 fps at native resolution, assuming you stick with the RTX 4060 configuration.
All-day battery life Gaming laptops aren’t known for great battery life, but the Alienware x14 R2 is a surprisingly efficient machine. It lasted nearly 10 hours in my web browsing test, even outpacing machines like the Dell XPS 15 9530.
This was with the Balanced performance mode as well, so there’s definitely room to save battery life. The big boon here is USB-C charging, though, allowing you to quickly top off the Alienware x14 R2 with a GaN charger even if you don’t have the power brick.
The leading 14-inch gaming laptop Jacob Roach / Digital Trends The Alienware x14 R2 achieves the impossible. It’s a remarkably thin laptop that never feels like it sacrifices build quality or power in the process. And, even with a price hike compared to the previous generation, it still arrives $500 cheaper than Razer’s Blade 14 while offering a thinner build and similar build quality.
That doesn’t mean the laptop is free of compromises, though. The port selection is weak, the trackpad is too thin, and although the screen is good for gaming, it doesn’t do much to stand out. Still, the pros definitely way out the cons here. I hoped for less of an iterative update from Alienware, but the x14 R2 has enough goodness to make it an easy recommendation.
Editors' Recommendations Best Alienware deals: Save on gaming laptops and PCs today Alienware x14 R2 and x16 hands-on review: XPS gaming laptops? Alienware rolls out the first 480Hz laptop displays Alienware x15 R2 debuts 12th-gen Intel on laptops today Alienware x14 hands-on review: A new standard for thin gaming Dell Laptop Reviews PC PC Gaming Product Reviews Windows Reviews Computing Alienware is celebrating 25 years in business by looking back and forward. The company announced the new Aurora, a desktop squarely focused on improved airflow, acoustics, and thermals by utilizing an open-air design and a new layout of components.
For most, the biggest difference is the clear side panel. Breaking from the closed design of the Alienware Aurora R10 and R12, this new design features an optional scratch-resistant clear side panel, which will be available on all Alienware Auroras.
Computing Alienware is refreshing two of its most popular gaming laptops for the new year, the m15 and m17. Both the Alienware m15 and m17 now come with options for Nvidia's next-generation 30-series graphics cards, and the m17 R4 even has a new 360Hz refresh rate display, too. More importantly, it's one of the only laptops to include support for HDMI 2.1, the same standard that new consoles and televisions have adapted.
In addition, Alienware also is introducing a special Ryzen Edition of its Aurora gaming desktop, complete with AMD's 5000 series CPUs and up to a 16-core processor.
Alienware m15 R4 and m17 R4 Deals Dell is king of the hill when it comes to best Prime Day Deals with a $680 discount on one of its high-end gaming laptops. The deal brings down the price of the Alienware m17 R2 to $1,200 from its usual $1,879 tag -- making it a no-brainer for someone who wants an uncompromised gaming experience on a budget. You can take advantage of the offer directly on Dell’s website with the coupon code DBAWAP4 to save over 30%.
The Dell Alienware m17 R2 features just about everything you’d need on a gaming laptop. Its highlight is the premium ninth-generation Intel Core i7 chipset paired with Nvidia’s GeForce RTX 2060 6GB graphics card. On top of that, you have 512GB of SSD storage and 8GB RAM which should be more than enough to play the latest gaming titles such as Call of Duty: Warzone and Microsoft Flight Simulator at the highest resolution.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
