Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Best 2-in-1 laptop deals: Turn your laptop into a tablet for $198 By Andrew Morrisey and Briley Kenney Close There are laptops, and then there are 2-in-1-laptops that offer you the best of both worlds. What worlds? You can seamlessly swap between a tablet-style device, by flipping the keyboard behind the display, or when you need it, instantly swap back to a traditional laptop with keyboard. It will completely evolve your productivity, if you’ve never used one before. The thing is, because of the extra functionality they offer, a 2-in-1-laptop can be expensive. But you’re in luck, as some of the best laptop deals currently taking place are discounts on 2-in-1 laptops. Many of the best laptop brands are currently seeing 2-in-1 models discounted, including the likes of HP, Lenovo, and Dell. We’ve tracked down all of the best 2-in-1 laptop deals taking place right now, so read onward for more details on what might make the best deal for you.
Asus CM3200 Chromebook — $198, was $229 Lenovo 300e Gen 2 — $229, was $599 HP Chromebook x360 — $260, was $390 Lenovo IdeaPad Flex 3 (2022) — $300, was $500 HP Pavilion x360 — $480, was $700 Dell Inspiron 16 — $580, was $750 HP Envy x360 — $630, was $950 Lenovo Yoga 7i — $770, was $1,395 Lenovo ThinkPad X1 Yoga Gen 6 — $999, was $4,249 HP Spectre x360 — $1,000, was $1,400 Samsung Galaxy Book3 360 — $1,000, was $1,250 Lenovo ThinkPad X1 Carbon Gen 11 — $1,825, was $3,319 Asus CM3200 Chromebook — $198, was $229 Image used with permission by copyright holder While the best laptops often focus on delivering as much power as they can into their footprint, the best Chromebooks tend to focus on simplicity and delivering just the things more entry-level users need. This is true with the Asus CM3200 Chromebook, which comes in at under $200. This price point gets you quite a bit, including an HD touchscreen display, an 8-core processor, 4GB of RAM, and 64GB of internal storage space. This is generally plenty for base users like students, or professionals whose work doesn’t go much further beyond word processors, spreadsheets, and browsing the web.
Lenovo 300e Gen 2 — $229, was $599 Lenovo The key with this system is not power. It’s not maximum performance. It’s productivity, portability, and how fast you can get in and out of what you need to be doing. It’s a Windows 11 Pro system with an Intel Celeron N4120 processor, 4GB of LPDDR4 RAM, and a 128GB solid-state drive. It also comes with Intel Wireless-AC 2×2, Bluetooth 5.1, a 720P HD webcam with microphone, and the 11.6-inch screen is touchscreen-enabled. It’s an excellent budget or low-end system for schoolwork, on-the-go productivity tasks, and maybe some work-from-home goodness — depending on what you need.
HP Chromebook x360 — $260, was $390 HP Like all of the best Chromebooks , this HP Chromebook x360 is a fast, flexible, and fun computing device, made to suit the way the modern computing world works. It can compete with the best laptops for high school students , as its small footprint makes for excellent portability and ease of use. But despite its smaller size, it still brings plenty of performance to your computing world, and even has fast charging technology, ensuring you never have to wait long to get back up and going if you manage to drain the battery in the wild.
Lenovo IdeaPad Flex 3 (2022) — $300, was $500 Lenovo The 360-degree hinge swaps between a laptop mode, tent mode, stand mode, and tablet mode, for watching, working, and anything else you’d like to do. Basically, the active configuration is all up to you. Underneath the hood is an Octa-Core (8) MediaTek MT8183 processor, 4GB of LPDDR4 RAM, and 64GB of eMMC storage. The 11.6-inch touchscreen IPS display offers a brightness of 250 nits and works perfectly with a stylus — designed for capacitive touchscreens. Stereo speakers, Bluetooth 4.2, 802.11 AC WiFi 2×2, and a MicroSD card reader complete the list of features. If specs mean nothing to you, then all you need to know is that this Chromebook is reliable, relatively speedy, and capable. If you need a little help deciding, our IdeaPad vs. ThinkPad guide has you covered.
HP Pavilion x360 — $480, was $700 HP With this HP Pavilion 14-inch laptop, HP has condensed all of the power you’ll need for your daily workflow into a footprint that carries easily and is ready to go anywhere with you at a moment’s notice. It’s a super slim laptop, yet it’s still able to pack a punch when it comes to creative work, consuming content, and even gaming. The micro-edge screen brings everything to life, and a 6-core processor combined with 8GB of RAM power you through your work day finish lines. A super speedy 256GB solid state drive is plenty to house all of your favorite software and apps, and a precision touchpad makes working on this HP Pavilion laptop comfortable and convenient. It comes in at a price point that competes with the best budget laptops , but this 14-inch HP Pavilion laptop is ready for professional workflows.
Dell Inspiron 16 — $580, was $750 Dell One of the best Dell laptop deals right now features the Dell Inspiron 2-in-1 laptop. Dell has long been one of the best laptop brands , as it offers multiple lineups of laptops with multiple laptop sizes to choose from within them. With the Inspiron 16 2-in-1 laptop Dell provides a larger option to its Inspiron 14 2-in-1 while at the same time managing to keep a portable laptop frame size. This makes it an ideal laptop for people who spend a lot of time at the screen, whether it be pushing through work days, researching for school, or enjoying a weekend binge watch session. This build has a 6-core AMD Ryzen 5 processor and the 16-inch screen sports Full HD resolution, with a 300 nits brightness rating, so your digital world will be sharp and vibrant when interacting with it.
HP Envy x360 — $630, was $950 HP The HP Envy lineup of laptops is known for being affordable, yet still providing all of the power, portability and comfort we require from our mobile computing devices. Because of this, the HP Envy x360 2-in-1 touchscreen laptop makes a great option for just about anyone. It’s well designed and super slim, making it a truly go-anywhere device, and despite its portability, it still has a 15.6-inch touchscreen that’s great for creators, note-takers, and anyone who wants to get down and dirty with some binge watching. Bang & Olufsen dual speaker sound, fast charging technology, TPM onboard security, WiFi 6E, and great battery life round out the top features of the HP Envy x360 2-in-1 touchscreen laptop, and contribute to making it one of the best HP laptop deals available.
Lenovo Yoga 7i — $770, was $1,395 Lenovo Lenovo’s Yoga lineup offers all sorts of screen sizes and all sorts of hardware combinations. This build of the Lenovo Yoga 7i has plenty of power for most users with an Intel i7 processor and 12GB of RAM. It also has plenty of storage space with a 512GB solid state drive. The display is probably the biggest selling point of the Yoga 7i. It comes in at 15 inches Full HD resolution with anti-glare support. That’s a large touchscreen that’s made to suit creators and people who really enjoy interacting with software and apps through touchscreen functionality. This 2-in-1 also has a 720P HD webcam that makes it great for collaborating and remote working. On top of all of that, you get three months of Xbox Game Pass for free, and this system definitely has enough power to take advantage of most games on the service.
Lenovo ThinkPad X1 Yoga Gen 6 — $999, was $4,249 Lenovo Business in the front, party in the back, and that’s precisely what this workstation offers. Tucked inside is an 11th Gen Intel Core i5 processor, 16GB of LPDDR4 RAM, integrated Intel Iris Xe graphics, and a 512GB solid-state drive. Windows 11 Pro is the operating system of choice, with a 14-inch WUXGA IPS anti-reflection and anti-smudge touchscreen — it has a super impressive 400 nits brightness rating, by the way. The Lenovo Integrated Pen stylus is included for those times when you need to take notes, draw, or get creative. A 720P HD IR and RGB hybrid webcam rests up top, with a privacy shutter so you can hide yourself when you don’t want to be on a call. For a laptop, the specs are incredible and if you’re looking for versatility, power, and all of that in a package that won’t empty your bank account, well, this is a great choice.
HP Spectre x360 — $1,000, was $1,400 Image used with permission by copyright holder While HP offers several different models of the x360 2-in-1 laptop, the Spectre x360 starts to reach specifications that are as much for professionals as anyone. This build has a 10-core Intel i5 processor and 16GB of RAM, as well as a 512GB solid state drive that will provide plenty of speed and should provide plenty of storage. The HP Spectre x360 laptop is made as much for portability as any of the other x360 models, with this model having a smaller display. It comes in at 13.5 inches. This should still be plenty of screen real estate for content creation, photo editing, and watching movies, while at the same time shrinking the laptop’s footprint to make it easy to take anywhere.
Samsung Galaxy Book3 360 — $1,000, was $1,250 Mark Coppock/Digital Trends With the Galaxy Book3 Pro 360 Samsung has managed to pack the power of a laptop into the touchscreen functionality of a tablet. It’s a perfect device for users whose primary work consists of creating professional documents and spreadsheets, but it’s also great for taking notes in class, enjoying a movie on the couch, and creating content for a blog or website. The touchscreen is a unique feature of the Galaxy Book Pro 360, as it combines a touchscreen interface with a vibrant and immersive AMOLED display. It’s a 13.3-inch display that presents content in vibrant, cinematic-like quality, making it a great device for both consuming and creating. It’s also renowned for its design. It’s super thin but it still maintains enough size to pack full of powerful components.
Lenovo ThinkPad X1 Carbon Gen 11 — $1,825, was $3,319 Lenovo Power. Performance. A gorgeous display. Those are some of the best ways to describe Lenovo’s ThinkPad X1 Carbon Gen 11, which features a 14-inch WUXGA anti-glare, touchscreen-enabled panel with a 400 nits brightness rating. It’s bright, vibrant, and pleasing to the eyes. Of course, the other hardware is just as important, and this system is no slouch in that department. A 13th Gen Intel Core i7 processor is at the helm, with 16GB of LPDDR5 RAM — DDR5 is the fastest on the market currently — and a 1TB solid-state drive. The full HD 1080P IR hybrid webcam includes a privacy shutter, but that full HD support is nothing to scoff at. Intel WiFi 6E, Bluetooth 5.1, and a fingerprint reader for security add even better options overall. If you have the funds available don’t sleep on this deal. This laptop is incredible value for what’s included.
Editors' Recommendations 75 best Amazon Black Friday deals on laptops, TVs, Apple, and more Best Chromebook Black Friday deals on HP, Lenovo, and more Best Lenovo laptop Black Friday deals: Chromebooks, gaming laptops, and more Don’t miss this Meta Quest 2 Black Friday deal — Save 17% The best Lenovo gaming laptop Black Friday deals right now Deals Cheapest Prices Laptops Computing If you've been looking out for some of the cheapest Black Friday laptop deals, you're going to love what Best Buy has to offer. Currently, you can buy the sleek looking Lenovo Slim 3 Chromebook for $149 saving a huge $170 off the regular price of $319. Ideal for taking to class or on your commute, this is easily one of the better Black Friday deals at the moment. If you've been waiting to find the right Black Friday Chromebook deals, this is the time to hit buy. If you're not entirely sold, keep reading while we take you through what the Chromebook has to offer.
Why you should buy the Lenovo Slim 3 Chromebook As one of the better Lenovo laptop Black Friday deals, the Lenovo Slim 3 Chromebook is a tempting proposition if your budget is slight but you still want something decent for the price. It has a MediaTek Kompanio 520 processor along with 4GB of memory and 64GB of eMMC storage. Refreshingly and making it a bit more tempting for those after the best Chromebooks, it also has a 14-inch full HD touchscreen.
Computing There are a lot of great Black Friday deals on laptops popping up as we get closer to the Black Friday and Cyber Monday weekend, but we've found a few great deals at Best Buy that are going to expire very soon. Luckily, the deals we've found are spread across budgets and brands, and we've even found a couple of gaming laptops for you to pick from. We've also included some Chromebooks for those who might not want to go with a Windows laptop. Best Buy Black Friday TV deals are blowing up equally as much, so check those out if you're trying to use up a gift card.
Our Favorite Best Buy Black Friday Laptop Deal Lenovo Slim 3 Chromebook -- $149, was $319 Computing Even if your router is only four or five years old, it might be time for an upgrade, given the recent advances in router tech, such as Wi-Fi 6, which has become much more prominent. The same also applies to mesh routers, which have more advanced technology that can handle multiple connected devices, such as smart lights, home security systems, phones, and so forth. Of course, you don't have to pay a lot of money to grab yourself a new router, and there are even some great Black Friday deals you can take advantage of that will save you a little bit of extra cash. We've collected some of our favorite deals on routers below, but be sure to check back regularly as we update with newer and better deals.
Best Router Black Friday Deals Routers are a great option if you don't have a large home or need to cover a lot of square footage, and putting them near you means that you get much better speeds and lower latency when connecting through Wi-Fi. Of course, that may not always be an option, so it's important to know what sort of capacity and speeds routers can do. Most routers will have an "AX" followed by a set of numbers that dictates the maximum speed it can reach, and the rule of thumb is generally that this maximum speed only applies when you're really close to the router, so the further out you go, the less speed you'll get. It's not perfect, but generally more powerful routers that can hit higher speeds will be able to connect at higher speeds further away, although its always best to check the actual real-world performance of a router before taking the plunge.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
