Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Best monitor deals: Gaming, office, curved, OLED and more By Andrew Morrisey Close If you’ve recently purchased a new desktop PC, you’re going to need to get yourself a new monitor as well. Monitors are a good way to land some savings, as even the best monitors often see a discount. There’s a lot to consider when shopping for a new monitor, from resolutions to refresh rates. Screen size is also something to factor in, particularly if you’re looking for a monitor to pair with one of the best laptops.
 We’ve rounded up everything you need to know about how to save on a new monitor, as well as some information to help you decide which is right for you. So whether you’re looking to get a new digital window for your PC or expand your laptop’s screen real estate, these are the best monitor deals out there right now.
Dell SE2422H 24-inch monitor — $100, was $150 Samsung 390C Series 24-inch curved monitor — $120, was $190 Alienware AW3821 38-inch QHD+ curved gaming monitor — $900, was $1,000 Alienware AW3423DW 34-inch QD-OLED curved gaming monitor — $1,100, was $1,200 Dell SE2422H 24-inch monitor — $100, was $150 Dell A simple, affordable option for getting some screen real estate onto your desk is this Dell 24-inch monitor. It’s well designed, sturdy, and compact, which makes it great for smaller desks and spaces. It comes in with Full HD resolution, a 75Hz refresh rate, and easy connectivity with an HDMI port and included HDMI cable. It also features AMD FreeSync technology, making it an affording option for gamers as well.
Samsung 390C Series 24-inch curved monitor — $120, was $190 Samsung Samsung is one of the premier names in screens and displays, and it’s put together an affordable yet capable monitor option with this 24-inch curved monitor. It has Full HD resolution and a 60Hz refresh rate, and the curved screen gives it a 178-degree viewing angle. This monitor comes with both HDMI and VGA inputs for easy connectivity whether you plan to use it with a laptop or a desktop PC.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
Alienware AW3821 38-inch QHD+ curved gaming monitor — $900, was $1,000 Alienware If you’ve had your eye on the best gaming monitors but can’t find one in your price range, this Alienware curved gaming monitor is a nice alternative. It comes in at a massive 38 inches, so you’ll need to make sure you’ve got room for it on your desk. But if you do, you won’t regret dedicating it to this display. It has a resolution of 3840 x 1600 pixels and a refresh rate of 144Hz. NVIDIA G-SYNC technology is built into the monitor, and it has ultimate connectivity options with several HDMI 2.0 ports, USB-C, and USB 2.
Alienware AW3423DW 34-inch QD-OLED curved gaming monitor — $1,100, was $1,200 Alienware Alienware isn’t messing around with this gaming monitor, and anyone who finds it to be the right monitor for their gaming adventure won’t be either. It makes a great monitor for taking on any of the best PC games , as it comes in at QHD resolution and a 175Hz refresh rate. This is the world’s first QD-OLED gaming monitor, which features infinite contrast and HDR TrueBlack 400 for vivid colors and lifelike visuals.
Editors' Recommendations 75 best Amazon Black Friday deals on laptops, TVs, Apple, and more Best Chromebook Black Friday deals on HP, Lenovo, and more Best Lenovo laptop Black Friday deals: Chromebooks, gaming laptops, and more The best Lenovo gaming laptop Black Friday deals right now 11 Best Buy Black Friday laptop deals you can’t afford to miss today Deals Cheapest Prices Work From Home Computing Even if your router is only four or five years old, it might be time for an upgrade, given the recent advances in router tech, such as Wi-Fi 6, which has become much more prominent. The same also applies to mesh routers, which have more advanced technology that can handle multiple connected devices, such as smart lights, home security systems, phones, and so forth. Of course, you don't have to pay a lot of money to grab yourself a new router, and there are even some great Black Friday deals you can take advantage of that will save you a little bit of extra cash. We've collected some of our favorite deals on routers below, but be sure to check back regularly as we update with newer and better deals.
Best Router Black Friday Deals Routers are a great option if you don't have a large home or need to cover a lot of square footage, and putting them near you means that you get much better speeds and lower latency when connecting through Wi-Fi. Of course, that may not always be an option, so it's important to know what sort of capacity and speeds routers can do. Most routers will have an "AX" followed by a set of numbers that dictates the maximum speed it can reach, and the rule of thumb is generally that this maximum speed only applies when you're really close to the router, so the further out you go, the less speed you'll get. It's not perfect, but generally more powerful routers that can hit higher speeds will be able to connect at higher speeds further away, although its always best to check the actual real-world performance of a router before taking the plunge.
Computing Alienware is known for its high-end gaming laptops, which are not only powerful but are also quite pricey. Luckily, there are some great Black Friday deals on its laptops with both AMD and Intel CPUs, so you have a bit of a choice on what sort of setup you want to go with. While you're here, it is worth taking a look at the wider Alienware Black Friday deals and Dell Black Friday deals for even more options. We love Alienware, but consider browsing the similar Razer gaming laptop Black Friday deals.
Alienware Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals (AMD) AMD processors tend to be a little bit more power efficient and cheaper than Intel CPUs, and while that won't make a big difference with a gaming laptop, it's a nice little addition to have. Luckily, unlike other brands, Alienware doesn't shy away from combining AMD CPUs with high-end hardware like an RTX 4090, so if you'd like to go with and AMD CPU, you'll have a lot of choices to pick from.
Computing If you're planning to get a new gaming laptop or other gaming accessories, you should check out the Black Friday deals on Razer products. It's one of the most popular brands among gamers because of its high-performance and stylish devices, and for the shopping holiday, you can get them with huge discounts. You're going to have to hurry with your chosen purchases once you've decided what to buy though, because stocks for some of these bargains may already be running low. If you're not set on Razer, be sure to shop the rest of Black Friday laptop deals and Black Friday gaming laptop deals to compare prices.
Best Razer gaming laptop Black Friday deals Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
