Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Dell S2721QS Review: A simple, elegant 4K monitor By Niels Broekhuijsen Close $449.99 Excellent build quality 3-year advance exchange warranty Crisp 4K image Accurate colors Unimpressive connectivity Basic feature set No wide gamut for photo editors Dell’s 27-inch USB-C monitor is a great buy at about $400 — but what if you don’t care for USB-C, and want a sharper image? For that audience, Dell built the S2721QS, which offers a 4K IPS panel and simple connectivity at practically the same price. In fact, it’s currently discounted to just $360 , making it among the more budget-friendly 4K monitors on the market. But is it good enough to make it on our best monitors list ? Design Ports and controls Image Quality Gaming Performance Our Take Design Image used with permission by copyright holder The Dell S2721QS comes in a big, slim white box, and as you unpack it you’re, as usual, greeted with one of Dell’s excellent stands. This one features a slightly different design than the one found on the P- and U-series monitors , with the back of the foot rounded and the sides angled inward. It’s also in a lighter color, and the neck has a slimmer profile than before.
The best 4K gaming monitors of 2023: ultrawides, high refresh rates, and more The best 4K gaming laptops for 2023 Asus’ 4K, 32-inch mini-LED gaming monitor might hit the perfect sweet spot Height, tilt and rotate to portrait adjustments are appreciated by home office users as they enable healthy postures You lose out on the swivel feature on the stand, but that’s not a major loss at this price, and you do keep the great height adjustment, tilting, and rotating to portrait – the most important options. As the monitor is aimed at (home) office use, these adjustments are particularly appreciated, as they help you maintain a healthy posture.
The rest of the display’s design is unremarkable. Bland, but not bad. The back of the monitor is made of durable white plastic, which makes the monitor look like a huge piece of chiclet chewing gum. It looks professional, offers slim bezels on the top and sides of the display, and will fit right in most homes and offices.
If it’s something more stylish you’re after, though, you’ll have to look at Dell’s Ultrathin S2719DC instead.
Ports and controls Of course, at this price point, concessions have to be made, and that’s in extra features. The Dell S2721QS is a monitor and a little more. It has two HDMI inputs and one DisplayPort connector – you won’t find USB-C connectivity here, nor will you find a built-in USB hub or other luxuries. The only extra is the inclusion of built-in speakers. They’re unimpressive and sound tinny, but they produce a sound loud enough to be heard, so that’s a win.
The OSD in the Dell S2721QS comes with a respectable number of options for a monitor of this kind, but a few are missing. The OSD is unusually pixelated for a 4K monitor. It comes with brightness and contrast controls, PiP (picture-in-picture) settings, RGB color adjustments, sharpness, response time adjustments, and more. What’s lacking? We found that there was no option to adjust the white point temperature, which errs a little to the cold side by default. That adjustment is common even among monitors at this price point.
With the buttons placed at the bottom, the OSD is always within reach, though in practice you’ll rarely need to venture into it, if ever.
Image Quality Since Dell’s S2721QS doesn’t score a ton of points in features, lets see how it fares in image quality.
With a 4K (3840 x 2160 pixels) IPS panel, it boasts an incredibly sharp image, especially considering it serves you this resolution at a diagonal size of only 27 inches. You’ll need to heavily lean on Windows display scaling, which doesn’t work all too well, but that isn’t the monitor’s fault (MacOS image scaling does work better).
4K videos, images, and general use look extremely crisp, but older programs may look small or blurry. Still, you’ll only find a sharper image on Apple’s 27-inch iMac 5K , or on a 24-inch 4K monitor.
Dell’s figures specify brightness of 350 nits and a static contrast ratio of 1300:1. Our testing showed the monitor is capable of exceeding these brightness figures, hitting almost 400 nits, but is a bit of a let down in contrast, at 790:1. It did improve to 940:1 after calibration.
Because Dell’s S2721QS offers a 4K resolution on a 27-inch panel, the image is extremely sharp Dell quotes 99% coverage of the sRGB space, which is what you should expect most midrange monitors to do. Our testing confirmed this number, and we also measured 76% AdobeRGB coverage, and 82% of the DCI-P3 space. If you’re just using this monitor to browse the web and deal with basic office tasks, it’ll work fine.
You’ll have to look for a wide gamut monitor such as the Acer ConceptD CM2 if you need something to handle color grading in photography and video editing, or you’ll risk color clipping — a phenomenon where the colors might appear correct to you when they’re at the end of your monitor’s gamut, but end up looking more intense on someone else’s display, or in print.
Gaming Performance Why is there a segment here on gaming performance? This isn’t sold as a gaming monitor. However, Dell has equipped the S2721QS with Adaptive-Sync tech based on AMD’s Freesync, and in our testing, we also confirmed G-Sync support on Nvidia cards.
With the 60Hz refresh rate, you won’t be among the most competitive gamers in the online battlefields, but adaptive-sync will take care of all the tearing and some of the stuttering. Of course, the 4K resolution will mean you need a serious amount of GPU grunt to get even close to the 60Hz refresh rate, but because of adaptive sync, framerates between 30 and 60 frames per second should still appear smooth thanks to even frame pacing. In other words, you’ll have a clearer, more consistent experience than you would without FreeSync or G-Sync support.
Of course, for a more gaming-oriented monitor, you should look at 144Hz displays like the Razer Raptor 27.
 Note, however, that you’ll probably end up sacrificing resolution to hit a higher refresh rate, as most monitors about 60Hz offer 1440p or 1080p resolution. This Dell can make some sense for gamers who prefer extreme image quality over high framerates, as it delivers a crisp and attractive picture.
Our Take If you’re looking for a solid 4K monitor at a low price, chances are the Dell S2721QS is right up your alley. It’s not outstanding in any area aside from sharpness, but it’s more than adequate for everyday use, providing a clean and crisp image without major flaws that will distract you.
This monitor also has excellent build quality with a solid range of ergonomic options. Think of it as Dell’s entry-level option to a 4K monitor while retaining the quality and warranty of the excellent material, and you’re on the right track.
Are there any alternatives? Absolutely. If you don’t care for the elaborate stand or materials quality, LG has a 27-inch 4K IPS monitor with similar specs for significantly less.
LG also has the 27BL85U , which comes similarly specced with an equally impressive stand at roughly the same price, and this one does include USB-C. Alternatively, if you’re looking for something with this format and resolution, but with a wider color gamut for photo work, the Dell U2720Q might be better for you, albeit at a higher price.
How long will it last? The Dell S2721QS should last at least five years, three years of which Dell will cover with an advance-exchange warranty, meaning that in case of disaster, the company will ship you a new (refurb) monitor first and then let you return the old one after you’re set up.
Should I buy it? Yes. If you want a simple, no-frills 4K display, you can’t go wrong with the Dell S2721QS.
Editors' Recommendations Ditch your 4K monitor for one of the best 5K displays you can buy The best GPUs for 4K to make your games look awesome The best 4K laptops for 2023 LG’s latest 4K monitor wants to be your smart home hub The best gaming monitors under $1,000: curved, ultrawide, 4K, and more Dell Monitor Reviews Product Reviews Windows Reviews Computing Finding a good 4K gaming monitor is getting easier all the time, with a range of high refresh rate options now available. Some even have refresh rates going up to 240Hz. But if you are looking for something that delivers the best visual performance for your PC as well as the latest consoles, the Xbox Series X and Sony PlayStation 5, then you need a monitor that can deliver 4K resolution at 120Hz. This can be tricky as there aren't a lot of monitors that support HDMI 2.1, which has the right bandwidth to deliver a smooth, high-resolution gaming experience.
Here are five of the best 4K 120Hz gaming monitors that you should be buying in 2022.
Computing Lenovo has just announced an avalanche of new monitors, and the range includes a really interesting model -- the Legion Y32p-30, a 4K gaming monitor with a 144Hz refresh rate. Made for gamers, this display will aim to combine stunning 4K visuals with a refresh rate suited for MOBAs and other fast-paced titles.
Alongside the beastly Legion, Lenovo is also introducing a range of commercial monitors, including various ThinkVision offerings that might be appreciated by remote and hybrid workers. Here's what we know about these new monitors.
Computing Dell has unveiled two new 4K monitors that use the latest IPS Black technology courtesy of LG Display. The 27-inch U2723QE and 32-inch U3223QE models are both 4K UltraSharp displays that, according to Dell, deliver 35 percent deeper blacks than IPS displays currently on the market.
These are the first monitors to use this display technology so far, and we don't know a ton about it just yet. Mini-LED or OLED monitors currently dominate the market when it comes to improved contrast and black levels, as seen in expensive options like the LG UltraFine Pro OLED or the ROG Swift PG32UQ mini-LED monitor. IPS Black is not necessarily an alternative to those, but could improve the image quality of traditional LED panels, which are much cheaper to produce.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
