Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Guides What is FreeSync? Here’s everything you need to know By Jon Martindale Close Tearing occurs when your monitor won’t refresh as quickly as the game’s frame rate. For players who deal with this issue regularly, it can quickly ruin the gameplay experience.
There is a way to sync your refresh rate to your GPU rendering, but you’ll need to use FreeSync to do it. This program might be completely unknown to some, but using FreeSync shouldn’t be too complicated. Here’s how to do it.
What is AMD FreeSync? What do you need to use FreeSync? How to enable FreeSync What is FreeSync Premium? What about FreeSync Premium Pro? What is AMD FreeSync? Notice the misaligned elements of the left-hand frame? Although this screen tearing is simulated, it displays the effect screen tearing can have on a game.
AMD FreeSync allows AMD’s graphics cards and APUs to control the refresh rate of a connected monitor. Most monitors default to 60 refreshes per second (60Hz), but you’ll also see monitors that refresh 75, 120, 144, or even 240 times per second.
Overall, timing is essentially the big screen-tearing issue. The GPU may render frames faster than the display can update the screen, causing the latter to compile “strips” of different frames. The “ripping” artifacts typically surface when the view moves horizontally. Likewise, if the GPU can’t output at the display’s refresh rate, you’ll experience a “stuttering” effect.
What is NVMe? Everything you need to know about high-speed storage What is Display Stream Compression? Everything you need to know about DSC AMD FSR (FidelityFX Super Resolution): everything you need to know With FreeSync enabled, the monitor dynamically refreshes the screen in sync with the current game’s frame rate. If it’s a 60Hz display, then it only supports 60 frames per second. If the GPU’s output drops, the display’s refresh rate drops accordingly.
If you’re playing a relatively simple PC game like the original Half-Life , you probably don’t even need FreeSync. High refresh rates go a long way in eliminating screen tearing, so adaptive sync technologies are largely unneeded if your GPU consistently outputs high frame rates.
But if you’re playing a newer, graphically intensive game like Assassin’s Creed: Odyssey at 4K , even a powerful gaming desktop might only render 40 or 50 frames per second on average, falling below the monitor’s refresh rate. With AMD FreeSync, the monitor’s refresh rate scales up or down to match the frame rate, so the monitor never refreshes in the middle of a frame, and tearing never materializes.
Note : What if you don’t have an AMD GPU? Then FreeSync probably won’t be compatible with your build. Nvidia also has its corresponding syncing technology called G-Sync , which is designed to work with its GPUs and is the primary alternative at this time (a bit more on this below).
What do you need to use FreeSync? Asus’ MG279Q, our favorite FreeSync gaming display.
Image used with permission by copyright holder For FreeSync to work, you need a compatible AMD graphics card or an integrated APU, like AMD’s recent Ryzen-branded all-in-one chips. Most modern Radeon cards — from budget offerings up to the super-powerful Radeon VII — support FreeSync. If you’re unsure, check the specifications.
You also need a compatible monitor or TV that supports VESA’s Adaptive-Sync. AMD began supporting this technology as FreeSync via its software suite in 2015. It essentially builds a two-way communication between the Radeon GPU and off-the-shelf scaler boards installed in certified Adaptive-Sync displays. These boards do all the processing, rendering, backlight control, and more.
The DisplayPort 1.2a spec added support for variable refresh rates in 2014, followed by HDMI 2.1 in 2017.
But manufacturers don’t simply slap on AMD’s “FreeSync” branding and move on.
According to AMD , these panels endure a “rigorous certification process to ensure a tear-free, low latency experience.” Nvidia does the same thing with its G-Sync certification program.
Typically, FreeSync monitors are cheaper than their G-Sync counterparts. That’s because G-Sync monitors rely on a proprietary module, ditching the off-the-shelf scaler. This module controls everything from the refresh rate to the backlighting. However, Nvidia is currently building a list of FreeSync-class monitors that are now compatible with its G-Sync technology on the PC side.
Despite their lower price, FreeSync monitors provide a broad spectrum of other features to enhance your games, like 4K resolutions, high refresh rates, and HDR.
Our favorite gaming displays have many of these technologies, though not all of them are FreeSync compatible.
AMD has a list of FreeSync monitors on its FreeSync site.
How to enable FreeSync Image used with permission by copyright holder After connecting your computer to a FreeSync-enabled monitor, make sure to download the latest AMD Catalyst drivers from the company’s website.
 You can manually select your card or APU model with the Manually Select Your Driver tool — just make sure to match your version of Windows. You can also use the auto-detection tool if you’re not sure.
Remember, you don’t need a second driver to enable FreeSync. If you have compatible hardware, it’s included in this download. Install the driver and restart your computer if necessary.
When you’re ready, open the AMD Radeon Settings by right-clicking on your desktop and selecting it from the pop-up menu. Next, select Display from the top menu and toggle on the Radeon FreeSync setting. Depending on your display, you may also need to turn it on in your monitor settings.
Periodic firmware updates are required to keep your GPU and FreeSync operating correctly, so make sure you manage your drivers well and update them as necessary.
Note: Some FreeSync displays only work within a pre-defined frame rate range, so depending on the game, you may need to limit your frame rate to stay within that threshold. If there is a pre-defined range, AMD should indicate it in the FreeSync panel, where you can always check to make sure.
What is FreeSync Premium? Image used with permission by copyright holder FreeSync, the original service, helps with tearing, flickering, and latency issues. However, there are also more advanced versions of FreeSync technology, and one of them is FreeSync Premium. Devices and content must be certified for FreeSync Premium to offer extra features. With this certification — and a compatible GPU — the Premium version adds important benefits: Expanded latency prevention for SDR (Standard Dynamic Range).
Keeping the refresh rate at 120Hz or higher at the FHD (full HD) resolution.
Offering LFC, or Low Framerate Compensation, to help stabilize the frame rate when the display is struggling.
These extra features can be useful to gamers concerned about the quality of their gaming, but they aren’t necessary to receive the original benefits of FreeSync.
What about FreeSync Premium Pro? AMD also offers an expanded certification for FreeSync Premium Pro (previously known as FreeSync 2 HDR but wisely changed to a standardized naming format), which adds even more optimization features for your display. Again, specific certification is required for this setting, but it provides — in addition to the benefits of FreeSync and FreeSync Premium — extras like: Low latency support for HDR as well as SDR.
Support for HDR optimization on supported displays: The panels must test to 400 nits of brightness for HDR 400 certification.
These HDR benefits are a nice benefit for gamers (and you can check Premium Pro supported games here , like Borderlands 3 and Far Cry 6 ) but aren’t useful for optimizing titles like movies or TV, where it’s best to stick with straightforward HDR support.
Editors' Recommendations Is there a Surfshark free trial? What you need to know AMD FSR 3: everything you need to know about Fluid Motion Frames What is VSync, and why do you need it? What is a CPU? Here’s everything you need to know Thunderbolt 4: everything you need to know Gaming Computing Twitter is now called X, and it's causing some commotion. Since launching 17 years ago (nearly to the date at the time of writing), Twitter has been adorned with a blue bird. Now, it's a rather cryptic X brought on by the new owner of the social media platform, Elon Musk. Even though elements of the old Twitter remain, the iOS and Android apps have switched over to the new name, including the transition from "tweets" to "posts." How did we get here? We've rounded up the order of events that took place leading to Twitter's massive rebrand to X, as well as how that relates to Elon Musk's entrepreneurial history and the legal troubles that could stem from the new name.
Why is Twitter called X now? Computing You can charge your laptop with USB-C and many laptops are built with it as their only option for charging. You'll need a high-wattage charger to power it up in a reasonable time, but thanks to the latest generations of USB Power Delivery technology, you can absolutely charge your laptop with a USB-C connection.
You don't even need one of the best laptops to charge using USB-C. Most modern laptops have the option. That's great, too, because USB-C is reversible, handles data and charging simultaneously, and can even let you output to a display while charging your laptop from the same USB-C cable. Here's how to do it.
How to charge your laptop with USB-C Computing Random-access memory, or RAM, is an essential component in everything from desktop computers to smartphones. RAM is a high-speed, short-term storage solution that gives applications, games, and the operating system itself, quick access to important information. That saves it the time of retrieving the data from much slower storage, like hard drives and SSDs.
Like other components in your devices, though, there are many different types of RAM. RAM speed can be affected by its type, the model, or its generation, and its price can vary wildly depending on the capacity you're buying, and what device it's going into.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
