Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Acer Predator Orion 7000 review: A great gaming PC that’s too expensive By Jacob Roach Close $3,000.00 Runs cool and quiet Bright, vibrant RGB lighting Excellent 4K gaming performance Great connectivity options Hot-swappable SSD bay Expensive Upgrades could be frustrating Loads of bloatware Acer’s Predator Orion 7000 was one of the first Intel Alder Lake desktops announced last year, but it arrives at a time when most gaming desktops have already updated to Intel’s latest generation. We have the lay of the land, but the Predator Orion 7000 still manages to stand out among major PC vendors — despite its obscenely high price tag.
Design Specs and pricing Internals and upgradability Performance Gaming performance Software Our take Most 12th-gen desktops I’ve looked at struggle with thermals and noise, as Intel’s latest chips push power requirements even higher. The Predator Orion 7000 doesn’t struggle with those issues, but its price puts it in a class of premium boutique PCs where the Orion 7000 struggles to keep pace.
Acer’s new gaming laptop bring Nvidia RTX 40-series GPUs under $1,000 How Intel could use AI to tackle a massive issue in PC gaming The best PC builds: budget, gaming, video editing, and more Design Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Acer makes a big deal about its FrostBlade fans and the cooling design of the Predator Orion 7000, and for good reason — it works. In a market where form rarely meets function (read our Asus ProArt PD5 review for an example of form over function), the Predator Orion 7000 shockingly manages both.
For looks, the Predator Orion 7000 takes no prisoners. Two bright ARGB fans occupy the extended front panel, the GPU is mounted vertically to show off the cooler design, and the case is adorned with transparent panels on the front and side so you can see every element of your PC. This is an in-your-face PC.
Noise isn’t an issue on the Predator Orion 7000.
Thankfully, it stays cool, too. Even the toasty Core i7-12700K stayed around 70 degrees Celsius in a Cinebench run under a 120mm all-in-one liquid cooler.
 And in a 4K run of Cyberpunk 2077, the GPU never went above 80 degrees. The front panel is doing a lot of work here, offering a large amount of airflow into the front of the case to keep things cool. There’s a vent right by the GPU, too, so the vertical mount doesn’t choke off airflow as it does in the Asus GA35DX.
Noise isn’t an issue, either. I don’t suspect the airflow channels Acer has carved out for the intake fans and GPU are doing much, but whatever is going on, it keeps the Predator Orion 7000 quiet. At most, it has a low, barely audible hum. That was true even in my most intense gaming tests, which speaks to the design of the Predator Orion 7000.
The machine looks great, and it stays cool and quiet. You rarely find both of those together. There’s plenty of gamer flair, too, with customizable RGBs on the CPU cooler, intake fans, and exhaust fan through Acer’s included software.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Beyond the looks, the Predator Orion 7000 includes a hot-swappable 2.5-inch hard drive bay that you can populate with any SSD. It’s infuriating getting the microscopic screws out to actually install an SSD — it doesn’t come with one included — but I still love the option to swap a drive in without worrying about hooking up more cables.
Specs and pricing CPU Intel Core i7-12700K GPU RTX 3080 Motherboard Acer-branded Z690 motherboard Case Predator Orion 7000 tower Memory 32GB DDR5-4000 Storage 2TB mechanical hard drive, 1TB PCIe SSD Power supply 800W unbranded power supply USB ports 2x USB 2,0, 6x USB 3.2, 2x USB-C Networking 2.5G Ethernet, Wi-Fi 6E Acer offers two models of the Predator Orion 7000, which makes the spec and pricing discussion much easier. The model I reviewed clocks in at $3,000 for a Core i7-12700K processor, 10GB RTX 3080 graphics card, 32GB of DDR5 memory, and 3TB of storage split across an SSD and HDD (1TB and 2TB, respectively).
There’s no easy way to slice this; the Predator Orion 7000 is too expensive.
The Predator Orion 7000 isn’t aligned with where GPU prices are right now. The MSI Aegis RS 12 , for example, is around $200 cheaper when paired with the more powerful RTX 3080 Ti and identical specs. Acer doesn’t include the 12GB RTX 3080 , either, which would go a long way in justifying the price of the Predator Orion 7000.
Above that configuration, you have a $4,500 model that jumps up to a Core i9-12900K and RTX 3090 (with identical specs otherwise). That’s $300 more expensive than the Origin Neuron with identical specs, and Origin allows you to customize your build however you want.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends The inclusion of DDR5, which competing machines like the HP Omen 45L lack, helps Acer justify the price of the Predator Orion 7000 a bit. But there’s no other way to slice this; the Predator Orion 7000 is too expensive, especially considering machines from boutique builders can cost less with identical specs.
Where the Predator Orion 7000 mainly justifies its price is the case. It’s cool and quiet, as I covered in the first section, and comes with excellent connectivity. 2.5G Ethernet and Wi-Fi 6E lead with the latest networking options, and the case includes two USB-C ports — one on the top and one on the back.
Internals and upgradability Jacob Roach / Digital Trends There’s nothing holding you back from upgrading the Predator Orion 7000, technically. It uses all standard-sized components, and it includes empty hard drive slots if you need them. There are a lot of other factors making upgrades difficult, however.
The GPU is a good example. The airflow channel limits the size of the GPU you can use (though, you can mount the GPU horizontally by flipping the back plate). Similarly, there are empty SSD slots in the back, but Acer doesn’t included extra SATA cables. Thankfully, the HDD bay includes connections so you can easily swap in a mechanical hard drive.
Performing upgrades isn’t great either due to the haphazard cable management. It’s a similar level of cable management as the Dell XPS Desktop 8950 — a PC that has a completely opaque side panel. Combined with the exposed chips on the RAM sticks and Wi-Fi module, the Predator Orion 7000 doesn’t look great if you stare at it for too long.
Performance Jacob Roach / Digital Trends For non-gaming performance, there’s nothing too surprising for the Predator Orion 7000. The Core i7-12700K holds up in CPU tests like Cinebench and GeekBench, reaffirming that Intel’s 12th-gen CPUs are among the best processors you can buy. The Ryzen 9 5900X still competes in multi-core performance, though it’s falling behind in single-core performance while we wait for Ryzen 7000.
Acer Predator Orion 7000 (Core i7-12700K) MSI Aegis RS 12 (Core i7-12700KF) Maingear Vybe (Ryzen 9 5900X) Cinebench R23 multi-core 20,110 20,445 20,802 Cinebench R23 single-core 1,934 1,890 1,597 Geekbench 5 multi-core 14,382 15,362 12,724 Geekbench 5 single-core 1,677 1,886 1,718 PugetBench for Premiere Pro 929 920 956 Blender Monster 2,382 N/A 2,630 Blender Junkshop 1,355 N/A 1,283 Blender Classroom 1,194 N/A 1,476 Processor performance is great, but the inclusion of DDR5 memory doesn’t do much for the Predator Orion 7000 in practice. There isn’t a gain in PugetBench for Premiere Pro where I’d expect it most, for example. Even with DDR4 in the Maingear Vybe , it managed to outperform the MSI Aegis RS 12 and Predator Orion 7000 (both equipped with DDR5).
Gaming performance Image used with permission by copyright holder You can see an overview of 4K gaming performance on the Predator Orion 7000 above (click the image to see a large version). Although the RTX 3080 may struggle in the most demanding games at 4K, it still reaches above 60 fps in most titles. And if you want even more performance, you can opt for the RTX 3090 configuration that will push your 4K frame rates even further.
The graphics card is one part of the equation, but the Core i7-12700K is doing a lot of work, too. As you can read in our Core i9-12900K review , Intel’s 12th-gen architecture is excellent for gaming. These processors run hot, but I never had any issues with thermal throttling or fan noise with the i7 while I was playing games.
I would’ve liked to see an option with AMD’s latest Ryzen 7 5800X3D, though. As you can read our Ryzen 7 5800X3D review , it’s the best processor for gaming right now. The Falcon Northwest Tiki includes this processor, so although the RTX 3080 Ti on that machine is offering some additional performance, AMD’s gaming-focused processor is, as well.
Image used with permission by copyright holder That advantage is even clearer in synthetic benchmarks, where the Ryzen 7 5800X3D and more powerful GPU push ahead by 4% and 26% in 3DMark Time Spy and Fire Strike, respectively. You can configure the Falcon Northwest Tiki with a Ryzen 7 5800X3D for around the same price, too, and Falcon Northwest is one of the most expensive PC vendors around.
Although the Predator Orion 7000 is a monster of a gaming PC, it’s important to keep the price in mind. You can purchase similar machines for less, and you only have to spend a little more to get something as premium as a machine from Falcon Northwest.
Software Bloatware reigns supreme on the Acer Predator Orion 7000. Norton is by the far the most annoying, popping up with pleas to run a scan or renew the subscription several times while I was testing the machine. Acer bundles in several other pieces of adware, too, including Dropbox and ExpressVPN.
Outside of the bloat, Acer includes PredatorSense and PredatorArc, both of which are utilities focused on the gaming side of the PC. PredatorArc is specifically for Acer peripherals, though, so its inclusion is a bit strange. PredatorSense opens up lighting and basic CPU overclocking options, but it’s far from an in-depth utility.
Our take The Acer Predator Orion 7000 is a fantastic gaming PC that’s only soured by its high price. It costs about as much as custom builds from Maingear and Origin without offering the same level of customization. It’s a better option than most of the gaming desktops you’ll find in your local Best Buy due to its low noise and excellent thermals. But you’ll find a better value with a custom-built PC if you take the time to configure one.
Are there any alternatives? Yes, several: HP Omen 45L : Cheaper than the Predator Orion 7000 and equipped with Intel 12th-gen processors, but it doesn’t support DDR5.
MSI Aegis RS 12 : Much cheaper than the Predator Orion 7000, but the case isn’t great, and the machine is prone to noise and heat issues.
How long will it last? The Predator Orion 7000 is powerful enough to last you several years, so you won’t have to worry about upgrading for quite some time. In the future, you can upgrade the components because the Predator Orion 7000 uses all standard-sized parts.
Should you buy it? Yes, but only if you can’t be bothered to configure a PC with a system integrator. You’ll get a much better desktop with Maingear, Falcon Northwest, or Origin, and you might even save some money depending on your configuration.
Editors' Recommendations I fell in love with this adorable mini gaming PC This Noctua-themed gaming PC is a bespoke beauty — and you can buy it How we test PC components and hardware Star Wars Jedi: Survivor is being review-bombed on Steam as a ‘total crap’ PC port Acer’s new Predator Orion X is an RTX 4090 desktop I might actually buy Acer Desktop Reviews Intel PC PC Gaming Product Reviews Windows Reviews Computing It's tough to find the right gaming CPU for your next PC. We've benchmarked dozens of processors to find the best CPU for gaming, and there's a clear winner right now: AMD's Ryzen 7 7800X3D. Although the latest chip from Team Red claims the crown, there are still several other great options on the market.
Whatever your needs and budgets, though, we have options from AMD and Intel that will be great performers. We're focused on gaming here, but if you want a processor that can game and get work done, make sure to check out our list of the best processors.
Computing DirectX 12 is the latest graphics API that powers Windows 11, but many of the best PC games still either run on DirectX 11 or include an option to switch. Which should you choose? Although most updates to DirectX are iterative, DirectX 12 represents a massive shift for the API Microsoft has been developing for several decades. It can massively improve performance in your games, and it has a few unique features that DirectX 11 doesn't have access to.
Graphics APIs aren't equal Computing DirectX is the secret sauce that allows most of the best PC games to run. It solves a problem for developers by offering a standardized solution to communicate instructions to your graphics card, and it's a cornerstone of the best graphics cards you can buy right now.
We'll run you through what DirectX is, why DirectX 12 Ultimate is important, and how you can find what DirectX version is installed on your PC.
What is DirectX? Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
