Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Corsair Sabre RGB Pro Wireless review: Competitive mouse, competitive price By Jacob Roach Close $110.00 2,000Hz polling rate Flexible iCue software Comfortable palm grip design Only 79 grams Two wireless modes Limited additional buttons Only one RGB zone In the world of esports mice , it’s usually hard to get excited about another bare-bones mouse — especially when it’s an update to an existing model. That’s what the Corsair Sabre RGB Pro Wireless is. It’s nearly identical to the $60 Sabre RGB Pro, just without a wire and at nearly twice the price.
Design Sensor and buttons Connectivity and battery life Software Our take Still, it’s cheaper than the competition and comes with specs to get excited about.
Corsair K70 RGB TKL is an excellent gaming keyboard, if only it came out in 2016 Have big hands? The Corsair Night Sword RGB is the gaming mouse for you You can pick up a great wireless gaming mice like the Logitech G305 for less than half the price, yes. But with an updated sensor, two wireless modes, and software that goes beyond RGB lighting , the Corsair Sabre RGB Pro Wireless is an excellent gaming mouse that undercuts the competition.
Design Image used with permission by copyright holder The Sabre Pro Wireless comes from Corsair’s Champion Series , which is a range of products designed in collaboration with esports athletes for optimal performance. In terms of dimensions, its identical to the Sabre Pro that’s available, just with the wire snipped. The Wireless model is just a hair heavier, though — 79 grams compared to 74.
It’s not ambidextrous like the Logitech G Pro , which is the direct competitor to the Sabre Pro Wireless. Instead, the top shell is offset toward the left for a right-handed design, jutting out about 10mm more on the front. A tall middle gives you plenty to hang onto in terms of palm grip. Claw grip works, too, though I prefer something smaller like the Razer Viper Ultimate because I don’t have the biggest hands.
The Sabre Pro Wireless doesn’t need looks considering its price.
Based on looks, the Sabre Pro Wireless won’t win any awards. It’s a black mouse with a RGB Corsair logo on the back (which you can customize through iCue). It’s even more understated than the wired Sabre Pro. The Wireless model lacks lighting around the scroll wheel and nixes the DPI scale on the side of the mouse.
Still, the Sabre Pro Wireless doesn’t need looks considering its price. It’s $20 cheaper than the Logitech Pro, and $50 cheaper than the Razer Viper Ultimate. There are cheaper wireless mice like the Steelseries Rival 3 , but nothing with specs to match the Sabre Pro Wireless.
Sensor and buttons The Sabre Pro Wireless has Corsair’s Marksman 26K DPI sensor, which you can adjust in 1-DPI steps in iCue. Corsair says the mouse has a tracking resolution of 650 IPS, and you can set up to a 2,000Hz polling rate. That rate works out to 0.5ms of response time in wired mode, and Corsair claims “sub-1ms wireless transmission” with its Slipstream technology.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Compared to the wired Sabre Pro, the polling rate seems like a downgrade. The wired model supports up to an 8000Hz polling rate. Each step above 1,000Hz subdivides a millisecond, however, so the higher you go, the less return you’ll get. And 2,000Hz is fast enough, so this spec is less of a downgrade than it may seem like.
No one should reasonably use a mouse at 26K DPI, but the Sabre Pro Wireless allows you to. Wireless gaming mice like the Razer Orochi V2 top out at 18K DPI. For higher, you need to turn to flagship options from Logitech, with its 25K Hero sensor, such as the Logitech Pro X Superlight.
I used the Sabre Pro Wireless as my only mouse for about a week — and I’m still using it. As someone who puts at least a few hours into Destiny 2 each night, the Sabre Pro Wireless was able to keep up. I swapped over to my Razer Viper Ultimate and older Corsair M65 without any perceivable difference outside of shape.
Corsair says the Sabre Pro Wireless has seven programmable buttons, though I only counted six (and six only show up in iCue). In addition to left, right, and middle mouse clicks, you have a DPI adjustment button in the middle, as well as forward and back thumb buttons on the left side. You can remap any of the keys in iCue, as well as assign macros or functions to them.
No one should reasonably using a mouse at 26K DPI, but the Sabre Pro Wireless allows you to.
The left- and right click-buttons use Omron switches, which are rated for 50 million clicks. They’re Corsair’s Quickstrike buttons, too, meaning there isn’t a gap between the switch and the button. Frankly, I can’t tell a difference between it and other high-end gaming mice, so this seems mostly like marketing fluff. Omron switches are nice to have, however, and expected for a mouse in this class.
Connectivity and battery life According to Corsair’s pricing, wireless is worth about an extra $50 on the Sabre Pro Wireless. And it is. The Slipstream wireless technology held up perfectly in a twitchy shooter like Call of Duty: Black Ops Cold War, as well as a slower action game like Resident Evil Village.
Switching between wired and wireless, I couldn’t ever tell the difference.
Slipstream isn’t all you have access to, though. The Sabre Pro Wireless also works with Bluetooth 4.2 , and you can swap between the two via a switch on the button of the mouse. As someone who likes to use PC peripherals on my Nvidia Shield, the Sabre Pro makes a perfect pairing with the Bluetooth-capable Logitech G915 TKL keyboard.
Corsair says the Sabre Pro can last for up to 90 hours on a charge, which is a lot longer than it sounds. I started using the Sabre Pro right away without charging. Even then, the mouse lasted a full week before it needed a charge, and it warned me that the battery was low via a small red LED on top before it died.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The battery life is 90 hours in Bluetooth mode without lighting. If you want to use Slipstream, that falls to 60 hours. Still, I never had an issue with battery life, even when using Slipstream with the lighting turned on. The mouse goes into sleep mode after 15 minutes by default, saving you some juice while you’re away.
Once the battery is out, you can plug in the included USB-C cable for charging while still using the mouse. This is something I’ve gotten accustomed to on my Razer Viper Ultimate, so I’m glad Corsair included a wired mode as well. The charging port is slightly recessed to deal with cable bulk, though I wish Corsair had pushed it back a little further. The included cable juts out about half an inch in wired mode.
Software Bundled software is usually an afterthought, but iCue , on the other hand, is a reason to pick up the Sabre Pro Wireless. Corsair has continued to expand this software, and now, it’s better than ever. Lighting is, at least for the Sabre Pro Wireless, the least interesting part of the software.
As mentioned, you can rebind any of the six buttons. In addition to keystrokes, mouse functions, and special language keys, you can also use macros. I used the built-in macro recorder to put down a 591-step macro, and it worked. The recorder even tracks delays, allowing you to execute complex input strings with the touch of a button.
Image used with permission by copyright holder There are a huge number of possibilities in iCue. Switching between languages on your keyboard, launching apps with a button, and programming complex macros are all possible — and they’re also easy to set up in iCue.
You can segment the DPI into five profiles in iCue, which are stored on the mouse. Once you set them, you can use the mouse across machines without iCue installed. Along with DPI settings, you can organize lighting and button mappings into three onboard profiles that travel with the mouse.
There’s a lot going on in the settings, too. You can turn off the DPI adjustment, which is useful to avoid any mishaps while gaming, and you can customize the time after the mouse goes to sleep. Typical of iCue, you can also calibrate the sensor to your surface and pair the mouse again in case it gets disconnected. Out of the box, the mouse worked right away for me, even without iCue installed.
Corsair has gone deep instead of wide with iCue. Logitech’s G-Hub is useful, though not nearly as deep as iCue, and Razer has several apps that are focused on overall PC performance, not peripheral customization. Simply put, iCue is packed with functionality for peripherals while maintaining accessibility.
Our take The Corsair Sabre RGB Pro Wireless is not for everyone. You can save a lot of money with mice like the Rival 3, which have lower specs but still hold up for the average gamer.
However, if you’re a serious esports gamer, you’ll adore the Corsair Sabre RGB Pro Wireless. With a crazy-high DPI sensor, long battery life, and a price that puts other top peripheral brands in their place, it’s an easy mouse to recommend for competitive gamers.
Are there any alternatives? Yes. The Razer Viper Ultimate and Logitech Pro are both excellent ambidextrous mice , but they’re a little more expensive.
The Steelseries Rival 3 is a much cheaper alternative, though it doesn’t have as nice of a sensor.
How long will it last? The Omron switches on the Corsair Sabre Pro Wireless are rated for 50 million clicks. If you clicked your mouse 10,000 a day — which is unlikely — they’d last for just under 14 years. Realistically, you’ll be able to use the Sabre Pro Wireless for over 15 years.
Should you buy it? Yes, if you’re in the market for a high-quality wireless mouse that’s all about the basics. It depends on the types of games you play, though. Something like the Razer Naga is better for MMOs with its extra buttons, while the Corsair M65 has a stumpy design that’s easier to manage in shooters.
Editors' Recommendations GeForce Now brings native resolution PC gaming to the MacBook Pro Corsair’s K65 RGB Mini revitalizes mainstream 60% keyboard goodness The Corsair M55 RGB Pro Ambidextrous is lightweight and fast, but too sensitive Desktop Reviews PC Gaming Product Reviews Computing Lenovo is probably one of the best-known laptop makers, especially since they have an incredibly wide variety of them to choose from. That also means they have an excellent selection of gaming laptops, so you can hone in on something that fits your budget. That's especially the case with the ongoing early Black Friday deals that are seeing laptops being cut down in price across the board. That said, Lenovo's selection of gaming laptops is too wide for us to include all their active deals here, so we've selected some of our favorites for both AMD and Intel CPUs. Also, if you're not sure of where to start, you should check out our list of best Lenovo laptops for some good options.
Best Lenovo Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals (AMD) Lenovo has a wider selection of AMD gaming laptops, which is great if you want to go with something AMD-powered. Unfortunately, there aren't any good deals on Lenovo laptops with both an AMD CPU and GPU, but the selection below is wide enough to pick something that fits your needs a bit better. And, if you want something with an RTX 4090 on a budget, then the AMD version is probably the cheapest for Lenovo.
Computing Printers are complicated machines featuring a mix of plastics, metals, electronics, and components, some of which are potentially flagged as hazardous waste. In 2023, it's more important than ever to be kind to the planet, and there are several environmentally safe ways to dispose of a printer.
Even the best printers in the world can reach the end of their life after several years if ink or toner is no longer available. A well-loved printer can suffer from accumulated wear and tear or damage from a catastrophic power surge that's too expensive to repair.
Computing It's Black Friday, which means it is time to give expensive tech products and fun, but expensive, toys a second look. The right Black Friday deals are there to take these categories of products down in price. Where these categories of expensive tech and cool toys collide is the Meta Quest 2, a VR headset, and sure enough, it has a good sale going on over at Amazon right now. Normally $300, its price has dropped by $51 down to just $249, one of the best VR headset Black Friday deals we've seen. The really good news? This deal is here now, so you don't have to wait to buy it like you will with the rest of your post Thanksgiving shopping. In fact, if you tap the button below and buy now, and with a little shipping luck, you might have it by Thanksgiving to play with your family.
Why you should buy the Meta Quest 2 The Meta Quest 2, which dominated Steam last year, is a VR headset that gives a full 360 field of view, allows you to experience 3D positional audio, and has over 500 compatible titles between gaming, fitness, and other experiences. If you're a Twitch viewer, you may recognize it from streamers playing Meta Quest 2 games like Beat Saber or the somewhat ironically humorous Among Us VR. It refreshes at 120Hz and gives each eye a view of 1832 x 1920p.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
