Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? EK 275 Conquest review: Custom watercooling for cheap By Jacob Roach Close $4,800.00 Beautiful design and tasteful branding Clear filling instructions Blazing-fast gaming performance Clean cable management Cool and quiet Excellent support Poor ray tracing performance Limited customization options Upgrades can be a hassle Custom watercooling is the final frontier for PC enthusiasts, and EK wants to make it available to the masses. The EK Fluid Gaming 275 Conquest is a custom watercooled PC built with the best watercooling components you can buy, and its unbelievably low price helps it rank among the best gaming desktops.
Design Specs and pricing Servicing Upgradability Processor performance Gaming performance Software Our take Although the all-AMD Conquest isn’t cheap, it’s still as much as $1,500 less than the competition. Even better, it comes with the backing of EK’s massive catalog of watercooling products, allowing you to dip your toes into the world of custom watercooling before you fully dive in.
Newegg wants you to trust ChatGPT for product reviews Why Drop’s new custom mechanical keyboard is such a big deal A YouTuber built a custom PC cooled solely by Jägermeister Design Jacob Roach / Digital Trends The 275 Conquest is a beautiful PC. The Lian Li PC-011 Dynamic it’s built inside is the best PC case you can buy, showing off the clean hardline tubing running throughout the machine. The 275 Conquest also has a distribution plate specifically designed for the case, which is washed in a sea of RGB.
EK also uses custom power supply cables for your 24-pin, 8-pin PCIe, and 8-pin CPU connectors, and they’re trained so that none of the braided cables overlap each other. This is Falcon Northwest Talon- levels of build quality, just without the massive premium.
EK has a little branding, but it’s all tasteful. The Lian Li badge that normally lives in the PC-011 Dynamic is replaced by an EK badge instead, and EK’s logo is etched into the top of the distribution plate.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends One of the reasons the PC-011 Dynamic is a great PC case is that it offers a ton of room for cable management, and EK takes advantage of it. Even when you take off the back panel, there’s not a cable in sight. Everything is neatly tucked away, built with the attention to detail you’d have if you put together the PC yourself. That’s a lot more than machines like the MSI Aegis RS 12 can say.
The only complaint I can drum up is that the tubing runs to the GPU look like they’re at a slight angle. It’s so slight that you can’t notice it from most angles. I’m in awe of the EK 275 Conquest, not only because of the exceptional build quality but also because EK doesn’t charge a massive premium for it.
Specs and pricing Everything in the EK 275 Conquest is branded, much like the Origin Neuron.
 You know exactly what you get upfront, so you don’t have to worry about some custom motherboard or manufacturer-only memory causing problems with your system.
CPU AMD Ryzen 9 5900X GPU AMD Radeon RX 6900 XT Motherboard Asus Prime X570 Pro Case Lian Li PC-011 Dynamic Memory 32GB G.Skill Trident Z DDR4-3200 Storage 1TB Seagate FireCuda 510, 4TB Seagate Barracuda Power supply EVGA 850W 80 Plus Gold USB ports 9x USB-A (7x rear, 2x front), 2x USB-C (1x rear, 1x front) Networking 1Gbit Ethernet For specs, the 275 Conquest is just below EK’s top Conquest model, which comes with a Ryzen 9 5950X. You can scale down to a Ryzen 5 5600X and RX 6700 XT for $2,500. EK offers its Vanquish line for Nvidia fans, though these machines run a few hundred dollars more than their AMD counterparts.
The 275 Conquest is a great value.
You don’t have a lot of options for configuration, unfortunately. Memory and storage are the only two areas you can customize, and EK doesn’t offer any options with Intel processors. EK offers several configurations for AMD and Nvidia, though, so you shouldn’t have any problems finding a machine that works.
For pricing, the 275 Conquest is a great value. If you were to buy everything on your own, you’d spend around $4,000. The 275 Conquest costs $4,800, but $800 is a pretty reasonable premium, especially considering the $4,000 price I quoted doesn’t include things acrylic tube cutters, much less a three-year warranty that covers leaks.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends The value is even more clear when you bring in the competition. A similarly configured Maingear Vybe with a three-year warranty will run you $6,000, and it comes with a much worse case. That’s not to mention the pedigree EK has in the watercooling community, with a massive catalog of products to trick out, repair, and upgrade your build in the future. All things considered, $800 is a small price to pay.
Servicing Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Custom watercooling requires maintenance, but it’s a lot less tedious than you might think. EK ships the 275 Conquest without fluid in the loop. There are rogue splotches of water in the loop from when EK tested the machine before sending it out, but you’ll need to fill the loop yourself with the included fluid.
The included instructions are easy to follow, and EK even has a video showing the process on its YouTube channel. Squirting water into a PC always feels unnatural, but EK offers thorough instructions so that even beginners won’t feel lost. You can have the loop moving in about 15 minutes.
EK doesn’t offer any resources beyond the initial fill, though. The only documentation I could find on maintenance is an FAQ that recommends draining and refilling the loop annually.
This doesn’t seem like negligence, just oversight. The included doc has instructions for draining the loop, and EK includes an extra drain tube. Simply noting that you should refill the loop annually on the included instructions would go a long way, so I hope EK does that in the future.
Upgradability Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Upgradability is dicey on the 275 Conquest for two reasons: The custom loop makes upgrades tedious, and most major upgrades will void your warranty. The warranty bit is frustrating, but it makes sense; if you have to take apart the loop to make an upgrade, EK has no way of guaranteeing it’ll be put back together without leaks.
If you want to upgrade and still be covered, you can call EK for a quote. It will collect, upgrade, and return your PC to you. EK normally has products for the latest CPU and GPU launches, so if you want a shiny new graphics card down the line, there’s a good chance EK will be able to accommodate.
For PC builders who can handle the moisture, the 275 Conquest is fair game.
For PC builders who can handle the moisture, the 275 Conquest is fair game. You can buy everything in the system, all bits of the cooling loop included, on its own. You’ll need to set aside some time to plan and execute upgrades due to the custom loop, but EK doesn’t lock users with upgrade limitations as the Asus GA35DX does.
Processor performance The heart of the EK 275 Conquest is the Ryzen 9 5900X. It’s a powerful 12-core processor that, up until recently, was only outclassed by AMD’s own Ryzen 9 5950X. The Conquest is an all-AMD system, which is a bit to its detriment (at least before AMD reveals its Ryzen 7000 processors ).
EK 275 Conquest (Ryzen 9 5900X) Maingear Vybe (Ryzen 9 5900X) HP Omen 45L (Core i9-12900K) Cinebench R23 multi-core 20,361 20,802 23,068 Cinebench R23 single-core 1,581 1,597 1,893 Geekbench 5 multi-core 13,813 12,724 15,685 Geekbench 5 single-core 1,629 1,718 1,910 PugetBench for Premiere Pro 842 956 1,025 The Ryzen 9 5900X inside the 275 Conquest falls in line where I’d expect. Compared to the Maingear Vybe, which has the same processor, you can see almost identical single- and multi-core results in Cinebench and Geekbench. The HP Omen 45L is a more interesting point of comparison.
It comes with Intel’s Core i9-12900K , which universally outclasses the Ryzen 9 5900X. The multi-core improvements in Geekbench and Cinebench are impressive, but the single-core results stand out more. Intel is at the top of the stack when it comes to processor performance right now, and the EK only offers machines with AMD chips.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends The RX 6900 XT is a sour point for creative pros, too. You can see how it lags behind the RTX 3080 Ti in the Maingear Vybe and the RTX 3090 in the HP Omen 45L in PugetBench. Despite the RX 6900 XT being an exceptionally powerful GPU, Nvidia still has the lead when it comes to creative apps. Thankfully, EK offers Nvidia cards if you want one.
Gaming performance Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Processor performance may be disappointing, but the 275 Conquest is a hell of a gaming machine. The RX 6900 XT powering the graphics is obscenely powerful, matching or even exceeding the best that Nvidia has to offer. You can see my results at 4K with the highest-quality preset below.
EK 275 Conquest (RX 6900 XT) Maingear Vybe (RTX 3080 Ti) HP Omen 45L (RTX 3090) Forza Horizon 4 192 fps 148 fps 159 fps Red Dead Redemption 2 76 fps 76 fps 76 fps Assassin’s Creed Valhalla 68 fps 64 fps 66 fps 3DMark Time Spy 19,492 17,160 18,523 3DMark Fire Strike 39,307 35,088 N/A Fortnite 80 fps 82 fps 82 fps Cyberpunk 2077 non-RT 43 fps 38 fps N/A Cyberpunk 2077 RT w/ FSR 42 fps 38 fps N/A The HP Omen 45L comes with an RTX 3090, but the RX 6900 XT outclasses it. In every game but Fortnite, the RX 6900 XT managed a lead over Nvidia’s most powerful GPU. And those differences are significant in some cases, with the 275 Conquest outpacing the Omen 45L by nearly 21% in Forza Horizon 5.
Step down to the RTX 3080 Ti inside the Maingear Vybe, and the differences open up even more. That said, I saw some hard limits in certain titles regardless of the GPU’s power.
Red Dead Redemption 2 is a good example, with the same average frame rate across the three GPUs at 4K.
The RX 6900 XT is a great gaming GPU, but it has a weakness: Ray tracing. Even the RTX 3080 Ti was 46% faster in Cyberpunk 2077 with ray tracing turned on, despite falling short of the RX 6900 XT with ray tracing turned off. You can compensate with AMD’s FidelityFX Super Resolution (FSR) , but it doesn’t look great.
I’m extremely happy with the gaming performance of the 275 Conquest.
A big advantage of Nvidia graphics cards right now is Deep Learning Super Sampling (DLSS).
 It’s essential to get ray tracing games playable, and it looks much better than FSR. The RX 6900 XT is the cream of the crop, but Nvidia has better platform features at the moment. And that makes a big difference in titles like Cyberpunk 2077.
Still, I’m extremely happy with the gaming performance of the 275 Conquest. If it wasn’t for the poor ray tracing performance, the RX 6900 XT would be the best graphics card on the market, no question. The good news is that most games don’t have ray tracing, and if you want to turn it on, FSR can still improve your performance.
Software Jacob Roach / Digital Trends It’s hardly surprising given how much else the 275 Conquest gets right, but the machine doesn’t come loaded with bloatware. All that’s installed out of the box is AMD Ryzen Master and Asus Armoury Crate — both essential utilities for the components inside.
The machine also comes loaded with Windows 10, which I’m a fan of.
Windows 11 is still very new, and many PC gamers prefer Windows 10 for stability. This machine is fully compatible with Windows 11, however, so you can upgrade for free if you want.
Our take The EK 275 Conquest manages exceptional build quality, stunning visuals, and chilly temperatures for a price that’s almost too good to be true. If you want custom watercooling and don’t want the hassle, EK Fluid Gaming is your best option. Anything else is effectively wasting money.
Are there any alternatives? Yes, but most of them are more expensive: $6,000 Maingear Vybe — Much more expensive and comes with a worse case, but Maingear offers more customization options.
$5,000 Origin Genesis — Significantly larger and more expensive, and doesn’t included a water-ooled GPU. There are more customization options, however.
How long will it last? You need to drain and refill the EK 275 Conquest at least once a year, but as long as you do that, it can last for a long time. Upgrades are possible, though they may not be practical if you don’t want to get your hands dirty with custom watercooling.
Should you buy it? Yes. The EK 275 Conquest is exceptionally well built, and it’s much cheaper than the competition. It also uses EK parts for watercooling, which have a massive pedigree in the community.
Editors' Recommendations Despite mixed reviews, the RTX 4060 is moving the needle for Nvidia Star Wars Jedi: Survivor is being review-bombed on Steam as a ‘total crap’ PC port This diorama is the meta gaming PC of my dreams — and you can win it How does this amazing custom PC stay cool without fans? It ‘breathes,’ of course The best boutique custom gaming PCs Desktop Reviews PC Gaming Product Reviews Computing Lenovo is probably one of the best-known laptop makers, especially since they have an incredibly wide variety of them to choose from. That also means they have an excellent selection of gaming laptops, so you can hone in on something that fits your budget. That's especially the case with the ongoing early Black Friday deals that are seeing laptops being cut down in price across the board. That said, Lenovo's selection of gaming laptops is too wide for us to include all their active deals here, so we've selected some of our favorites for both AMD and Intel CPUs. Also, if you're not sure of where to start, you should check out our list of best Lenovo laptops for some good options.
Best Lenovo Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals (AMD) Lenovo has a wider selection of AMD gaming laptops, which is great if you want to go with something AMD-powered. Unfortunately, there aren't any good deals on Lenovo laptops with both an AMD CPU and GPU, but the selection below is wide enough to pick something that fits your needs a bit better. And, if you want something with an RTX 4090 on a budget, then the AMD version is probably the cheapest for Lenovo.
Computing Printers are complicated machines featuring a mix of plastics, metals, electronics, and components, some of which are potentially flagged as hazardous waste. In 2023, it's more important than ever to be kind to the planet, and there are several environmentally safe ways to dispose of a printer.
Even the best printers in the world can reach the end of their life after several years if ink or toner is no longer available. A well-loved printer can suffer from accumulated wear and tear or damage from a catastrophic power surge that's too expensive to repair.
Computing It's Black Friday, which means it is time to give expensive tech products and fun, but expensive, toys a second look. The right Black Friday deals are there to take these categories of products down in price. Where these categories of expensive tech and cool toys collide is the Meta Quest 2, a VR headset, and sure enough, it has a good sale going on over at Amazon right now. Normally $300, its price has dropped by $51 down to just $249, one of the best VR headset Black Friday deals we've seen. The really good news? This deal is here now, so you don't have to wait to buy it like you will with the rest of your post Thanksgiving shopping. In fact, if you tap the button below and buy now, and with a little shipping luck, you might have it by Thanksgiving to play with your family.
Why you should buy the Meta Quest 2 The Meta Quest 2, which dominated Steam last year, is a VR headset that gives a full 360 field of view, allows you to experience 3D positional audio, and has over 500 compatible titles between gaming, fitness, and other experiences. If you're a Twitch viewer, you may recognize it from streamers playing Meta Quest 2 games like Beat Saber or the somewhat ironically humorous Among Us VR. It refreshes at 120Hz and gives each eye a view of 1832 x 1920p.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
