Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Reviews HP 930 Creator Wireless Mouse review: Made for creators By Mark Coppock Close $90.00 Ergonomic design Seven customizable buttons Long battery life Quickcharge capability Only for right-handers A bit expensive HP has doubled down on its recent effort to woo creative customers, with a full line of laptops like the Envy 14 and Envy 15 aimed squarely at creative professionals. But HP hasn’t stopped with laptops. It’s also come out with the HP 930 Creator Wireless Mouse, a device that’s meant to work more efficiently in applications like Adobe Photoshop and Premiere Pro.
Design Ergonomics Performance Programmability Our take I received a 930 Creator Wireless Mouse review unit alongside the HP Envy x360 15 , another laptop aimed at creators. I put the $90 wireless mouse through its paces — does it offer anything to compete against the best mice ? Razer’s Naga X is a 16-button gaming mouse made to slay MMO titles Logitech made a Mac-specific MX Master 3. Is it the ultimate mouse for Mac? Design Mark Coppock/Digital Trends The 930 Creator Wireless Mouse is constructed of two-tone silver and grey plastic and feels sturdy enough. It’s light and easy to move around without feeling cheap, and the lower part that flares out to the left has a bit of a grippy coating that helps maintain control during fast mousing. Other than the color scheme, HP’s mouse looks a lot like Logitech’s MX Master 3 , its main competitor.
Like the MX Master 3, the 930 Creator Wireless Mouse has a dual function scroll wheel with a button that switches from ratcheted to free-scrolling mode. HP’s version is just as smooth when allowed to flow freely but chunkier in ratchet mode. The scroll wheel can be depressed and pushed left and right for additional functionality.
Along the left-hand side toward the top of the flare are four buttons. The one closest to the user switches between two Bluetooth devices, while the other three can be programmed to serve many functions (more on that later).
This is actually an unfortunate arrangement because it’s far too easy to hit the Bluetooth switch rather than the first programmable button, disconnecting the active device. I’ve used the mouse for a few weeks now, and I still hit the wrong button on occasion. HP would have been smarter to put the button on the bottom of the mouse.
Mark Coppock/Digital Trends The 930 Creator Mouse comes with a proprietary dongle that’s plugged into a slot on the bottom. It’s accessible via a magnetic cover that’s easy enough to open once you read the attached diagram that tells you to press on the bottom to pry up the cover. When combined with the two Bluetooth connections, the dongle lets you connect to a total of three devices.
Like the MX Master 3, you can connect to multiple devices at once via Bluetooth and the dongle and move the cursor and files between devices. That’s a nice feature if you use multiple machines at once, and the feature works between Windows 10 and Mac OS.
Ergonomics Mark Coppock/Digital Trends Thanks to its well-design contours and rounded design, the 930 Creator Wireless Mouse is a comfortable device to use — if you’re right-handed, that is. It’s pretty much unusable by left-handed users, which is unfortunate. Of course, the same can be said of the Logitech MX Master 3 and many similar mice.
For those who can use it, though, and if your hand isn’t too large, then you’ll find the mouse to fit comfortably in your palm and your thumb to rest easily on the flare. Moving the mouse around is an easy enough process that doesn’t generate significant fatigue even after hours of use.
It’s a mouse that’s meant to be used for long creative sessions.
The buttons are in the right spots, making them readily accessible but not too easy to press by accident (except for the Bluetooth switch, as mentioned above). The left and right buttons have a nice click and aren’t too loud.
All in all, the 930 Creator Wireless Mouse passes the ergonomic mouse test quite nicely. It’s a mouse that’s meant to be used for long creative sessions, and you won’t find it getting in your way.
Performance Mark Coppock/Digital Trends The 930 Creator Wireless Mouse has a sensor resolution of 800 to 3,000 dots per inch (dpi), below some competitive mice that can be up to 10,000 dpi resolution. The MX Master 3, for example, has 4,000 dpi resolution, more than the HP but not so much that the typical user will notice. The HP Accessory Center app can be installed from the Microsoft Store to set the resolution.
As mentioned above, the scroll wheel works remarkably quickly when in smooth-scrolling mode. In fact, it might move too quickly if you’re fidgety, but it lets you move through long web pages and documents with ease. As far as cursor control goes, the 930 Creator Wireless Mouse is a confident performer, providing precise control thanks to a combination of just enough weight and the ergonomic design.
A one-minute charge will provide 30 minutes of battery life.
HP promises up to 12 weeks of battery life on a single charge. So far, I’ve been using it for a couple of weeks and I’m still sitting at around 70% battery life. So, I’m on track to approach HP’s estimate. HP also indicates that a one-minute charge will provide 30 minutes of battery life, great for those times when you need to finish a task and the battery runs out.
Programmability All seven of the 930 Creator Wireless Mouse’s buttons — the depressed scroll wheel, the scroll wheel’s left and right action, the right button, and the three programmable buttons — can be assigned to functions within several applications. The HP Accessory Center app is used to program the buttons.
Image used with permission by copyright holder As in the example above, the app can recognize several applications and automatically assign specific functions to each button. Or, the functions can be set manually. It’s an easy-to-use app that makes customizing the mouse for supported applications a breeze.
Our take The HP 930 Creator Wireless Mouse is a great new addition to the programmable mice category. It’s well-built, feels great in hand (if you’re right-handed), and offers easy-to-use and very flexible programmability. Buying this mouse alongside an HP laptop makes perfect sense, and gives you one place to go for support.
There are other good mice, though, so do your shopping. Chances are you’ll have the 930 Creator Wireless Mouse on your shortlist.
Are there any alternatives? The most direct competitor is the Logitech MX Master 3, which costs $10 more than HP’s mouse. The Logitech also supports several applications with customized buttons, but not as many as the 930 Creator Wireless Mouse.
The Razer Pro Click is another alternative to the 930 Creator Wireless Mouse, and it, too, is $10 more. You’ll find that the Razer has longer battery life, an equally ergonomic design, a 16,000 dpi sensor, support for up to four devices, eight programmable buttons, and longer battery life. It’s a formidable competitor.
How long will it last? The 930 Creator Wireless Mouse is well-built and should last for years of use. The one-year warranty is an industry standard.
Should you buy it? Yes. It feels great in hand and it’s customizable to fit your workflow.
Editors' Recommendations The best wireless mouse for 2023: top wireless mice tested and compared HP’s Elite Wireless Earbuds are made for remote work collaboration Desktop Reviews Product Reviews Windows Reviews Computing Lenovo is probably one of the best-known laptop makers, especially since they have an incredibly wide variety of them to choose from. That also means they have an excellent selection of gaming laptops, so you can hone in on something that fits your budget. That's especially the case with the ongoing early Black Friday deals that are seeing laptops being cut down in price across the board. That said, Lenovo's selection of gaming laptops is too wide for us to include all their active deals here, so we've selected some of our favorites for both AMD and Intel CPUs. Also, if you're not sure of where to start, you should check out our list of best Lenovo laptops for some good options.
Best Lenovo Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals (AMD) Lenovo has a wider selection of AMD gaming laptops, which is great if you want to go with something AMD-powered. Unfortunately, there aren't any good deals on Lenovo laptops with both an AMD CPU and GPU, but the selection below is wide enough to pick something that fits your needs a bit better. And, if you want something with an RTX 4090 on a budget, then the AMD version is probably the cheapest for Lenovo.
Computing Printers are complicated machines featuring a mix of plastics, metals, electronics, and components, some of which are potentially flagged as hazardous waste. In 2023, it's more important than ever to be kind to the planet, and there are several environmentally safe ways to dispose of a printer.
Even the best printers in the world can reach the end of their life after several years if ink or toner is no longer available. A well-loved printer can suffer from accumulated wear and tear or damage from a catastrophic power surge that's too expensive to repair.
Computing It's Black Friday, which means it is time to give expensive tech products and fun, but expensive, toys a second look. The right Black Friday deals are there to take these categories of products down in price. Where these categories of expensive tech and cool toys collide is the Meta Quest 2, a VR headset, and sure enough, it has a good sale going on over at Amazon right now. Normally $300, its price has dropped by $51 down to just $249, one of the best VR headset Black Friday deals we've seen. The really good news? This deal is here now, so you don't have to wait to buy it like you will with the rest of your post Thanksgiving shopping. In fact, if you tap the button below and buy now, and with a little shipping luck, you might have it by Thanksgiving to play with your family.
Why you should buy the Meta Quest 2 The Meta Quest 2, which dominated Steam last year, is a VR headset that gives a full 360 field of view, allows you to experience 3D positional audio, and has over 500 compatible titles between gaming, fitness, and other experiences. If you're a Twitch viewer, you may recognize it from streamers playing Meta Quest 2 games like Beat Saber or the somewhat ironically humorous Among Us VR. It refreshes at 120Hz and gives each eye a view of 1832 x 1920p.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
