Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Reviews Logitech G915 Lightspeed TKL long-term review: The Magic Keyboard for gaming By Jacob Roach Close $230.00 Superb typing experience Bright RGB lighting Fast wireless technology Long battery life Bug-free, useful software Expensive Incompatible with most mechanical keyboard accessories Logitech’s G915 is for the gamer who wants the aesthetics of Apple’s Magic Keyboard with the feel of a mechanical switch (plus a good dose of RGB). I have searched far and wide for a keyboard that nails the look and feel, and after scouring dozens of low-profile options, I settled on the Logitech’s recent G915 TKL.
Design Switches and performance G-Hub software Our take It’s not as robust as a full-size board, and the price, like a lot of Logitech peripherals, is too high. Still, the combination of the Lightspeed wireless technology, fairly unique low-profile switches, and rock-solid build make the G915 feel like it earns its asking price.
The best PC gaming peripherals of CES 2022: Mice, keyboards, headsets, and more Serious gamer? These Asus, Razer gaming keyboards have never been cheaper New Logitech wireless headset, colorful gaming peripherals seek mass appeal It’s a keyboard that manages gaming and typing well, and it’s a showstopper in the visual department. Although it took a while to adjust to the low-profile keycaps and Logitech’s switches, I’ve grown to love the balance that the G915 offers — and after months of continuous use, I’m not returning to a full-size keyboard any time soon.
Design Jacob Roach / Digital Trends The Logitech G915 is available in two versions: Either full-size or a tenkeyless (TKL) design. I got my hands on the TKL version, which ditches the number pad that usually occupies the right side of the board. TKL boards have gotten more popular over the last few years — take the Corsair K70 RGB TKL , for example — and that’s a trend I can get behind.
A little extra space on your desk goes a long way in gaming, and the overall slim design of the G915 TKL makes it feel much smaller than it actually is. Logitech sells a version with a number pad, but unless you need one for hot keys in programs like Adobe Premiere or Pro Tools, you should stick with the TKL model.
The G915 TKL’s design is basic but beautiful. It’s a slab of brushed aluminum with some keys stuck to it, but it still manages to look better than boards like the Razer BlackWidow V3 Mini.
There are a couple of reasons why. First, the RGB lighting. Even at full brightness, the lighting just barely spills out of the sides of the keys, with most of the light focused toward the top of the keycap. Second is the limited number of additional buttons, which helps it remain functional without going off the deep end.
The G915 TKL’s design is basic but beautiful.
Outside of the keys, you have access to four media buttons, four function buttons, and a volume wheel. The four function buttons do a few different things. There is a brightness button that lets you cycle through five brightness levels (including off), as well as a Game Mode switch that disables the Windows key. Through the included G-Hub software, you can use Game Mode to disable any keys you want.
The other two buttons are for inputs, either Logitech’s own Lightspeed wireless technology or Bluetooth. You can seamlessly switch between Lightspeed and Bluetooth at the touch of a button, which is a big win for the G915. It’s small enough to use on the couch with something like the Nvidia Shield , and I appreciated being able to jump back and forth without reconnecting dongles or fussing around with pairing.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Logitech sells a version of the G915 with a wire (called the G815), but it’s only slightly cheaper than the wireless version. Wireless peripherals have gotten a lot better over the last several years, and Lightspeed is a showcase of that. It’s impossible to tell the difference between wired and wireless, even in twitchy shooters like Counter-Strike: Global Offensive.
The volume wheel feels great. It’s metal and provides smooth adjustment over the edge of the board, making quick volume changes a breeze. I just wish that quality carried over into the media and function buttons. They’re made of a soft rubber material and feel mushy to the touch. I never missed an input while using them, but they still don’t feel great.
In addition to the keyboard, you also get a Logitech-branded micro USB cable, the Lightspeed USB receiver, and a USB range extender in the box. Critically, the G915 TKL is missing a wrist rest, which is tough to swallow at $230. I didn’t miss a wrist rest while using the G915, though.
I use a desk mat for my keyboard and mouse. Given the G915’s slim form — it’s only 0.9 inches tall — my wrists comfortably rest on my desk mat without needing to bend upward. That’s great in my situation, but it’s not ideal if you don’t have a desk mat. Slim wrist rests are only about $15, so it it would’ve been nice to see one in the box.
Switches and performance Jacob Roach / Digital Trends I prefer a traditional Brown switch for typing, as it offers the tactile feedback of a Blue switch without the annoying click. The G915 TKL doesn’t use a Cherry MX mechanical switch or one of its derivatives, but rather one of Logitech’s GL switches that approximate the feel of a full-size Cherry switch.
There are three options available: Clicky, Tactile, or Linear, which approximate a Cherry MX Blue, Brown, or Red switch, respectively. I settled on the Tactile switch for a balance between my day-to-day writing tasks and gaming. Although Cherry makes some low-profile switches, it doesn’t make a Brown variant, making the Tactile switch a perfect fit for my purposes.
I’ve always struggled between balancing writing and gaming, and the Tactile switch makes compromises I can live with. It’s not as pleasant to type on as a full-size Brown switch, and the gaming experience doesn’t get near approximating a Red switch. But the balance between the two is excellent. Gaming feels better thanks to the decreased travel distance, and writing still feels tactile.
The thinner profile took a while to get used to, though. The G915 itself is angled, but the keys live on a flat plane. That increases the likelihood of accidently slipping up or down a row while typing or gaming, which I found myself doing often when I first picked up the G915 TKL. Thankfully, after a couple of weeks using the keyboard, I got used to the slightly different typing experience.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Although the Tactile switch gets close to a Cherry MX Brown, it’s not an exact copy. Logitech’s switch has an actuation distance of 1.5mm while a full-size switch has a distance of 2mm. If you bottom-out the key, Logitech’s switch can travel up to 2.7mm while a full-size switch can travel 4mm.
The larger difference comes in force. The Logitech Tactile switch requires 60 grams of force to reach the tactile point, while a Cherry MX Brown is a little lighter at 55 grams. It’s a small change, but the extra bit of pressure makes a difference in a low-profile design. The extra force makes the Tactile switch feel closer to a full-size switch, despite a much smaller travel distance.
Logitech’s switches hold up well against the Cherry competition.
Although the switch carries Logitech’s GL branding, it actually comes from Kailh’s Choc series. There are only a few keyboards that come with these switches, and no options that I could find from major brands. There are more boutique boards like the Morgrie RKB 68 that use them, however, and that board is cheaper than the G915 TKL.
Still, the G915’s switches carry a compromise. They’re not perfect for gaming, and they’re not perfect for typing, but they do both well enough to earn their keep. As long as you’re willing to adjust to a slightly altered typing experience, Logitech’s switches hold up well against the Cherry competition.
Unfortunately, these are still Logitech switches, and like previous designs, they aren’t compatible with other keycaps. There aren’t a ton of low-profile keycaps right now, but it would have been nice to see additional universal support when more sets inevitably pop up down the line.
That makes mechanical keyboards like the Roccat Vulcan TKL and Cooler Master SK630 a little more attractive — especially with how cheap they are compared to the G915. Both of these keyboards use the standard cross for Cherry switches, making keycap swaps a breeze.
G-Hub software I don’t mess with bundled keyboard software much. In most cases, I set the lighting I want and let the software quietly eat up system resources in the background. Logitech’s G-Hub is different. It’s functional, easy to use, and — critically — free of bugs. This is how you do peripheral software.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Lighting breaks down into three categories: Presets, freestyle, and animations. Presets give you access to standard RGB effects like breathing and a color wave, Freestyle lets you paint colors on any key you want, and animations let you create a chain of unique changes between colors.
Although there are other pieces of software with more options — Corsair iCUE, in particular — G-Hub still presents a good level of customization. It’s easy to use for someone who wants to set and forget RGB, while still offering some different effects and animations. You can even set up the lighting to match whatever’s on your screen or to function like an audio visualizer.
You can also automatically sync the G915 with other Lightsync products from Logitech, as well as use specific lighting effects in supported games. You can see your ammo bar in Borderlands 3, for example, as well as immediately view your critical keys in Final Fantasy XIV.
Only a small number of games are supported, but it was a nice treat whenever I booted up a supported title.
Lighting is what gets you into G-Hub, but that’s not what will keep you there. You can remap any key, set up macros, and map system functions like copy and paste.
 That’s nothing out of the ordinary for a gaming keyboard, but G-Hub makes mapping macros feel effortless. You can quickly drag functions like Alt + Tab to a function button from a pool, as well as modulate between commands and macros with an optional G-Shift button.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Once you have everything set up the way you like, you can store three macro and two lighting profiles on board and cycle through them with a key you select (the first four function keys by default).
Finally, you can view your battery level in G-Hub, as well as your remaining battery life. Logitech rates the G915 TKL for 40 hours of use at 100% brightness (30 hours for the full-size version), but you’ll get much more than that. The keyboard automatically enters a rest mode after a while, saving your battery life when you’re away from your desk.
I’ve used the G915 TKL at 50% brightness for months, and with semicontinuous use for 10 to 12 hours a day, I usually need to top up the battery every couple of weeks. That time shrinks significantly at full brightness, but the keys still put out plenty of light at the lower brightness levels while saving you a lot of battery life.
The G915 uses a Micro USB cable for charging, and you can continue using the keyboard while it’s topping up. Although Logitech includes a Micro USB cable in the box, I would’ve liked to see USB-C for charging. In my case, at least, USB-C has become the standard across all of my devices, so I can quickly swap in a new cable whenever I inevitably lose the one that came in the box. With the G915 TKL, I have to dig through a pile of three-foot micro USB cables to find one that will actually stretch to the port.
That’s a bit of a testament to the G915, though — I charge it so infrequently that I don’t keep a dedicated cable on my desk. Still, USB-C isn’t too big of an ask for a $230 keyboard, especially one that’s still fairly new.
Our take The Logitech G915 TKL is too expensive compared to other keyboards that provide the same or a similar low-profile experience. However, the combination of wireless connectivity, useful media and function buttons, a robust build, and bug-free software make the G915 TKL earn its asking price.
It strikes a balance between typing and gaming that I enjoy, and it looks fantastic sitting on my desk. Adjusting to the low-profile switches takes some time, but I’ve never felt the need to go back to a full-size switches in my many months of using the G915 TKL.
The downside is that, like other Logitech peripherals, you don’t have options for third-party accessories. As someone who likes swapping out keycaps and experimenting with different switches, I know the G915 TKL will, at some point, rest in my keyboard graveyard. It hasn’t made its way there yet, however, and that’s a good sign.
Are there any alternatives? Yes, but not a lot. The Roccat Vulcan TKL and Cooler Master Cooler Master SK630 are both cheaper low-profile alternatives, though they lack wireless and use different switches. The G915 is fairly unique with its combination of switches and wireless technology, but there are boutique options that use the same switches with a wire.
How long will it last? Logitech’s GL switches are rated for 5o million actuations. Of course, the number of actuations depends on how often you use your keyboard. Assuming general use, the G915 will last several decades, and even then, it might still have a little life.
Should you buy it? Yes, but look for it on sale. The G915 has some obvious oversights, and it’s incompatible with most mechanical keyboard accessories. It’s a fantastic low-profile option, but Logitech is able to charge a high price given how few true competitors it has in this category.
Editors' Recommendations Logitech’s new MX keyboard brings mechanical switches to the masses Razer BlackWidow V3 Mini Hyperspeed review: The best small gaming keyboard ever? Save big on Acer, Logitech, and Razer gaming mice this Prime Day The Logitech G502 Lightspeed doesn’t need wires for high-performance gaming Logitech’s wireless G502 Lightspeed is faster than wired gaming mice Desktop Reviews PC Gaming Product Reviews Computing Introducing MX518 Gaming Mouse - The Legend Reborn A good mouse is a weapon for your PC gaming wars that will be by your side for years with only minor maintenance required. But even firm friends must be put out to pasture eventually. If your Logitech MX518 gaming mouse is on its last legs, then Logitech has you covered. It's bringing back that iconic design, reviving it as the G MX518. It looks and feels the same, but it's got a whole host of new hardware under the hood.
Computing The design of Apple's Magic Mouse continues to be a major complaint among Mac users, a blight on Apple's otherwise fantastic design choices. The ergonomics are inhuman, it still uses a Lightning charging port (even on the new M3 iMac), and it can't be charged while being used.
However, an engineer has introduced his design concept that would not only solve the charging issue on the Magic Mouse but also make the design ergonomic and comfortable for natural handling.
Computing Lenovo is probably one of the best-known laptop makers, especially since they have an incredibly wide variety of them to choose from. That also means they have an excellent selection of gaming laptops, so you can hone in on something that fits your budget. That's especially the case with the ongoing early Black Friday deals that are seeing laptops being cut down in price across the board. That said, Lenovo's selection of gaming laptops is too wide for us to include all their active deals here, so we've selected some of our favorites for both AMD and Intel CPUs. Also, if you're not sure of where to start, you should check out our list of best Lenovo laptops for some good options.
Best Lenovo Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals (AMD) Lenovo has a wider selection of AMD gaming laptops, which is great if you want to go with something AMD-powered. Unfortunately, there aren't any good deals on Lenovo laptops with both an AMD CPU and GPU, but the selection below is wide enough to pick something that fits your needs a bit better. And, if you want something with an RTX 4090 on a budget, then the AMD version is probably the cheapest for Lenovo.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
