Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Razer Basilisk V3 gaming mouse review: Not revolutionary, but still good By Niels Broekhuijsen Close $70.00 Tons of RGB 10+1 programmable buttons Optical switches Great 26K sensor Quality cable Heavy for a wired mouse More attractive competition Razer makes a lot of gaming mice , and the Basilisk is among its more admired offerings. Today, the company is coming out with a new, updated variant: The Basilisk V3. Razer has slightly updated its design, swapped in a new sensor and free-spinning scroll wheel, and even sprinkled in some more RGB for good measure.
Design Buttons and sensors Other features Gaming performance Our take This isn’t the wireless Basilisk Ultra – the Basilisk V3 comes with a traditional cable – but that does mean it’s priced at just $70. The third iteration of the Razer Basilisk isn’t revolutionary, but the upgrades mean this standby is still one of the best wired mice you can buy.
What is AMD 3D V-Cache? Extra gaming performance unlocked Razer’s new Ornata V3 keyboard uses hybrid ‘mecha-membrane’ switches Lenovo IdeaPad Gaming 3 hands-on review: Gaming on the cheap Design Starting with the mouse’s design, Razer largely kept the mouse’s shape identical to what it used to be – a mildly ergonomic right-handed gaming mouse built to be great for palm and claw grips. At a medium size, unless you have especially small hands, chances are you will be leaning toward a claw grip with this pointer, especially in-game.
Weighing in at 101 grams, the mouse is a little weighty by today’s standards, especially for a wired mouse. The benefit here is that Razer hasn’t shaved the shell to be ultralight, so the mouse does inspire confidence when it comes to build quality. The center is made of textured plastic with a few glossy elements, whereas the left thumb rest and grip on the right are made from a nice, grippy rubber material.
Previously, the Razer logo and scroll wheel were lit as they are here, but the V3 adds a strip of RGB along the majority of the mouse’s lower perimeter, creating a sort of underglow effect that does look quite dashing.
And then there’s the cable, which can be the elephant in the room for many gaming mice today. That’s not the case here, as Razer has done a nice job with it. Companies have been developing their wireless tech tirelessly over the last few years in order to get rid of the cable, but that doesn’t mean cable developments have stood still: The Basilisk V3 might have a thick, pretty braided cable, but it’s extremely light and oh-so flexible, so in terms of feel, you barely notice its presence. Yes, you see it, but it doesn’t look so bad.
The Razer’s main competition is Logitech’s G502 Hero , a mouse with an almost identical design and feature set. At least as far as the shape is concerned, although the dimensions are nearly identical, the G502 is slightly fuller and has more squared-off edges – it’s not as round as the Basilisk V3, and I prefer it. But there’s very little in it, and unless you have the two side by side, you won’t be able to tell which you like more.
Buttons and sensors Powering the Basilisk V3 is Razer’s 26K DPI Focus+ sensor, and although there is no situation in which I can recommend gaming at this kind of DPI, it is a good sensor. It’s responsive and tracks accurately without any acceleration. Tracking is said to be accurate at up to 650 IPS, and although I haven’t tested this figure, I personally play at a low DPI, and the V3 has been more than capable of keeping up with my fast flicks across great distances.
The Basilisk V3 is a mouse that is fast enough to always keep up with you, the gamer.
Meanwhile, under the main left and right buttons, Razer implemented its second-generation optical mouse switches, which is yet another factor contributing to the Basilisk V3’s gaming pedigree. Although traditional buttons are plenty fast, the benefit of an optical switch is that the mouse’s controller doesn’t need to account for debounce, leading to faster actuations — as soon as the button is pressed and the optical signal is interrupted, the actuation signal is sent to the PC.
Pair that with the mouse’s 1000Hz polling rate, and you can rest assured that whatever it is that’s leading to your death in-game, it isn’t the mouse.
Other features But the fun of the Basilisk V3 doesn’t end there. One of the main upgrades, and one I personally hugely appreciate, is the scroll wheel. It now spins freely at the press of a button, making it a breeze to navigate through large texts and websites. The catch is that the adjustable resistance from the V2 mouse is gone, but I would say this is a justified trade-off.
The runner-up highlight of the Basilisk V3 is the Hypershift button – a key directly ahead of your thumb that briefly lowers the DPI when pressed. Imagine this as a sort of sniping mode, and pressing it lets you aim with more accuracy to line up your shot. The button is reshaped from the V2 mouse to a more subtle implementation.
Meanwhile, all the mouse’s buttons are fully customizable, and there is a button at the bottom to switch through different profiles. This last feature is great for when you play multiple types of games and require totally different mouse assignments. For example, you may need a low DPI profile for FPS shooters that has certain buttons assigned to throw grenades or switch to your melee weapon, but then want to switch to high DPI and other button assignments for strategy games. That’s all easy to configure in Razer’s software, and the button at the bottom makes switching between them a breeze.
Gaming performance To test the Razer Basilisk V3’s gaming performance, I jumped straight into Insurgency Sandstorm, as this is a realistic first-person shooter game that’s ideal for testing a gaming mouse. With my mates, we play this game as a team of humans versus the highest bot count possible — a proper challenge — and the Basilisk V3 more than kept up with my gameplay.
My usual go-to mouse is the Logitech G Pro X Superlight , and although the Basilisk V3 didn’t quite match up to it, it wasn’t far off either. Any new mouse takes time to get used to, and the Superlight is both much lighter and wireless – but it’s also twice as expensive and is about as feature-rich as a piece of cardboard. This makes a strong case for the Basilisk V3.
Our take Razer’s Basilisk V3 may not be a huge update, but its reshaped Hypershift button, free-spinning scroll wheel, updated sensor, and added dash of RGB do keep it interesting and certainly worth considering.
It’s not a mouse worth getting hugely excited for, but it makes for a good jack-of-all-trades and a fine option for both gaming and general desktop use thanks to its scroll wheel and semi-ergonomic shape.
Are there any alternatives? The main competitor is Logitech’s G502 Hero , which has a very similar shape. Though it doesn’t pack as much RGB or optical switches, it has two more programmable buttons, tunable weights, and a more modern, angular design. It’s often also often discounted to just $50, altogether making it a more compelling option and among the Best Gaming Mice.
Meanwhile, Corsair’s Nightsword RGB may be a better fit if you have a Corsair-focused setup. It also boasts a ton of RGB and a similar feature set.
How long will it last? Under normal circumstances, the Basilisk V3 should last a minimum of about five years. Razer’s warranty covers it for two.
Should I buy it? Yes. If you’re in the market for a new gaming mouse, looking for a good jack-of-all-trades, and want something to match a Razer setup, then the Basilisk V3 is an excellent purchase, though it may be worth waiting for it to be discounted to $50.
Editors' Recommendations YouTuber claims that this ugly 3D-printed mouse is actually the best for gaming AMD 7000X3D V-Cache CPUs could challenge Intel at CES 2023 AMD’s revolutionary 3D V-Cache chip could launch very soon AMD teases performance of its revolutionary 3D V-cache chip Razer’s new Kraken V3 headset might give you a headache (in a good way) Desktop Reviews PC Gaming Product Reviews Computing If you’re choosing a new keyboard as a gamer, it can be very tempting to go for the smallest keyboard out there. Perhaps something like Corsair’s K65 RGB Mini or Razer’s Huntsman Mini, both of which sport 60% layouts.
But today Razer is introducing the BlackWidow V3 Mini Hyperspeed, and having had just over a week with a sample, I can say with certainty that this might be my favorite small gaming keyboard to date.
65% design Computing When it comes to competitive PC games, different genres call for different setups. What’s best for a fast-paced first-person shooter may not be ideal for a MOBA with a myriad of actions to keep track of. To address this quandary, SteelSeries has introduced its new Rival 5 gaming mouse, which it describes as a “chameleon” that can adapt to anything.
The Rival 5 delivers on that design philosophy with nine programmable buttons, including five quick-action buttons on its left side panel. Combine that with a lightweight design, a solid 18,000 DPI sensor, and some flashy RGB lights, and we’re talking about a feature-rich wired mouse at an impressive $60 price point, making it competitive with some of the best gaming mice. The valiant all-in-one approach isn’t without its share of quirks, though.
Low price, high quality Computing Razer's Kraken series gaming headsets have long been a popular go-to option, and today the company is releasing yet another new iteration. This one is called the Kraken V3 X, and with a lightweight design, new drivers, and Chroma RGB lighting, it might just be another big hit.
The headset weighs in at just 285 grams (1.63 pounds) without accounting for the cable. To achieve this low weight, most of the construction is plastic, but you'll appreciate the feather-light design when you're in extended gaming sessions. It's not as light as the Razer BlackShark V2 Pro, but that's a much more expensive option.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
