Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Razer Huntsman V2 TKL review: A compelling argument for wired keyboards By Niels Broekhuijsen Close $150.00 Oh-so smooth linear opto-mechanical switches Great wrist rest comfort and ergonomics Quiet typing Tidy design Detachable USB-C cable No media keys Although comfortable, wrist rest has a handful of issues No tactile switch option Razer is releasing a new TKL gaming keyboard today, just a week after introducing its new Basilisk V3 gaming mouse.
 This one is dubbed the Huntsman V2 Tenkeyless, and we have a sample on hand to see if it’s any good and worthy of competing with the very best gaming keyboards you can buy.
Design The switches Gaming performance Our take The Huntsman V2 TKL is part of the Huntsman line of ultraperformance focused wired gaming keyboards, which are built to excel in competitive gaming without costing as gobsmackingly much as the BlackWidow series.
Razer’s new Ornata V3 keyboard uses hybrid ‘mecha-membrane’ switches Razer Huntsman Mini Analog keyboard provides more control Corsair K70 RGB TKL is an excellent gaming keyboard, if only it came out in 2016 As a result, they aren’t the most feature-rich planks, but the Hunstman V2 TKL proves that its excellent switches and great form factor still make for a fantastic PC gaming companion.
Design When looking at the Huntsman TKL, the first thing that stands out about it is the simple design – it’s just a plain TKL keyboard without any fancy goodies in its peripherals. The media keys are integrated into the F-keys, instead of being dedicated, there is no volume roller, and there isn’t a ton of RGB goodness slathered in all sorts of obnoxious corners. There is some RGB, but it’s only under the main keys.
Pair that simplicity with the all-black design and the aluminum top plate, and you end up with a rather sleek keyboard that, oddly, doesn’t draw a lot of attention to itself. Razer used to be a company that built eccentrically styled gear that was unmistakably “gamer,” but nowadays, it appears to be leaning towards sleeker, more mature designs. Perhaps it’s growing up together with its core audience.
Also included with the Huntsman V2 TKL — and this is arguably the biggest upgrade from the original — is a pleather wrist rest. I first encountered this soft, plush wrist rest with the BlackWidow V3 Pro , and here, I’m still in love with it just as much. The height is perfect for comfort, and because it’s oh-so soft, typing with it becomes a real treat.
There are a few caveats: Its softness isn’t going to last forever – I do feel like the thin material will wear out by flaking relatively quickly, and on warm days, it may just be a bit too plush, leaving you begging for something more breathable.
Fortunately, Razer sells its wrist rests separately from the keyboards, too, so if you do type enough to wear it out, replacement shouldn’t be an issue. But moreover, the wrist rest doesn’t actually attach to the keyboard – there’s not even so much as a magnet to hold it in place.
The keyboard connects to your PC with a detachable, braided USB-C cable.
The switches At the heart of it all, the reason why you’d want to buy a Razer Huntsman keyboard, are the optical switches, or as Razer calls them, the opto-mechanical switches. These came onto the market in 2018 and experienced a rapid uptick in popularity, for good reason.
Niels Broekhuijsen/Digital Trends Our sample of the Huntsman V2 TKL came with the red linear variant of the switches, and these are by far my favorite. Generally, I’m a tactile (brown) switch kind of guy, but in a keyboard as gaming-focused as the Huntsman V2 TKL, I prefer a linear switch. So, thank you Razer for these. The keyboard is also available with clicky optical switches, but there is no tactile option.
But what is it that I like about the opto-mechanical switches so much? It’s the smoothness.
Razer markets the optical switches as being faster, touting all sorts of wondrous terms such as “the speed of light” and “the fastest performance you’ll ever experience,” but I couldn’t care less about those things. Sure, in a scientific test, they might outperform classic electric mechanical switches because they don’t have to account for debounce, but if you find me one person who can tell the difference in speed in a blind test, I’ll buy you a beer. Maybe two.
Niels Broekhuijsen/Digital Trends But the smoothness. I can hardly begin to describe it, as there are few switches I’ve encountered that offer a similar smoothness in their travel. With a switch such as a Cherry, or Gateron Red, you could lube them and install damping O-rings on the stems – and only with all that effort could you get close to the same smooth travel.
The way the switches travel is so supple as to exude a feeling of luxury that you don’t get on many keyboards – at least not without entering the expensive custom keyboard territory.
It’s the opto-mechanical switch’s smoothness that makes the Huntsman V2 TKL so likable.
The switches are also nearly silent. Thanks to a layer of sound-dampening foam inside the keyboard, this is one of the quieter mechanical keyboards you’ll find.
There’s just one catch: Because the switches are optical, they consume more power than traditional electric mechanical keys, which means the keyboard cannot be wireless. So, there’s a cable. And the stabilizers are not the same as on Cherry-based boards. Most keys will fit, but the longer keys won’t. The stock keycaps are double-shot PBT, though, so most people won’t bother upgrading them.
Gaming performance When jumping into gaming, the Huntsman V2 TKL is a joyous companion. The keyboard’s smaller layout isn’t quite as game-friendly as something truly small like the Razer Huntsman Mini or the BlackWidow V3 Mini , or Corsair’s K65 RGB Mini , but it’s miles better than a full-size keyboard due to the added mouse space. This lets me play at a lower DPI, resulting in more accurate shooting.
Niels Broekhuijsen/Digital Trends Pair that with the comfortable wrist rest, height, and smooth switches, and you largely forget all about the keyboard when playing – and that’s about the best compliment I can give a keyboard. It’s all just smooth sailing.
While the keyboard does poll at 8,000 Hz, 1,000 is plenty, and Corsair’s K70 RGB TKL Champion Edition already showed that you don’t need 8,000 Hz on a keyboard.
Our take Razer’s Huntsman V2 Tenkeyless is a simple but well-executed TKL keyboard for PC gamers. It isn’t wireless, which isn’t possible with optical switches (not without very limited battery life). It also doesn’t have media keys, and I have a few issues with the included wrist rest.
Despite those nitpicks, though, the excellent opto-mechanical switches and comfortable form factor will have you falling head over heels for it.
Are there any alternatives? The closest alternative from Logitech is the G Pro mechanical keyboard , which packs largely the same feature set. But it doesn’t come with the same great switches, nor the comfy wrist rest, so I’d pick the Razer of the two.
Meanwhile, Corsair carries the K70 RGB TKL Champion Series , which does have media keys and also does 8K polling, but like Logitech’s board, doesn’t have the same comfortable switches. The wrist rest, again, is missing.
How long will it last? The Huntsman V2 TKL should last a minimum of five years under normal use, though I do expect the wrist rest will need early replacement during that time — maybe twice. Razer covers the keyboard with a two-year warranty.
Should I buy it? Yes. Priced at $150, the Huntsman V2 TKL is one of the best off-the-shelf TKL keyboards currently available.
Editors' Recommendations The best Razer keyboards to buy in 2022 AMD’s defenses against Spectre V2 may be inadequate Razer BlackWidow V3 Mini Hyperspeed review: The best small gaming keyboard ever? Serious gamer? These Asus, Razer gaming keyboards have never been cheaper Save big on Acer, Logitech, and Razer gaming mice this Prime Day Desktop Reviews PC Gaming Product Reviews Computing When it comes to PC gaming, I’m the type who likes a big, full-size keyboard with a numpad. Extra buttons are a bonus. That's why Razer's new Hunstman Mini, the company's first 60% keyboard, didn't fit my preferences at first blush.
The Hunstman Mini isn't just a tenkeyless keyboard, which lacks a numpad. Razer's Hunstman Tournament Edition has that covered. The Hunstman Mini takes things a step further by hacking off a number of keys you might consider essential, such as the home, delete, and arrow keys, and your entire function row.
Computing If you're a gamer looking to spice up the look of your desk or setup with a rainbow and spectrum of colorful RGB lights, then Razer has you covered with the new Firefly V2 gaming mouse mat.
Not only is it a significant improvement over the original Firefly, this year's V2 is even priced cheaper at $50. It packs in several enhanced features, including all-round edge lighting, and a built-in cable catch. While still keeping its ultra-wide (355 mm x 255 mm) signature micro-textured hard surface, it is also slightly thinner. Measuring in a 1mm thinner than the original Firefly, it is now easier for gamers to rest their wrists on the edges.
Computing Lenovo is probably one of the best-known laptop makers, especially since they have an incredibly wide variety of them to choose from. That also means they have an excellent selection of gaming laptops, so you can hone in on something that fits your budget. That's especially the case with the ongoing early Black Friday deals that are seeing laptops being cut down in price across the board. That said, Lenovo's selection of gaming laptops is too wide for us to include all their active deals here, so we've selected some of our favorites for both AMD and Intel CPUs. Also, if you're not sure of where to start, you should check out our list of best Lenovo laptops for some good options.
Best Lenovo Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals (AMD) Lenovo has a wider selection of AMD gaming laptops, which is great if you want to go with something AMD-powered. Unfortunately, there aren't any good deals on Lenovo laptops with both an AMD CPU and GPU, but the selection below is wide enough to pick something that fits your needs a bit better. And, if you want something with an RTX 4090 on a budget, then the AMD version is probably the cheapest for Lenovo.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
