Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? SteelSeries Arctis Nova Pro Wireless review: A new standard By Jacob Roach Close $350.00 Top-tier audio quality Expansive Sonar software High-quality ANC Comfortable fit with multiple adjustment points Fully retractable microphone Dual USB inputs GameDAC doesn't fully integrate with Sonar Microphone is prone to pick up noise Spatial audio can have nasty interactions with EQ SteelSeries makes the best gaming headset you can buy, so I was shocked when the company told me about a pair that would revolutionize even the top dog: the Arctis Nova Pro Wireless headset. The Arctis Pro Wireless didn’t need an update, but SteelSeries did one anyway. And I’m happy it did.
Design Comfort Sound quality Software Our take With a stunning redesign, excellent software support, superb connectivity options, and sound quality only worthy of a flagship SteelSeries headset , the Arctis Nova Pro Wireless sets a new standard. SteelSeries set out to beat itself with the Arctis Nova Pro Wireless, and it succeeded.
SteelSeries adds customizable buttons to its lightest mouse SteelSeries Prime Wireless mice, Arctis Prime headset review: Gaming prime time? Steelseries makes budget mice and keyboards bright and sparkly with new range Design Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Design is the biggest thing that separates the Nova Pro from the regular Arctis Pro. Corsair, Razer, and multiple other headset vendors have tried to make a headset that you can use in front of your monitor and while you’re around town. But the Arctis Nova Pro is the first pair to get that balance right.
For starters, you can retract the microphone all the way back into the earcup, transforming them into a normal headset, not a gaming headset masquerading. SteelSeries doesn’t include RGB on the headset, either, instead going with a brushed aluminum finish on the earcups that looks fantastic. Replace the SteelSeries logo with a Bose or Sony logo, and you could convince me the Arctis Nova Pros came from one of those brands.
The Arctis Nova Pro is built like a premium headset, too. The plastic construction doesn’t even hint at flimsiness, and the entire shell is supported by a chunky aluminum headband. That makes the Arctis Nova Pro a bit heavier than other gaming headsets, but thankfully that doesn’t get in the way of comfort.
I have one minor issue with the design: the placement of the USB-C port. SteelSeries clearly intends for you to use the hot-swappable battery instead of charging with a wire, but that ignores when you’re using the headset apart from your PC. The USB-C is under a magnetic plate on the left earcup, forcing the cable to stick straight out for wired charging. This is definitely an Apple Magic Mouse-type charging situation.
In most cases, though, you’ll just be swapping the battery out. SteelSeries includes two, one of which charges in the GameDAC constantly. Battery life isn’t very long, much lower than the HyperX Cloud Alpha Wireless , but you’ll rarely have a dead headset with two batteries at your disposal.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends The headset is only half of the package: you also get the redesigned GameDAC. I like the larger base, and getting around the GameDAC is just as easy with a large volume wheel and a single back button. The big change is that the GameDAC comes with two USB outputs now, allowing you to swap between a console and PC or two consoles with a single press.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Even better, the two inputs can still run to the 3.5mm output on the GameDAC. For the wireless version, that means I was able to switch between the headset and my AudioEngine A2+ speakers automatically, as well as bounce between my PS5 and PC without touching a single cable. I’m shocked we haven’t seen a design like this before because it’s damn useful.
Comfort I could use the Arctis Nova Pro as an everyday headset, and a lot of that comes down to the comfort. The leatherette earcups are extremely soft and plump, and the clamping force isn’t nearly as strong as the Arctis Wireless Pro. SteelSeries really honed in on making its flagship headset as comfortable as possible, and it shows.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends As usual, the suspended headband does a lot of the heavy lifting. SteelSeries took a different approach this time around with adjustable points for the headband. When combined with independent height adjustment for each of the earcups, the Arctis Nova Pros is the most flexible headset SteelSeries has to offer.
I’d take some time to adjust them, though. I eventually arrived on a comfortable fit, but the drivers press against the fabric inside the earcups, which irritated the top of my ears when I first started using the headset.
Sound quality Jacob Roach / Digital Trends I’ve used half a dozen SteelSeries headsets, and they always sound incredible in games. The Arctis Nova Pro isn’t any different. From Destiny 2 to Elden Ring to Lego Star Wars: The Skywalker Saga, the headset was dynamic and lively across the frequency spectrum. Part of it is the GameDAC, but SteelSeries headsets are tuned perfectly themselves — everything sounds natural.
The virtual surround sound works well in games, but as I’ll get to in a moment, it feels more at home in movies. The big plus for gaming is the active noise cancellation and dual inputs. ANC works shockingly well. It’s not on the level of Sony or Bose, but it’s close.
For dual connections, 2.4GHz and Bluetooth is a treat. Like the previous Arctis Wireless Pro, you can have both connections active at the same time, which is particularly useful for a console if you want to access Discord or Spotify without an AirPod sticking out of one ear.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends I was shocked at how well movies and music held up on the Arctis Nova Pro. SteelSeries clearly had them in mind when tuning the headset. For music, I listened through Smino’s blkswn, Spiritbox’s Eternal Blue, and Tigran Hamasyan’s The Call Within to cast as wide of a net as possible, and they all sounded fantastic.
The Arctis Nova Pro has a presence in the mids, which is hard to find in gaming headsets. Take the Corsair Virtuoso Wireless XT , which similarly target a gaming/lifestyle balance like this SteelSeries headset. The tone response has several cuts in the midrange to increase clarity in games, which makes the midrange warmth necessary for music to feel like it’s lost.
Not the Arctis Nova Pro. I wouldn’t have any issues taking them in place of my Sony WH-1000XM4s on a trip. Music is one part, but the Arctis Novas handle movies well, too. The surround sound and parametric EQ really get a chance to shine in movies. For the first time ever with a gaming headset, I’m comfortable saying the Arctis Nova Pros provide a theater-like experience with bombastic sub-bass, excellent positioning, and wide dynamic range.
My only quibble is the microphone. The quality is fine, but it’s prone to pick up noise. That’s especially apparent with a noise gate turned on, where the mic seems to pick up peripheral sound at random. Thankfully, the noise suppression in apps like Discord handles the noise a bit better.
Software Image used with permission by copyright holder I’ve never been a huge fan of SteelSeries GG — read my SteelSeries Prime Wireless Mini review for more on that — but Sonar breaths new life into this application. It unlocks a new level of customization in the world of gaming headsets, mainly on the back of its 10-band parametric EQ.
EQ isn’t anything new, but parametric EQs are a new frontier. You can drag the bands to any frequency you want and adjust the Q (slope of the EQ curve) to hone in on the area you want to adjust. Sonar has several filters for each band (high pass, low shelf, etc.) for further sculpting options. You just don’t get this level of customization with most headsets, let alone gaming headsets.
The EQ presets are excellent, too. SteelSeries has several profiles for popular games that adjust the curve to target different elements — footsteps, gunshots, and the like. Sonar even has visual guides for popular games like Rainbow Six Siege and Fortnite that show you the frequency areas where critical sound effects live (like the revive sound in Call of Duty: Warzone ).
Image used with permission by copyright holder It’s a level of freedom most gaming headsets don’t come with, and consequently, most gamers are accustomed to. Sonar gives you near endless options to shape the sound, but that results in some nasty interactions with the surround sound. The good news is that you can save your own presets in Sonar so you can find something you like and stick with it.
Outside of the EQ, Sonar includes a mixer that gives you control over levels and routing. You can route game and chat audio to different devices, and you can adjust the balance between them or the volumes independently. Even better, you have access to the same options for chat audio as you do with your own microphone (useful for adding a noise gate to that friend who loves making too much background noise).
I wish that SteelSeries took Sonar into account with the GameDAC, though. As it stands now, you can’t access the mixer you see in Sonar. You can adjust the EQ and volume levels, but the original GameDAC allowed you to adjust the balance on the home screen, and I would’ve liked to see that level of integration with the hardware here.
Our take Although it has a few minor issues, it’s hard to ignore the immense package the Arctis Nova Pro Wireless is. ANC, top-notch sound quality, and all-day comfort are just the start of what the headset has to offer, easily making it the best gaming headset you can buy in 2022.
Are there any alternatives? Yes. SteelSeries’ own Arctis Pro Wireless is still available, though it’s a strict downgrade from the Arctis Nova Pro Wireless. The Astro A50 is another premium headset in this range, and it’s $50 cheaper. However, it lacks ANC and it’s not built for everyday use like the Arctis Nova Pro Wireless is.
How long will it last? I’ve owned several SteelSeries headsets over the last few years, and I’ve yet to replace one. You should get many years of use out of the Arctis Nova Pro Wireless. SteelSeries typically sells replacement parts and upgrade kits for its flagship headsets, too, so the Arctis Nova Pro Wireless shouldn’t be any different.
Should you buy it? Yes. The SteelSeries Arctis Nova Pro Wireless is a new standard for gaming headsets, and it’s the go-to option in the premium gaming headset space.
Editors' Recommendations The new SteelSeries Arctis Nova 7 headset brings hi-fi audio under $200 SteelSeries’ new water-resistant Apex 3 keyboard was made for clumsy gamers SteelSeries Rival 5 review: A feature-rich gaming mouse without the high cost New SteelSeries mechanical keyboards are the first to have adjustable actuation Gaming Desktop Reviews PC Gaming Product Reviews Computing Lenovo is probably one of the best-known laptop makers, especially since they have an incredibly wide variety of them to choose from. That also means they have an excellent selection of gaming laptops, so you can hone in on something that fits your budget. That's especially the case with the ongoing early Black Friday deals that are seeing laptops being cut down in price across the board. That said, Lenovo's selection of gaming laptops is too wide for us to include all their active deals here, so we've selected some of our favorites for both AMD and Intel CPUs. Also, if you're not sure of where to start, you should check out our list of best Lenovo laptops for some good options.
Best Lenovo Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals (AMD) Lenovo has a wider selection of AMD gaming laptops, which is great if you want to go with something AMD-powered. Unfortunately, there aren't any good deals on Lenovo laptops with both an AMD CPU and GPU, but the selection below is wide enough to pick something that fits your needs a bit better. And, if you want something with an RTX 4090 on a budget, then the AMD version is probably the cheapest for Lenovo.
Computing Printers are complicated machines featuring a mix of plastics, metals, electronics, and components, some of which are potentially flagged as hazardous waste. In 2023, it's more important than ever to be kind to the planet, and there are several environmentally safe ways to dispose of a printer.
Even the best printers in the world can reach the end of their life after several years if ink or toner is no longer available. A well-loved printer can suffer from accumulated wear and tear or damage from a catastrophic power surge that's too expensive to repair.
Computing It's Black Friday, which means it is time to give expensive tech products and fun, but expensive, toys a second look. The right Black Friday deals are there to take these categories of products down in price. Where these categories of expensive tech and cool toys collide is the Meta Quest 2, a VR headset, and sure enough, it has a good sale going on over at Amazon right now. Normally $300, its price has dropped by $51 down to just $249, one of the best VR headset Black Friday deals we've seen. The really good news? This deal is here now, so you don't have to wait to buy it like you will with the rest of your post Thanksgiving shopping. In fact, if you tap the button below and buy now, and with a little shipping luck, you might have it by Thanksgiving to play with your family.
Why you should buy the Meta Quest 2 The Meta Quest 2, which dominated Steam last year, is a VR headset that gives a full 360 field of view, allows you to experience 3D positional audio, and has over 500 compatible titles between gaming, fitness, and other experiences. If you're a Twitch viewer, you may recognize it from streamers playing Meta Quest 2 games like Beat Saber or the somewhat ironically humorous Among Us VR. It refreshes at 120Hz and gives each eye a view of 1832 x 1920p.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
