Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing News Acer’s new gaming laptops feature mini-LED, 3D displays, and affordable prices By Luke Larsen Close Acer has announced a fresh slate of laptops, including some high-end models in the Predator Triton, Swift lines, plus lots more.
The gaming laptops are the biggest announcements, including a Predator Triton 17 X that comes with a 17-inch mini-LED screen. This monster new gaming laptop looks a lot like other Predator laptops, but this one comes with a 1000-nit display, up to an RTX 4090 , and an Intel Core i9-13900HX.
Image used with permission by copyright holder But that’s an expensive bit of kit that comes in a very large chassis. If you’re looking for something smaller and cheaper, Acer also announced the Predator Triton 14. This is a renamed version of the Triton 300 SE (which was always a bad name), but now upgraded with some much more high-end components. It’ll now have options for a 250Hz mini-LED display, RTX 4070, and Core i7-13700H.
This is a direct competitor with the Asus ROG Zephyrus G14 , a very popular gaming laptop with a similar footprint. The G14 also got the upgrade to mini-LED this year, and the Triton 14 looks like it uses a similar panel, which can only go up to 600 nits of peak brightness. For that more dramatic HDR effect, stick with the brighter Triton 17 X.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The Triton 17 X will start at $3,799 when it becomes available in North America this May. The Triton 14 also comes out in May and will have a starting price of $1,499.
Don’t wait for new GPUs. It’s safe to buy a gaming laptop now Why I refuse to buy a gaming laptop, even though I need one Trump’s lawyer brought a gaming laptop to $250M fraud trial Acer is also releasing two midrange gaming laptops under its Helios brand, the Predator Helios Neo 16 and Helios 3D 15. The Helios Neo 16 is completely new, though it looks a lot like other Predator Helios laptops , such as the previous-generation Helios 300 or 500. Acer seems to have done away with that naming scheme altogether, which is a good idea. The Helios Neo 16 comes with up to an RTX 4070 with up to 140 watts of maximum graphics power. Despite being a midrange gaming laptop, there are some solid displays options, offering up to a 165Hz 1600p resolution panel.
The Helios 3D 15 starts at $3,499 and will be available in North America in June. The Helios Neo 16, meanwhile, will be available in North America starting in May at $1,199.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Beyond gaming, Acer has also announced the Swift X 16, which is the company’s MacBook Pro competitor. This is one of the first laptops to use AMD’s new Ryzen 9 7940H processors, as well as Nvidia’s RTX 4050 graphics. The display is one of the standout features. It’s a 3200 x 2000 resolution OLED panel certified as DisplayHDR TrueBlack 500 by VESA. At 0.7 inches thick, it’s marginally thicker than the 16-inch MacBook Pro , while being over a half-pound lighter.
There are loads of different configurations that will be available for the Acer Swift X 16, but the prices start at $1,250, which comes with a Ryzen 5 7535H, 512GB of storage, an RTX 3050, and 16GB of RAM.
Editors' Recommendations This is the best Dell gaming laptop you can buy 5 things you should never do with your gaming laptop YouTuber claims that this ugly 3D-printed mouse is actually the best for gaming This Acer OLED laptop (almost) beats the MacBook Air 15 — and it’s cheaper Acer’s new gaming laptop bring Nvidia RTX 40-series GPUs under $1,000 Acer Laptops PC Gaming Tech News Computing I'm not going to lie: There are a lot of great gaming laptops out there. There are so many options, in fact, that it's hard to narrow it down to a couple that truly stand out from the pack.
Even recognizing that, there are two main laptops I recommend when someone asks me directly which gaming laptop they should buy. That doesn't mean other gaming laptops are bad, but these two hit the budget and performance requirements that most people are looking for in a way few other laptops can match.
Lenovo Legion Pro 5 Computing We haven’t seen any promising gaming laptops with liquid cooling, but Lenovo might make that happen very soon. According to a report, the company has plans to launch the Legion 9i, its newest flagship gaming notebook that will feature a water-cooling solution.
The upcoming laptop is expected to feature the 13th generation Intel Core i9-13980HX, the highest-rated mobile processor offered by team blue. It is expected to be paired with the top-of-the-line Nvidia RTX 4090 mobile with 16GB of GDDR6 VRAM. This, in itself, makes it the most powerful gaming notebook on the market. However, Lenovo is taking things to the next level by incorporating a unique water-cooling solution that will additionally help in maintaining a slim profile of just 18.9mm. Thus, not only will it feature the most high-end processing chips, but it will also be the slimmest one in its category.
Computing The laptop market is a bit strange right now, which is particularly problematic if you're going back to school. We've seen some of the best gaming laptops ever this year, but many solid laptops for going back to school haven't been updated to the latest generation yet, making it hard to settle on one machine.
We've reviewed dozens of laptops in 2023, and there are only a select few that meet the balance of price, performance, and portability that students demand. If you're going back to school, these are the only three laptops you should even consider.
The high roller: Razer Blade 14 Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
