Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Reviews HP Omen 16 (2022) hands-on review: Cool and colorful By Fionna Agomuoh Close The HP Omen 16 was originally relaunched last year, sporting the company’s new premium branding and some slick design choices. HP’s second generation is less of a revival and more of a refinement.
Specs Design Ports and connectivity Display Keyboard and trackpad Performance and battery life Price and availability Image used with permission by copyright holder As the follow-up to last year’s Omen 16, which was held in fairly high regard, the new Omen 16 has focused less on introducing flashy features and more on improving its thermal system and everyday comforts for users. It comes in Intel and AMD configurations, but the new white color option is exclusive to Intel.
I got to check out the new Omen 16 (2022) and handle it up close at a preview event in New York ahead of its upcoming release to see if HP sweetened the deal enough to make this among the best gaming laptops available.
Does Dell or HP make the best 16-inch laptop? You might be surprised The HP Envy 16 costs less, but the mighty MacBook Pro 16 retains its top spot HP finally has a flagship gaming laptop, and it looks killer Specs Dimensions 14.53 x 9.76 x 0.89 inches Weight 5.29 pounds Processor 12th Gen Intel Core Processor, AMD Ryzen 6000 Processors Graphics NVIDIA RTX Graphics, AMD Radeon RX 6650M RAM Up to 32GB DDR5-4800 Display 16.1 inches, 16:9, QHD, 165Hz, 300 nits, DDS Storage PCIe Gen4x4 SSD X 2 Touch No Ports 2 USB-C, 3 USB-A, 1 HDMI 2.1, 1 SD, RJ-45, audio jack, DC-in Wireless Wi-Fi 6E 2×2, Bluetooth Webcam 720P with Temporal Noise Reduction (TNR) Operating system Windows 11 Home Battery 70 watt-hour Price, availability $1,200, Summer Design Image used with permission by copyright holder When it comes to design, the new white color option is certainly the biggest change over last year’s model. It’s striking at first glance, especially against the moving RGB lighting under the individual keys. Despite being made of aluminum, the light color with a shiny yet textured finish gave a plasticky impression up close. I didn’t get the same feel from the darker model that was on display, which I thought looked more high-end in comparison. However, I consider this mid-ranger will have had to have made some sacrifices somewhere, and it is easy to make a common laptop color like black look sleek.
The Intel model will be available in Ceramic White and Shadow Black, while the AMD model will be available in Mica Silver. This move toward lighter color options for gaming laptops isn’t new here — it’s something Alienware pioneered a few years back, and many other brands have been following suit.
Image used with permission by copyright holder At 16i inches, the Omen 16 isn’t small, but it was easy enough to carry around at 5.29 pounds. I took it to different areas in the studio for capturing images and had no issue with handling it.
The laptop has dimensions of 14.53 inches by 9.76 inches by as thin as 0.89 inches — the thickness can vary due to the component customizations. It’s not quite as thin as other gaming laptops like the Razer Blade 15 or MSI GS66 Stealth.
The other major change to the design is in the positioning of the ports. HP mentioned the movement of its main ports from the right side on the original Omen 16 to the rear on the new Omen 16 to make room for thermal heat vents and radiators. This also allowed for additional ports to the system with greater capabilities.
Ports and connectivity Image used with permission by copyright holder The updated design of the new Omen 16 has moved many of the main ports to the rear of the system. This was enough to add an additional USB-C port to the chassis, but overall the ports remain the same.
It includes two USB-C ports, which power Data, DP, PD, and Thunderbolt 4, depending on the model, an HDMI 2.1 port, and a DC-in port, all located in the rear. On the left is a USB-A port, RJ45 Ethernet (2.
5G ) port, a 3.5mm audio jack, and an SD media card reader, and on the right are two USB-A ports. Users can find this configuration on the Intel model in particular.
I found the new Omen 16 to work well connected to Wi-Fi 6E 2×2, despite sharing a connection with several other devices in the space; especially several other gaming systems. Loading websites was quick and without issue.
Display Image used with permission by copyright holder While the display specifications on the new Omen 16 remain relatively unchanged year-over-year, the laptop does include some tweaks for comfort and safety. The display is a 16.1-inch monitor with a QHD maximum resolution, a 16:9 aspect ratio, and brightness between 250 and 300 nits depending on the model. It also features a 3-millisecond response time and a 100% sRGB color gamut. The flicker-free display supports refresh rate options of 60Hz, 144Hz, and 165Hz.
HP counts the addition of an auto-brightness sensor as its main upgrade to the new Omen 16 display. This feature allows the display brightness to adjust to its environment. I found this adjustment to be accurate as I moved from areas around the studio that were very dark to areas that had open, natural lighting and found no difference in how I experienced the display.
For an ISP panel, you’re not going to get that pop that you might from a different display type, like OLED, for example. However, the colors were consistent, and I found no glares or washed-out experiences in the different environments.
The display is also certified TUV Eyesafe for blue light for comfortable gameplay in dark settings.
Keyboard and trackpad Image used with permission by copyright holder The new Omen 16 also remains similar to the older model in terms of its keyboard and trackpad. Both models include a signature four-zone set-up for their RGB lighting. The keyboard has a per-key build to its RGB lighting. When users hit keys in one of the four zones: Left, right, up, or, down, it sets off the RGB color in that area. It makes for a unique lighting aesthetic.
The trackpad, which is a little wider on the new model, at 135 by 86 millimeters, features a one-zone lighting trigger, meaning one click of the trackpad will light up the entire keyboard.
Performance and battery life Image used with permission by copyright holder The biggest update on the new Omen 16 is its internals. HP explained its complete redesign of the thermal architecture after prior reviews noted the Omen 16 2021 was slightly noisy after being run for an extended time. Not enough to be overly annoying, but still noticeable.
Still, HP took the opportunity to address this in the new Omen 16, by adding a fourth thermal heat vent, fourth thermal radiator, and fifth thermal heat pipe to the laptop to aid in regulating heat, while helping to make the system be faster and quieter.
Users can also implement features in the accompanying Omen Gaming software to maximize the performance of the new Omen 16. The Omen Dynamic Power feature reads real-time workload information from the system’s CPU and GPU in three-second intervals to decide which components should get the most power at any given time.
When gaming, the feature can decipher between a more GPU-intensive game, such as Witcher or Red Dead Redemption , and an AI-focused game that might use more processor power, such as Stellaris, HP noted.
Image used with permission by copyright holder For power, the new Omen 16 packs a four-cell 70-watt-hour battery, which sounds surprisingly low, considering the original system featured a six-cell 83-watt-hour battery. I consider this to be a part of the brand’s power optimization of the laptop, or that the thermal redesign didn’t leave a lot of room for a bigger battery.
There were varied opinions on battery life on the original model, with testing its battery life at about 11 hours. I’ll be interested to see how the battery life on the new Omen 16 holds up in a long-term review.
The system is also accompanied by a 200-watt smart AC power adapter.
Price and availability The HP Omen 16 2022 will be available in the summer, starting at $1,200.
Editors' Recommendations Best HP laptop deals: Get a Windows laptop for $199 This midrange HP laptop beats the Dell XPS 15 in one important way HP Envy deals: HP’s most popular laptop starts at $550 ROG Zephyrus G16 vs. ROG Zephyrus M16: which to buy? Alienware x14 R2 and x16 hands-on review: XPS gaming laptops? Laptops Windows Reviews Computing Dell's G-series gaming laptops are meant to provide a budget-friendly option for gamers, especially when compared to their more expensive Alienware machines. But the new Dell G16-7620 looks to be a beast of a gaming laptop.
This a significant departure from past G-series machines. The previous-generation G15 was decent, but compared to the Alienware lineup, it lacked the best cooling, graphics, refresh rates, and other mainstays of high-end gaming laptops. The G16 appears to be different.
Computing Apple has finally kicked off the 2022 edition of its Worldwide Developers Conference. The main keynote of the conference, known as WWDC for short, will be streaming online, along with various breakout sessions, throughout the week.
The focus of the event was on the latest versions of Apple's operating systems, including iOS, iPadOS, MacOS, and WatchOS, and tvOS. A new MacBook Air powered by an M2 processor also made an appearance.
Watch a replay of the WWDC keynote WWDC 2022 - June 6 | Apple Deals Whether you're looking for laptop deals for work or school, or gaming laptop deals to play today's most popular games, you'll surely find a machine that fits your needs and budget if you browse Amazon. There's no shortage of discounts from the retailer, so it might take some time for you to narrow down your options. To help you find your next laptop, we've rounded up some of the best Amazon laptop deals that you can shop right now. You have to hurry if you don't want to miss out, as there's no telling how long these offers will last.
Today's best Amazon laptop deals HP Stream 14 -- $200, was $260 Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
