Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing News AMD might still have some next-gen GPUs left in the tank — but I don’t buy it By Jacob Roach Close Jacob Roach / Digital Trends AMD has said it’s done with new GPU dies, but a filing with the European Economic Commission (EEC ) suggests that Team Red could still launch graphics cards in its RX 7000 range.
The filing points to AMD releasing an RX 7600 XT sometime in the future, both in 12GB and 10GB variants. AMD’s Scott Herkelman says the RDNA 3 lineup is “complete,” so what gives? It comes down to the GPU dies.
Both Nvidia and AMD repurpose their GPU dies for multiple graphics cards. For example, the new RX 7800 XT and RX 7700 XT both use the Navi 32 chip, just different amounts of compute units. When AMD said the lineup was complete, it specifically referred to GPU dies. But we could still see variants of graphics cards with the same die.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends And, the RX 7600 is a prime candidate. A supercharged version of the card in the form of the RX 7600 XT would make sense, especially given the large gap in AMD’s current lineup. The RX 7600 retails for $270, while the next step up, the RX 7700 XT, runs $450.
Don’t believe the hype — the era of native resolution gaming isn’t over 4K gaming monitors are getting cheaper, but I still won’t buy one I bought Nvidia’s worst-value GPU, but I don’t regret it The problem is that the RX 7600 already uses the full Navi 33 chip. If we do see the RX 7600 XT, it will likely be based on the Navi 32 chip. We actually haven’t seen a graphics card using the base version of this die, only the XL variant in the RX 7700 XT and the XT variant in the RX 7800 XT. This would also make sense given the filing and the 12GB of memory that’s rumored to come with the card.
Too crowded AMD probably isn’t under a lot of pressure to release new GPUs, though. The company already has some of the best graphics cards on the market — the recent RX 7800 XT obliterates Nvidia’s RTX 4070 in a head-to-head battle.
The company doesn’t need a new graphics card, and releasing an RX 7600 XT could actually hurt the current lineup. With the RX 7800 XT, there was some backlash toward AMD given that the card performs about as well as last-gen’s RX 6800 XT. AMD is competing with itself, and that’s not a good thing when there’s a lot of last-gen stock to work through.
An RX 7600 XT would likely be caught in the same position. Last-gen’s RX 6700 XT has become the go-to graphics card at around $350, and a potential RX 7600 XT would probably come in around that price. Given what we’ve seen out of AMD this generation, it’s not hard to speculate that an RX 7600 XT would offer a similar level of performance.
But right now, all we can do is speculate. The EEC filing points to AMD potentially launching new graphics cards, but we’ve seen these filings in the past that haven’t turned into actual graphics cards you can buy. If we do see new graphics cards out of AMD, we likely won’t see them for a few months, given the recent launch of the RX 7700 XT and RX 7800 XT.
Editors' Recommendations Whatever you do, don’t buy an Nvidia GPU right now I’m scared of next-gen Nvidia GPUs, and you should be too I can’t get excited about AMD’s next version of FSR anymore I tested AMD’s RX 7800 XT against Nvidia’s RTX 4070, and there’s a clear winner Where in the world are all of AMD’s next-gen laptop GPUs? GPUs PC Gaming Tech News Computing AMD has just unveiled two new graphics cards aimed at gamers -- the Radeon RX 7800 XT and the RX 7700 XT. Set to rival some of the best graphics cards in this generation, the two GPUs are a way to bridge the gap in AMD's modest RDNA 3 lineup. AMD teases that both cards are suited for 1440p gaming, which could help them compete in the mainstream gaming market.
The prices are what stand out: the RX 7800 XT starts at $500, while the RX 7700 XT goes for $450. That significantly undercuts Nvidia's RTX 4070 at $600, though the RX 7700 XT is more expensive than the RTX 4060 Ti at $450. Nvidia could really use some competition, so let's hope that AMD's new GPUs will be powerful enough to make a dent in Nvidia's market domination.
Computing I knew when AMD announced the Ryzen 9 7945HX3D that it would be a great gaming laptop CPU. It was even more clear when AMD announced it would release first in the Asus ROG Strix Scar 17, which is one of the fastest gaming laptops you can buy. I've tested it, and it lives up to AMD's hype. But I still don't think you should buy it yet. Let me explain.
Between reviewing desktop CPUs like the Ryzen 7 7800X3D and the Asus ROG Strix Scar 17 itself (read our Asus Scar 17 review for more), this new chip didn't hold any surprises. It's AMD's fastest laptop CPU, bolstered by the company's remarkable 3D V-Cache to boost gaming performance. It's a known quantity.
Computing There are a lot of options when you're on the hunt for the best graphics card. In years past, you could look at a product name and get a general sense of where it landed in terms of performance, but times are changing. With bizarre value propositions, extra features that go beyond raw performance, and questionable naming conventions, GPUs are a lot more complex than they used to be.
I've reviewed every graphics card released over the last two years, covering two generations from both AMD and Nvidia, as well as Intel's first push into the discrete graphics market. Here are the only GPUs I'd even consider buying.
What to look for Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
