Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing News Someone tweaked AMD’s RX 7800 XT, and the results may surprise you By Alex Blake Close AMD’s RX 7800 XT graphics card handily beats Nvidia’s RTX 4070 , outperforming it in games and costing less to boot, with the GPU comparison falling firmly in AMD’s favor. The main drawback? Its power consumption is much higher. But it doesn’t have to be that way, as one YouTube channel has shown that undervolting the card could have a notable impact.
Gaming head-to-head The same performance for less cash When set up right out of the box, AMD’s card has a power draw of 263 watts, while Nvidia’s offering sips just 200 watts. If you’re concerned about your graphics card getting hot and heavy in operation — and spiking your electricity bill — the RTX 4070 is probably the better choice.
Yet Dutch YouTube channel Techtesters set out to see if it could do things differently. The channel undervolted the RX 7800 XT to 202 watts, bringing it down to the RTX 4070’s power consumption levels. The result? The AMD card matched the performance of Nvidia’s GPU across a range of games.
That’s significant because the AMD card costs $100 less than its Nvidia rival. It means you can get lower power consumption and equivalent performance and still save money by going with Team Red.
Nvidia may launch three new Super GPUs to fight back AMD AMD has another new GPU that it says can beat the RTX 4060 Ti I bought Nvidia’s worst-value GPU, but I don’t regret it Gaming head-to-head Previous Next 1 3 Techtesters Techtesters Techtesters Techtesters reviewed an overclocked Gigabyte RX 7800 XT Gaming OC that was pulling 286 watts of power by default. They decided to cap the power draw to 202 watts, while the clock speed was set to 2,220MHz — down from 2,540MHz and below the RTX 4070’s 2,360MHz.
In testing across 11 different games, the undervolted RX 7800 XT was 1% faster than the RTX 4070, with results ranging from a 21% advantage for AMD in Starfield to a 14% win for Nvidia in Spider-Man Remastered.
 Yet considering the lower price of the AMD card, trading blow-for-blow with the RTX 4070 is impressive.
When put against the stock version of the RX 7800 XT, the undervolted version was a little slower than the untouched card, with frame rates dipping anywhere from 4% in God of War to 19% in Starfield. Depending on the game you play, you might notice a sizeable drop or nothing at all.
The same performance for less cash Techtesters However, when put in context, the results are more impressive. The original RX 7800 XT used 40% more power but only resulted in an average of 9% better performance. Depending on the game, you might not notice the performance difference, but it’s much more likely you’ll feel the change in heat and noise.
Speaking of which, Techtesters noted that the undervolted card was quieter, dropping from 39 decibels to 32 decibels in use. In terms of temperatures, the GPU hot spot temperature dropped from 89 degrees to 83 degrees. It wasn’t all rosy, however, since the GPU core and memory temperatures both rose five or six degrees each.
Overall, the testing seems to suggest that the RX 7800 XT is a strong pick against the RTX 4070, even when it’s undervolted. By reducing the clock speeds and enacting a power limit, you can still get equivalent performance compared to Nvidia’s card, all for $100 less. If electricity is expensive where you live, the reduced power draw could save you even more money.
Editors' Recommendations I’m scared of next-gen Nvidia GPUs, and you should be too Why AMD’s biggest competitor is no longer Nvidia This new GPU connector may finally kill the melting 12VHPWR AMD might still have some next-gen GPUs left in the tank — but I don’t buy it Nvidia gave AMD’s RX 7800 XT a free win GPUs Tech News Computing With the release of the Radeon RX 7800 XT and RX 7700 XT, AMD finally set foot in the mainstream gaming sector with its RDNA 3 lineup. Nvidia, its biggest rival, which also makes some of the best graphics cards, was the first to release competing cards with similar performance -- at least on paper. But are Nvidia's options better than AMD's in this generation? The RX 7800 XT was, from the get-go, said to be the competitor to Nvidia's RTX 4070, but in reality, these GPUs differ both in price and performance. We've tested the RX 7800 XT and compared it to the RTX 4070, and we now know which of these two GPUs is the one to pick.
Pricing and availability Computing The rivalry between AMD, Nvidia, and Intel is exciting to watch at times. Which tech giant makes the best processors? What about graphics cards? This discourse is a bit of fun any PC enthusiast can have online, but too often, it devolves into something that can persuade buyers into bad purchases and push loyal fans into branded camps.
A little bit of competition between all three chipmakers is a good thing, but frankly, the amount of misinformation that stems from it makes life harder for most users. Here's why I'm sick of the never-ending online battle of AMD versus Intel versus Nvidia, and why you should be, too.
Misinformation and bias Computing AMD has just unveiled two new graphics cards aimed at gamers -- the Radeon RX 7800 XT and the RX 7700 XT. Set to rival some of the best graphics cards in this generation, the two GPUs are a way to bridge the gap in AMD's modest RDNA 3 lineup. AMD teases that both cards are suited for 1440p gaming, which could help them compete in the mainstream gaming market.
The prices are what stand out: the RX 7800 XT starts at $500, while the RX 7700 XT goes for $450. That significantly undercuts Nvidia's RTX 4070 at $600, though the RX 7700 XT is more expensive than the RTX 4060 Ti at $450. Nvidia could really use some competition, so let's hope that AMD's new GPUs will be powerful enough to make a dent in Nvidia's market domination.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
