Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Features Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Why AMD’s biggest competitor is no longer Nvidia By Monica J. White Close Both AMD and Nvidia make some of the best graphics cards , which, naturally, puts these two companies in a position where they’re always competing. It’s not just any old rivalry, though. AMD is the constant underdog, and Nvidia is the market leader that always comes out on top in some way.
A skip, not a leap The price doesn’t always add up RDNA 2 or RDNA 3? It’s almost the same thing But is Nvidia truly the one that AMD is competing against? No, not really. In fact, the fiercest competition for AMD’s RDNA 3 graphics cards comes from AMD itself. Here’s why that’s bad news for the GPU maker.
A skip, not a leap Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Do you know how people sometimes use the term “generational leap” to describe a huge performance boost from one gen of hardware to the next? Well, for some of AMD’s RDNA 3 lineup, calling it a skip would be more fitting. It’s certainly no big leap, and that becomes more and more true the further we move down the list of AMD’s current-gen cards.
I’m scared of next-gen Nvidia GPUs, and you should be too How Nvidia and AMD could make Windows laptops feel like MacBooks Nvidia’s RTX Super might be a massive boost at no extra cost Looking at our own testing of the RX 7900 XTX and the RX 7900 XT , there’s a marked improvement over the previous generation, but it’s not mind-blowing. The RX 7900 XT ends up about 14% faster than the RX 6950 XT, while the RX 7900 XTX comes out with a 26% lead.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends It’s not like Nvidia’s RTX 4090 , which delivered an up to 68% performance boost over the RTX 3090 Ti , and a whopping 89% increase over the RTX 3090. The RTX 4080, while less impressive, still has AMD beat with a 42% lead over the RTX 3080 Ti.
If that 14% to 26% lead seems mild by comparison, then the RX 7800 XT won’t floor you, either. Depending on the title, the GPU is around 5% to 10% faster than the RX 6800 XT. It’s still significantly better than what Nvidia offers at the same price range, though. The RTX 4060 Ti 16GB comes with the same list price, but its performance is disappointing due, in part, to the narrow memory bus. Sure, there are games where it’s faster than the RTX 3060 Ti, but there are titles where it’s actually slower, too. It’s one of the worst GPUs in this whole generation.
The 7700 XT actually offers more performance than its predecessor, the RX 6700 XT, beating the RDNA 2 card by around 22%. It takes a back seat to Nvidia’s RTX 4070 , though, which is up to 35% faster than the 3070 Ti at 4K.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Lastly, we’ve got the RX 7600 , which is actually one of the top GPUs for 1080p gaming right now. It’s certainly a better offering than the Nvidia counterpart, but it gets cannibalized by its last-gen cards, the RX 6600 and the RX 6600 XT. While it’s between 30% and 12% faster, it comes in at a very similar price point.
It’s quite telling that AMD’s greatest gen-to-gen gains come from its most budget-friendly GPU. AMD is not really competing at the high end these days, and while that’s not necessarily a bad thing, it’s clear that the generational leap just didn’t happen between RDNA 2 and RDNA 3.
Some of Nvidia’s GPUs suffer from the same problem, with the lower-end and midrange cards just not offering the kind of juice you’d expect to see for the price. However, Nvidia has an edge over AMD — its last-gen cards are often not worth buying anymore.
In AMD’s case, it’s the exact opposite.
The price doesn’t always add up Jacob Roach / Digital Trends If you only consider performance, there’d be no reason not to choose RDNA 3 over RDNA 2. Sure, the gains might be small, but they’re still gains. You might as well get a few extra frames out of your new GPU, right? Except it’s not that simple, because the price also needs to be taken into consideration.
There are plenty of RDNA 2 graphics cards still left in stock, and there’s nothing wrong with them. From the RX 6600 to the RX 6950 XT , there are plenty of options for more budget-conscious PC builders to explore. Even the high-end RX 6950 XT only costs , and it’s readily available at various retailers and delivers solid 4K performance in AAA games as long as ray tracing is not a factor.
When it comes to cards like the RX 6600, RX 6600 XT, and RX 6650 XT, the scale tilts in favor of the current-gen RX 7600. All of these GPUs range from $210 to $250 after price cuts, and the RX 7600 is the best of them all, although not by any large margin. Spending just $70 extra gets you the RX 6700 XT, which is a noteworthy upgrade over the 7600.
As we climb up the ladder, it makes less and less sense to shop RDNA 3.
Seeing as the gains are small between the 7800 XT and the 6800, and the latter costs just , a more budget-oriented PC build might benefit from going with the last-gen card. The RX 6800 XT has the same price tag as the 7800 XT, although — to AMD’s credit — it launched at $650.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends The real problem for AMD’s lineup are the RX 6900 XT and the RX 6950 XT, priced at and , respectively. Both of those cards are faster than the 7800 XT, and the price difference isn’t massive.
When it comes to the RX 7900 XTX and the RX 7900 XT, they’re both in a tough spot. They’re faster than their last-gen counterparts, sure, but is that increase worth $200 to $400? For most people, it isn’t.
Those who are building a new PC or buying a prebuilt one in 2023 may often choose RDNA 3, but with the prices the way they are, RDNA 2 remains a popular choice. And if you already own an RDNA 2 GPU, there’s little to no reason to upgrade.
This isn’t necessarily a bad thing for AMD. After all, whether the sales go to the RX 6950 XT or the 7900 XTX, it’s a net gain for Team Red. Yet, it’s still missing out on potential sales that Nvidia is raking in due to those generational leaps.
RDNA 2 or RDNA 3? It’s almost the same thing Jacob Roach / Digital Trends AMD’s latest GPUs are powerful, and in many cases, they deliver solid performance per dollar when compared to the outrageously overpriced Nvidia offerings. However, when you only take AMD into the equation, there just aren’t that many reasons to switch from RDNA 2 to RDNA 3.
The performance, while better, is not going to make or break your games. AMD has also mostly kept the same amount of memory on each card, so even the recent uproar around VRAM in games is not a factor here. The RX 7900 XTX is an outlier with 24GB memory, but the RX 6950 XT had 16GB, which is still plenty for AAA gaming. These graphics cards are an improvement, but they face a lot of competition from their last-gen siblings.
RDNA 3 lacks that something special that pushes gamers to pick it instead of Nvidia and, more importantly, instead of RDNA 2. While I’d still recommend the RX 7800 XT as one of the best GPUs in terms of value, I’m not going to tell you to upgrade your RX 6700 XT. There’s simply no need.
Nvidia has AMD beat here, and it’s not just because of these gen-to-gen improvements. It’s also because of DLSS 3 , which generates entire frames instead of pixels and can propel an RTX 4070 to beat the RTX 4090 in gaming scenarios. More importantly, it’s only available in RTX 40-series graphics cards, and I bet Nvidia’s been making bank just on DLSS 3 alone. The GPUs no longer need to be that impressive when they can be artificially boosted to appear better than they actually are.
AMD has FSR 2.0 and even FSR 3.0, but it’s not locked to a specific generation of cards. That’s nice of AMD, but it gives little incentive to upgrade, which means it’s shooting itself in the foot a bit here. RDNA 3 comes with some other upgrades, such as AV1 encoding and decoding or support for DisplayPort 2.1, as well as improved AI capabilities and a (slight) step up in ray tracing, but none of that adds up to what Nvidia offers with DLSS 3.
I still believe that AMD is a much more competitive option around the $250 to $500 mark, and that’s good news for Team Red. If only it could shed some more of that leftover RDNA 2 stock, the current-gen cards might shine by comparison. Right now, while solid, they really tend to blend in with their last-gen counterparts, so if you already have RDNA 2, you might as well sit this generation out.
Editors' Recommendations Nvidia’s new GPUs could be right around the corner Nvidia RTX 4090 prices are skyrocketing as stocks run seriously low Why it’s a surprisingly good time to buy a GPU right now Nvidia may launch three new Super GPUs to fight back AMD AMD has another new GPU that it says can beat the RTX 4060 Ti Features GPUs Computing The never-ending debate of AMD versus Nvidia has never been more of a close call than it is right now. With both manufacturers putting out some of the best graphics cards on the market, it's hard to decide whether Team Red or Team Green is superior right now. It's all about choosing what's important to you and weighing it against what else is on the table.
Regardless of personal preference, there are a few things that Nvidia still does better, and that's despite the fact that AMD has caught up a lot in recent years. Here are some of the reasons why Nvidia still maintains a commanding lead over AMD in many ways.
Performance Computing When you look at some of the best graphics cards of today, it's easy to forget that Nvidia and AMD (and more recently, Intel) weren't always the only players in the GPU game. While both AMD and Nvidia have committed their fair share of GPU blunders, they're not the only two brands behind some of the worst GPUs of all time.
Let's take a look at some of the graphics cards that will make you appreciate the current GPU landscape, and yes, even including cards that are borderline mistakes. (Hello, RTX 4060 Ti.) Here are the GPUs that did it terribly, terribly wrong, even though each had something interesting or innovative to bring to the table.
Computing Upgrading to a new graphics card can be a hassle, and it has been even more difficult ever since the GPU shortage. Today, there are way too many models to choose from, and keeping track of prices is not easy. In an effort to make things a bit simpler, Newegg has announced a new trade-in program. The online retailer is offering customers a deal in which they send in their existing eligible GPU and receive a trade-in credit amount toward the purchase of a new qualifying graphics card.
According to Amir Asadibagheri, product manager of customer experience for Newegg, “the benefit of our trade-in program is the ease to send a used graphics card and buy a new one all within the same platform and avoiding the hassle of selling through a secondary market.” Newegg has given a list of all Nvidia and AMD graphics cards that are eligible, along with an estimated trade-in value. Notably, the trade-in is limited to Nvidia’s RTX series and AMD’s Radeon 5000 series and beyond.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
