Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing News Asus’ new RTX 4090 shattered GPU overclocking records, and you’ll be able to buy it soon By Monica J. White Close If you thought that the RTX 4090 was already the best we’ll see in this generation, Asus is here to prove you wrong. Nearly a year after the initial launch of Nvidia’s top graphics card , Asus is about to release the ROG Matrix GeForce RTX 4090 — a one-of-a-kind GPU that already has a new world record under its belt.
The GPU is vastly different from a regular RTX 4090 — the power delivery system, cooling, and binning process have all received a significant boost. The most visible change lies in the custom 360mm radiator that comes with the ROG Matrix, made to support a liquid cooling system. Aside from the huge radiator, the GPU was also equipped with a custom cold plate that comes attached to the GPU die, memory chips, and VRM section.
Asus Asus has also opted to use liquid metal instead of thermal paste, increasing thermal conductivity in order to keep this beast under control. Liquid metal is challenging to use in GPUs, as you really don’t want it coming in contact with other components.
To prevent disaster, Asus applied UV resin around the GPU die and also added two extra protective layers between the die itself and the card’s printed circuit board (PCB) to ensure that the liquid metal wouldn’t spill over. As a result of these changes, Asus claims that the card can be installed vertically instead of just horizontally, according to VideoCardz.
The wait is almost over!😎 Count down to the official launch of our flagship graphics card – the ROG Matrix GeForce RTX 4090. 🔥 🗓️Save the date &amp; tune in LIVE: https://t.co/aIldsPMg5B 🔴Sept 19th, 9:00 AM | New York 🔴Sept 19th, 9:00 PM | Taipei pic.twitter.com/EjcN5CLCU6 &mdash; ROG North America (@ASUS_ROGNA) September 15, 2023 Some enthusiasts already got their hands on the Asus ROG Matrix RTX 4090, and as a result, the GPU has already participated in setting a new world record. It was overclocked to a massive 4,230MHz. However, don’t expect to hit these clock speeds at home — the overclockers had to tear the built-in cooler apart and leverage liquid nitrogen instead. We’ve seen liquid nitrogen used in breaking world records before, such as when the Intel Core i9-13900K processor was pushed past a clock speed of 9GHz.
Here’s why I’m glad Nvidia might kill its most powerful GPU Did Nvidia just fix the RTX 4090’s melting power connectors? This mysterious Nvidia GPU is an absolute monstrosity — and we just got another look If Nvidia doesn’t release an RTX 4090 Ti , this will probably be the most powerful graphics card of this generation. However, this GPU will need a massive PC case in order to comfortably fit, and any and all external cooling is always welcome.
We’re not sure how much this new RTX 4090 is going to cost, but “a lot” is a pretty safe bet. Asus is hosting a launch event on September 19, and while it’s unclear whether that is also the release date of the GPU, it seems quite likely.
Editors' Recommendations I tested AMD’s RX 7800 XT against Nvidia’s RTX 4070, and there’s a clear winner Nvidia’s peace offering isn’t working Forget the RTX 4060 — here are 5 GPUs you should buy instead Nvidia’s RTX 4060 might not be such a disappointment after all Why Nvidia’s brand new GPU performs worse than integrated graphics News GPUs Tech News Computing Over the past few months, we’ve seen frequent reports of melting power connectors on Nvidia’s RTX 4090 graphics cards, leading to a wave of worry and speculation that something is seriously amiss. Now, a user has claimed their cable has melted in a dramatic new way -- and it could suggest that the headaches are far from over for Nvidia.
According to Shiftyeyes67k on Reddit, the 12VHPWR cable that came with their RTX 4090 GPU melted on the power supply (PSU) side. In other words, the problem occurred where the cable connectors fed into the power supply, not where they met the graphics card, as has been the case with every other report of melting 12VHPWR connectors.
Computing Nvidia has just quietly announced the official release date of the RTX 4060. The GPU is coming out on June 29 and will be priced at $299.
Although performance-wise, the RTX 4060 can't hope to compete against some of the best graphics cards, it's still one of Nvidia's most important GPUs. Can it repeat the success of its predecessors? Computing It looks like Nvidia's upcoming RTX 4060 might arrive sooner than expected. Although initial predictions put its arrival sometime in July, Nvidia may still launch it before June is over.
With a questionable set of specifications, but a highly affordable price, will the RTX 4060 become one of this year's best GPUs? Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
