Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Features Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Whatever you do, don’t buy an Nvidia GPU right now By Jacob Roach Close Jacob Roach / Digital Trends If you’re trying to build or upgrade a PC, now is the best time to buy many different components.
Black Friday brings huge discounts on parts, making it the best time of the year to stretch your dollar the furthest. But this year, there’s one important part you should wait on: a new Nvidia graphics card.
A Super refresh incoming? What if they’re wrong? No harm in waiting That’s not because Nvidia’s latest GPUs are bad — they’re some of the best graphics cards you can buy — but because we’re likely on the brink of a major refresh to Nvidia’s current lineup of GPUs, and the deals we’re seeing now will probably become the norm in just a few months.
A Super refresh incoming? Jacob Roach / Digital Trends For weeks now, we’ve been hearing about a Super refresh to Nvidia’s RTX 40-series GPUs. Rumor has it that Nvidia is gearing up to release an RTX 4080 Super, RTX 4070 Ti Super, and an RTX 4070 Super to replace the RTX 4080, RTX 4070 Ti, and RTX 4070, respectively.
What reviews didn’t say about the Steam Deck OLED Nvidia’s next GPU might follow Apple’s lead — and not in a good way ‘Compact Mode’ can’t fix the Xbox app. Here’s what could Rumors of new GPUs pop up constantly, but the refresh was lent a lot of credibility after Nvidia announced a “special address” at CES 2024. Even prior to this announcement, leakers claimed the cards would arrive in January 2024. Nvidia hasn’t said anything official on the matter yet, and it likely won’t. However, there’s good reason to believe some sort of refresh is on the way (more on that later). In addition, VideoCardz reports that board partners have already been notified about the upcoming launch.
In the context of Black Friday, the big reason a Super refresh is so important is that these cards are suspected to arrive at the same price as the cards they’re replacing. That will inevitably push prices down for the base RTX 4080, RTX 4070 Ti , and RTX 4070, as retailers sell them off to create space for the new Super models. On top of that, we’ve already seen prices for these base models drop over the last few months, and a Super refresh could push them down further.
All three cards are rumored to come with the same memory configuration as their base models but with a huge bump to core count. Leakers claim the bump will be around 5% for the RTX 4080 Super, up to 22% for the RTX 4070 Super. Even if the cards don’t provide a huge performance uplift, the effect they’ll have on current GPU prices is clear.
What if they’re wrong? Jacob Roach / Digital Trends I hear you — what if the hivemind of Twitter and YouTube GPU leakers are wrong about the upcoming refresh? It certainly wouldn’t be the first time. The big deal for an RTX 40-series Super refresh isn’t that we’re hearing leaks alone. It’s that we’re hearing leaks and it would make a lot of sense for Nvidia to extend the lifecycle of its Ada Lovelace generation.
According to Nvidia’s roadmap, Ada Lovelace-next — currently suspected to be the Blackwell generation of RTX 50-series GPUs — isn’t expected to arrive until 2025. That breaks the release cadence we’ve seen from Nvidia since 2014 with the release of GTX 900-series graphics cards. The company normally introduces a new generation every two years, but if Nvidia’s roadmap is true, it will be three years between the release of RTX 40-series and RTX 50-series.
That leaves next year wide open for Nvidia, and it doesn’t have a lot of GPUs to release in its RTX 40-series. We’ve seen the full stack, it seems, and that’s true across both desktops and laptops. The only possibility is an RTX 4050 for gamers on a strict budget, but we haven’t heard anything about that card yet.
It makes sense for Nvidia to extend the life of its RTX 40-series generation, not only due to the timing of next-gen GPUs, but also from what we’re seeing with GPU prices now. The RTX 4080 , for example, is seeing price drops, but it’s still around $1,100 at its cheapest.
AMD’s RX 7900 XTX offers similar performance, and you can find it for around $950. Similarly, prices for the RTX 4070 have dropped from $600 to around $550, but AMD’s competitive RX 7800 XT is available for $500, and even less on sale.
From the competitive pricing we’ve already seen, it’s clear Nvidia doesn’t want to push the prices of its GPUs further down. So, what do you do instead? You release more powerful versions at the same price. This isn’t a new tactic for Nvidia, either. Back with RTX 20-series GPUs, the company quickly issued a Super refresh to maintain a competitive edge during a relatively disappointing generation of graphics cards.
I need to point out that all of this context doesn’t confirm that a Super refresh is on the way. It just lends more credibility to the leaks we’ve been seeing. There’s no harm in waiting a couple of months to see if the rumors manifest as products, either. From the deals we’re seeing now, it doesn’t seem like anyone is going to miss out on a big GPU discount.
No harm in waiting Jacob Roach / Digital Trends If we were seeing massive discounts on GPUs right now, there wouldn’t be much sense in waiting a couple of months for a potential Super refresh. We’re not, though. It’s possible we could see a couple of flash deals, but even among the best Black Friday GPU deals , most cards are selling for around the same price they have been for the last several weeks.
I’ve spotted a few discounts on the RTX 4080 , and they’re only for overclocked cards that already sold above list price. It’s possible to score a good deal on a high-end card this year, but if you just want an RTX 4080, you can get one cheaper with a card that isn’t on sale. For example, is part of Newegg’s Black Friday sale for $1,250. However, the is also available for $1,150, and it isn’t on sale.
The same is true for the RTX 4070.
 This card is supposed to retail for $600, but Nvidia dropped the price to $550 in response to AMD’s RX 7800 XT. You can commonly find models at that price, sale or not. I’ve spotted one RTX 4070 for $520, and that’s a solid deal. But $30 isn’t enough to tip the scales when there’s a good chance the price will drop lower in a couple of months.
Now, this approach isn’t right for all Nvidia GPUs this Black Friday. I’m focused on the RTX 4070, RTX 4070 Ti, and RTX 4080 here. If you’re looking for a deal on a lower-end card, or a last-gen RTX 30-series GPU, you might be able to track down a good deal. If you’re interested in one of the cards rumored for a Super refresh, though, it’s best to wait until we see what Nvidia has in store next year.
Editors' Recommendations Don’t wait for new GPUs. It’s safe to buy a gaming laptop now 5 things you should never do with your gaming laptop Don’t believe the hype — the era of native resolution gaming isn’t over I made an entire PC build for the price of one Nvidia GPU Whatever you do, don’t buy a MacBook Pro right now Features GPUs PC Gaming Computing Getting a good deal on a GPU is all about timing. Buy at the wrong time, and you'll end up overpaying.
But I have good news for you. I've been closely monitoring GPU prices as we move through the final quarter of the year, and I'm seeing some really solid deals out there, with many of the best graphics cards coming in under their retail price. If you've been thinking of buying a graphics card, now is turning out to be a surprisingly good time.
Why is now the time to buy a GPU? Computing We've known for months that Alan Wake 2 will be one of the most demanding games on PC, but new details show just how taxing the upcoming title from developer Remedy will actually be. According to a now-deleted tweet from a Remedy employee, somewhere around 23% of PC players won't be able to play the game.
To be clear, the employee didn't say that number explicitly. In response to the outcry over the Alan Wake 2 system requirements, the employee shared that only cards with mesh shaders are officially supported, meaning any Nvidia 10-series or AMD RX 5000-series GPUs or older aren't officially supported.
Computing There hasn't been a lot of positive reception to Nvidia's graphics cards this generation. There's no doubt that Nvidia's RTX 40-series GPUs are among the best graphics cards you can buy, but with disappointing generational improvements, higher pricing, and reliance on features like DLSS 3, it's easy to write off a new graphics card when Nvidia releases one.
But there's one Goldilocks graphics card from Nvidia's current generation that's the right choice for a lot of PC gamers. It delivers all of the best parts of Nvidia's cutting-edge generation and ignores the insane pricing and disappointing generational uplifts. And now, months after launch, prices have dropped, making it an even better value. That GPU is Nvidia's RTX 4070.
Not a warm reception Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
