Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Guides How to set up multiple monitors for PC gaming By Tyler Lacoma Close Multiple monitors make a huge difference in productivity and gaming. Two or even three displays give you a lot more screen real estate to work with, but you need to know how to set up multiple monitors. In this guide, we’re going to show you how.
Check all your monitors Check your graphics card Hook everything up and turn it on Change settings as necessary Important note: game compatibility FAQ Difficulty Duration What You Need Desktop PC or laptop Multiple monitors and the cables to attach them Before getting started, keep in mind that all displays are different, so you may need to do some individual troubleshooting. Setting up multiple monitors for PC gaming is usually a matter of just plugging everything in, but there are a few key settings you need to change before that.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Check all your monitors We’re not going to list any required monitors for this multiscreen project, but we will point out the obvious: Try to choose newer monitors that are all the same model.
Ensuring that the monitors are the same model makes it very easy to measure and plan for them, as well as set them up and maintain them properly. Without the right height adjustments, you may also struggle to get different monitors precisely parallel with each other. At the bare minimum, it’s nice to have monitors that all have similar ports. These days, that probably means that all your monitors should have either HDMI or DisplayPort connections (yes, there’s also DVI, but that’s less likely).
You also want all your monitors to have support for the same features, such as graphic syncing. Your game may look seriously weird if your monitors have different display features and support options.
Finally, you will want to make sure that your graphics card has enough connections for your monitors. For example, if you are using three 4K monitors , you will want to make sure your GPU has three HDMI ports for use.
You can mix and match ports if necessary — say, two HDMI and a DisplayPort — but again, it’s much easier if you just have several of the same monitor models. If you don’t have a dedicated (not integrated) graphics card or don’t know anything about it, that should probably be your first step before setting up your set of monitors.
A dedicated graphics card is basically a necessity for most multimonitor setups.
Note: There are splitters you can use if you have a great GPU but only one or two compatible ports. This isn’t quite as optimal, but it’s a common case.
Nvidia Check your graphics card There’s good news here — today’s GPUs are typically produced with the understanding that some people will want multiple monitors, so if you’ve recently bought a GPU, support is included out of the box. That makes things much easier than it was in the old days. However, if you are buying a graphics card specifically for this project, you can make extra sure that it has the right kind and number of ports. You should also confirm particular multiscreen features (see directly below): AMD : AMD’s graphics cards have supported multiple monitors for several generations now and even broke ground with multimonitor Eyefinity technology, which was introduced with support for up to three simultaneous monitors on one GPU. Eyefinity ensures that the image is properly spread across all connected screens and ensures that the bezels don’t cover up any important details. It’s a very effective setting that’s necessary for a quality gaming experience. Note that Eyefinity is friendly with DisplayPort connections, so those are the ports to look for in your monitors.
Nvidia : Nvidia’s solution is called Surround , and your Nvidia GPU needs to have it. Like Eyefinity, Surround supports multiple monitors as well as 3D gaming. Surround works with all standard monitor connections. You don’t need Surround to use multiple monitors with an Nvidia graphics card, though.
If you’re stuck with your current GPU and it’s not everything you hoped it to be, there are adapters for technology like Eyefinity that can help you MacGyver a solution together.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Hook everything up and turn it on Step 1: Plug everything in first, double-check your ports to make sure they are the right ones, and then turn it on. You will only need to use one screen for setup, so don’t freak out about how the other screens look right now.
Step 2: At this point, you may run into some problems, such as the other screen not connecting properly or having very obvious visual issues that make it impossible to use. That’s alright! We suggest consulting our troubleshooting guide on multimonitor setups to check out what’s going wrong and how to put it right again. Sometimes, it’s simply a matter of finding the right cable or updating some drivers.
How to use a blue light filter on your PC or Mac 4K gaming monitors are getting cheaper, but I still won’t buy one The best 4K gaming monitors of 2023: ultrawides, high refresh rates, and more Image used with permission by copyright holder Change settings as necessary The best place to start tweaking your gaming setup is your GPU control panel. It’s time to take advantage of that beefy graphics processor, which means skipping any operating system settings.
Most major manufacturers of graphic chipsets, including AMD and Nvidia, have custom control panels that will allow you to set up multiple monitors as well as a host of other settings.
For AMD, here’s how to go into settings and make sure Eyefinity is adjusted properly.
And here’s how to get started with Nvidia chips. If you experience a low frame rate, aliasing, or any other anomalies during gameplay, go back to the GPU control panel and make further adjustments as needed.
Important note: game compatibility The majority of modern games are well-suited to multimonitor gameplay, but that's not so much the case with classic titles.
There are plenty of up-to-date lists of multimonitor games online that include just about every current popular game, as well as a surprising number of titles that date back to a decade or more. That’s because game designers are still way ahead of graphics card manufacturers, so you can run many older games on your new multimonitor system. Playing your old games on a dual-screen setup can finally be more than a dream. Just remember that support isn’t universal, and it varies by title, especially for indie and some older games.
The online lists of games that are compatible with mult-imonitor features are updated regularly. If you look at a list, you’ll see that it includes a mix of the most recent games and quite a few from the past decade. In fact, games have probably been advancing in this capacity more than graphics cards in the past. So there’s a good chance that you’ll get lucky and find your favorite game on a list of compatible titles. Just remember that not all indie or older games have full support for multimonitor play.
FAQ How many monitors can you use? This depends on the graphics chip you have powering your PC. If you're using onboard graphics with an Intel or AMD CPU, then you're likely going to be limited to just two monitors at a time. However, if you have a discrete Nvidia graphics card, you can run four monitors at a time, and AMD graphics cards from the past decade have mostly been capable of supporting six monitors at the same time.
You may not be able to run all these monitors at native resolution and refresh rate if your GPU isn't that powerful, but for top cards you can have loads of displays going at the same time.
Do you have to use two of the same monitor? No, but it does help. You are more likely to run into multi-monitor problems with two or more displays of different types, and you may have difficulty lining them up so there isn't a big drop or gap between your monitors. The different bezel shapes and sizes may also prove distracting during use – although you will likely get used to it over time.
That said, you can run different monitors at different resolutions and refresh rates, with entirely different frames. The writer of this article, Jon Martindale, still runs a 15 year old Dell monitor next to his more modern gaming monitor, and they work great together for boosting productivity.
Editors' Recommendations How to calibrate your monitor to make it better for free All ray tracing games on PC: AMD Radeon and Nvidia RTX ray tracing Level up your gaming setup with this 32-inch 4K monitor and save $200 The best curved monitors for 2023 How to measure your PC’s power use, and why it matters Gaming How-To GPUs How-To Guides Computing A dead pixel can be a huge pain, whether it's on your smartphone, desktop monitor, or laptop. Fortunately, even though a dead pixel isn't a great sign of monitor health, there are ways you can sometimes bring that pixel back to life.
Computing If you're new to ChromeOS or haven't had a need to print from a Chromebook yet, don't worry -- it's easy. Google designed Chromebooks to simplify computing while keeping these low-cost devices powerful and versatile enough for most daily needs.
Generally speaking, the process is about the same as it is with any other computer. If you have any trouble, it's also possible to fall back on the Android subsystem built into modern Chromebooks. Android enjoys better support from printer manufacturers than ChromeOS.
Gaming If you’re looking for the perfect gift for a fellow gamer, you can’t go wrong with gifting a game on Steam. Gifting games used to be relatively easy, as long as you had an email address, but today you can only give games to Steam members who are on your friend list.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
