Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing News Intel’s new integrated graphics could rival discrete GPUs By Monica J. White Close Intel Intel has just announced an interesting update to its upcoming Meteor Lake chips : The integrated graphics are about to receive an unprecedented boost, allowing them to rival low-end, discrete GPUs. Now equipped with hardware-supported ray tracing , these chips have a good chance of becoming the best processors if you’re not buying a discrete graphics card. Performance gains are huge, and it’s not just the gamers who stand to benefit.
The information comes from a Graphics Deep Dive presentation hosted by Intel fellow Tom Petersen, well-known to the GPU market for working on Intel Arc graphics cards.
 This time, instead of discrete graphics, Petersen focused on the integrated GPU (iGPU) inside the upcoming Meteor Lake chip. Petersen explained the improvements at an architectural level, introducing the new graphics as Intel Xe-LPG.
For the first time, Intel is adding hardware ray tracing to its integrated graphics chip, and Petersen claims that it’s going to be some impressive ray tracing indeed. The chip is going to come with eight hardware RT units, which will enable it to perform ray tracing in real time. To show off the tech, Petersen played a demo of the new UL Solar Bay benchmark that was locked to 60 frames per second (fps). This was a Vulkan demo , and although it’s fairly hard to see based on a recording, Petersen explained that the computer shaders in Meteor Lake work to simulate light particles and create hardware reflections with VulkanRT.
Nvidia may launch three new Super GPUs to fight back AMD Intel’s new Arc driver can boost your performance by up to 119% The worst GPUs of all time: loud, disappointing, uninspired For gamers, this could be exciting news — although it’s hard to imagine an iGPU doing any serious ray tracing work in modern games, given the fact that even some of the best discrete graphics cards can struggle with it. Petersen pointed out that content creators and producers may enjoy the new hardware support just as much.
Intel For instance, those who use Intel’s Embree software will find GPU acceleration, including hardware ray tracing, inside Embree. In addition, Intel’s testing shows that Meteor Lake will be between 2 to 3 times faster in hardware ray tracing in Blender than Raptor Lake was. Intel, in general, seems eager to revamp the ray tracing experience on iGPUs going forward, so future improvements are likely.
Aside from ray tracing, the iGPU in Meteor Lake sounds impressive indeed. To make improvements possible, Intel went all-in on improving the architectural efficiency of the Arc graphics chip, making it wider and dedicating more silicon to the iGPU compared to Intel Raptor Lake. It also improved clock speeds across the board, making the chip faster at every voltage. Petersen explained that at any particular frequency, Meteor Lake will consume less power, and conversely, at every voltage, it’ll be able to put out higher clock speeds. Going forward, the iGPU inside Meteor Lake will sport eight Xe-cores, meaning a total of 128 vector units, which is a significant improvement over the 96 vector units found in Raptor Lake.
Up until now, ray tracing has been something reserved for higher-end discrete graphics cards.
 While it’s hard to expect miracles from an integrated chip, one thing is clear — both Intel and AMD are serious about making their one-chip solutions more viable, and that bodes well for the future of lightweight laptops.
We’ve seen some impressive performance out of the new chips, as well.
PCGamer’s Jacob Ridley demoed Dying Light 2 on the integrated graphics, saying they offered “perfectly playable” performance in the game at 1080p (though with some significant help from Intel’s XeSS). Intel’s Tom Peterson told Ridley that the iGPU is “close to a 3050,” which is impressive indeed.
Editors' Recommendations Nvidia’s new GPUs could be right around the corner Intel surprise launched a new graphics card, but it doesn’t make any sense Intel’s next GPU just leaked, and it looks like a sub-$200 card worth buying Thunderbolt 5 may help bring back external GPUs, Intel says I’m fed up with the AMD vs. Nvidia vs. Intel discourse, and you should be too News GPUs Intel Tech News Computing In June, we reported on the clobbering GPUs had taken in sales, even with some of the best graphics cards becoming available. Now, things are finally starting to turn around, with the latest market report showing signs of growth over the last few months despite it being a traditionally weak time of year for graphics cards.
The scoop comes from Jon Peddie Research, which has released its latest report on the graphics card market. While year-to-year figures are pretty grim, this past quarter showed a lot of promise. In the second quarter of 2023, GPU shipments increased by 11.6%. Despite this recovery, the market still saw a 27% decrease year-to-year. This includes all platforms and all types of GPUs. For desktop GPUs, the yearly losses are even worse, with a 36% decrease from the same time last year, although desktop add-in boards (AIBs) increased by 2.9%.
Computing AMD has just unveiled two new graphics cards aimed at gamers -- the Radeon RX 7800 XT and the RX 7700 XT. Set to rival some of the best graphics cards in this generation, the two GPUs are a way to bridge the gap in AMD's modest RDNA 3 lineup. AMD teases that both cards are suited for 1440p gaming, which could help them compete in the mainstream gaming market.
The prices are what stand out: the RX 7800 XT starts at $500, while the RX 7700 XT goes for $450. That significantly undercuts Nvidia's RTX 4070 at $600, though the RX 7700 XT is more expensive than the RTX 4060 Ti at $450. Nvidia could really use some competition, so let's hope that AMD's new GPUs will be powerful enough to make a dent in Nvidia's market domination.
Computing Intel has just made a slew of exciting announcements regarding to its Arc Alchemist GPUs, which are some of the best graphics cards for a more budget-oriented build. Since the launch of its flagship GPU, the Arc A770, Intel has been hard at work releasing frequent fixes to optimize the performance. Now, over 30 driver updates later, Intel is talking about the boost in games its GPUs have received. It's also ushering in a brand-new open-source tool.
Upon the launch of Intel's discrete graphics cards, it was clear that while Arc GPUs were solid in DirectX 12 games, they lagged behind in titles that use DirectX 11 and DirectX 9. Now, Intel claims that the latest Arc drivers bring major improvements in that regard. It showed its own benchmarks in various games to prove that things are different now, all based on testing with an Arc A750 GPU.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
