Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing News Intel’s next GPU just leaked, and it looks like a sub-$200 card worth buying By Monica J. White Close Geizhals / ASRock A long-forgotten Intel Arc GPU just made another reappearance, and this time around, it might actually be for real.
Intel’s Arc A580 popped up on Geizhals , an Austrian price comparison site, and it’s even available in two different models. While the Arc A580 doesn’t have what it takes to compete with some of the best graphics cards , it could turn out to be a solid budget-friendly option if priced appropriately.
The Intel Arc A580 was announced what feels like forever ago. Intel mentioned it several times prior to the launch of its A770 and A750 , and it was included in the marketing materials for the Arc A770, Arc A750, and Arc 380. It always seemed like a good middle ground between those three GPUs, bridging the gap between the top of the lineup and the entry-level A380. But it never materialized, and Intel hasn’t said a word about it since.
It wasn’t a stretch to assume that the card was quietly canceled, and yet, here it is. The ASRock Arc A580 Challenger OC was spotted by frequent Twitter leaker momomo_us and later shared by VideoCardz , and a second model by Sparkle has also popped up, with a signature blue shroud. The GPUs vary a little in design, with the Sparkle card appearing to be a lot more compact than the ASRock, which appears to have a triple slot design.
Intel’s latest update improves gaming performance by up to 77% Intel quietly steps out of the shadows with two new GPUs Everything you need to know about buying a GPU in 2023 Both manufacturers made the GPUs closely resemble their respective Arc A750 counterparts. Each features a dual-fan cooler and dual 8-pin power connectors. The ASRock is said to have a PCIe 4.0 x16 interface with support for a single HDMI 2.1 and three DisplayPort 2.1 connections.
ASRock Arc A580 Challenger OC A580 CL 8GO 2000MHz 8GB GDDR6 256bit 16Gbps 2x 8-Pin , 650W 3x DisplayPort , 1x HDMI pic.twitter.com/YcwHcznoO4 &mdash; 188号 (@momomo_us) October 4, 2023 The Arc A580 will feature 3,072 shader cores, or 24 Xe-cores, and is reported to be running on the ACM-G10 GPU. The card will sport 8GB of GDDR6 VRAM across a 256-bit bus and a maximum clock speed of 2GHz.
Intel doesn’t appear to be readying its own version of the Arc A580, so the ASRock and the Sparkle might be the only the models we’ll ever see of it, unless other manufacturers have something up their sleeves. Intel’s strategy for launching and marketing this card has been weird, to say the least, and we don’t actually have an official confirmation that it’s coming, or when. However, seeing these finished GPUs tells us that it’s coming up sooner rather than later.
Will the Arc A580 stand any chance of success in late 2023, when both AMD and Nvidia have long since moved to the next generation of GPUs? It could, but only if Intel (and its partners) will stick to the initial plan and price the card aggressively. It’ll be closer in performance to the Arc A750 than the Arc A380, and the former is already hovering in the $200 to $240 price range. Given the fierce competition from cards like the RTX 3060 and the RX 6600, Intel should aim for a $150 to $170 price tag in order to offer impressive value for the money.
Editors' Recommendations Intel surprise launched a new graphics card, but it doesn’t make any sense Intel’s forgotten Arc GPU might still have some life This mysterious Nvidia GPU is an absolute monstrosity — and we just got another look Intel’s future GPUs just got revealed in a major leak Intel just gave your Arc GPU double the frames-per-second performance News GPUs Tech News Computing Intel Arc Alchemist, also known as Intel's first serious venture into discrete graphics for gamers, is finally here. While the GPUs can't hope to compete with some of AMD's and Nvidia's best graphics cards, they can stand their own ground in the midrange market, and they're priced very competitively to make up for the fact that they won't replace your new RTX 4090 or even your old RTX 3080.
Intel's lineup right now includes the flagship Arc A770, which is supposed to be available with either 8GB or 16GB memory. Then, there's the Arc A750 and the entry-level Arc A380. Below, we'll explore their pricing, availability, and, most importantly, which one is worth spending your money on.
How much does the Intel Arc A770 cost? Computing Intel Arc A770 and A750 graphics cards will be available to order on October 12, but Intel admitted it’s still struggling with drivers for DirectX games. Raja Koduri, Intel’s head of Accelerated Computing Systems and Graphics Group (AXG), discussed the challenges in a recent interview.
With reviews expected to start arriving today, the pressure is on Intel to either impress us with its recovery or rush to solve issues quickly. Intel has been creating graphics drivers for decades, but until this year, that has focused on integrated graphics built into the CPU, which come with much lower expectations. Koduri explained that the first generation of Arc GPUs was most difficult because programmers had to start with a completely new architecture. Pandemic challenges slowed development as well. Heading into the second generation it should be better.
Computing Intel Arc Alchemist is here, and the flagship comes in two different versions: Arc A770 16GB and Arc A770 8GB. Both of these GPUs have been compared to Nvidia's GeForce RTX 3060 and RTX 3060 Ti, but how do they really match up? For many years, the GPU arena has been a two-horse race. Dominated by AMD and Nvidia, it lacked any extra competition. Now, with Intel joining the fray, do these two industry stalwarts need to start worrying? We've tested both Intel Arc and Nvidia extensively, so we have all the answers. Read on to find out which GPU wins the battle.
Specs Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
