Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing News Intel surprise launched a new graphics card, but it doesn’t make any sense By Monica J. White Close Intel’s Arc A580 graphics card is finally here, but we’re not sure if it’s ready to compete against some of the best GPUs out right now. In fact, based on the reviews, it is ill-prepared to face the current GPU market. What went wrong? It’s not even about the performance, even though it leaves a lot to be desired. It’s mostly that it seems this GPU makes little sense to buy compared to the competition, including Intel’s own offerings.
It’s been a bumpy road for the Intel Arc A580. The rest of the Arc Alchemist lineup, including the flagship Arc A770 , launched a year ago after multiple delays. The Arc A580 was announced alongside them, but then, Intel went quiet. Many people thought the card was quietly canceled, but then it resurfaced a few days ago — and now, it’s officially out, with a $180 price tag. We also know the full specs of the GPU.
Intel Arc A580 Xe-cores 24 Ray tracing units 24 XMX engines 384 Clock speed 1.7GHz Memory 8GB GDDR6 Bus width 256-bit Memory speed 16Gbps Bandwidth 512GB/s Intel’s next GPU just leaked, and it looks like a sub-$200 card worth buying Gamers are finally buying new graphics cards again Intel’s forgotten Arc GPU might still have some life With those specs, the GPU sits between the Arc A750 and A380, but it’s certainly closer to the A380. Intel itself pits it against the Nvidia RTX 3050 and the AMD RX 6600 , cards in a similar price range that are a little pricier. The card currently seems to be out in two models, one from ASRock and one from Sparkle.
TechPowerUp tested the ASRock Arc A580 Challenger in a number of benchmarks, finding that the A580 is around 25% faster than Nvidia’s RTX 3050, making it an obviously much better deal given the lower price. It offers comparable 1080p performance to AMD’s RX 6600, and falls behind the RX 5700 XT by around 8%. Intel’s own Arc A750 is faster, of course, but only by 9% — making the gains fairly negligible.
If you’re looking for something capable of 1440p gaming and ray tracing , the A580 is definitely not it, but it’s true that most GPUs in this price range weren’t made for things like that. In TechPowerUp’s review, the A580 averaged 75 frames per second (fps) across the entire gaming test suite at 1080p, and dropped down to 56.8 fps at 1440p. It gets outperformed by dated, but solid cards like the GTX 1080 Ti and the RTX 2070.
Tom’s Hardware took the Sparkle model of the GPU out for a spin. While the official clock on the GPU is limited to 1.7GHz, the Sparkle Orc OC model was able to hit 2.4GHz in testing, making it pull close to the A750. In gaming tests, the card fared a little worse here, averaging 50 fps at 1080p with ultra settings and a comfortable 77.6 fps at medium settings. For comparison, the A750 hit 84.6 fps in the same test.
Tom's Hardware Overall, the GPU gets outperformed across the board by cards along the likes of the AMD RX 7600 , but also the Arc A750. This isn’t unexpected, and there would still be room for this GPU in many budget PC builds , if not for the price. It appears that Intel has strayed from its initial plan of keeping its discrete graphics cards very competitive in terms of performance per dollar.
If the Arc A580 was a little cheaper, it would make more sense to buy than the A750. However, at $180, there’s almost no reason for anyone to buy this GPU. Sparkle’s model of the A750 can be found for $190, so by paying $10 extra, you’re getting better performance. Sure, it’s not a lot, but it’s definitely worth the money. And Intel, Nvidia and AMD are potential threats at a similar price range. Nvidia’s RTX 4060 or RTX 3060 are both better, and AMD has the RX 6600 and the RX 7600.
Intel just might be too late with this one. If it arrived a year ago with the rest of the lineup, it would make much more sense, as the A750 was initially priced at $250. However, given the performance issues Arc GPUs initially faced with DX9 and DX11 titles, perhaps Intel thought the A580 wasn’t worth it at the time. Most people won’t use it for AAA gaming in DX12 titles, so it would have been overlooked while Intel worked on its drivers to support older APIs.
It’s a shame that this GPU, while not bad, is most likely not going to become a popular choice. Nvidia and AMD could use a solid competitor in the mainstream segment, but this one just isn’t it. If you’re shopping for a GPU , you’re probably better off with the A750.
Editors' Recommendations Intel’s new Arc driver can boost your performance by up to 119% Intel’s new integrated graphics could rival discrete GPUs Intel’s latest update improves gaming performance by up to 77% Intel quietly steps out of the shadows with two new GPUs Intel just gave your Arc GPU double the frames-per-second performance News GPUs Tech News Computing Intel Arc Alchemist, also known as Intel's first serious venture into discrete graphics for gamers, is finally here. While the GPUs can't hope to compete with some of AMD's and Nvidia's best graphics cards, they can stand their own ground in the midrange market, and they're priced very competitively to make up for the fact that they won't replace your new RTX 4090 or even your old RTX 3080.
Intel's lineup right now includes the flagship Arc A770, which is supposed to be available with either 8GB or 16GB memory. Then, there's the Arc A750 and the entry-level Arc A380. Below, we'll explore their pricing, availability, and, most importantly, which one is worth spending your money on.
How much does the Intel Arc A770 cost? Computing Intel Arc Alchemist is here, and the flagship comes in two different versions: Arc A770 16GB and Arc A770 8GB. Both of these GPUs have been compared to Nvidia's GeForce RTX 3060 and RTX 3060 Ti, but how do they really match up? For many years, the GPU arena has been a two-horse race. Dominated by AMD and Nvidia, it lacked any extra competition. Now, with Intel joining the fray, do these two industry stalwarts need to start worrying? We've tested both Intel Arc and Nvidia extensively, so we have all the answers. Read on to find out which GPU wins the battle.
Specs Computing We now know the pricing and the release date for Intel's upcoming Arc Alchemist graphics cards. Intel shared this key piece of information in regard to two GPUs: The Arc A770 and the Arc A750. While we already knew those details for the Arc A770, the Arc A750 has now also been confirmed.
In addition to the long-awaited launch date, we now know a little more about the cards themselves. More importantly, we know that the pricing remains competitive throughout the lineup, so Intel has stayed true to its word and the promise that GPUs don't need to be obscenely expensive.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
