Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing News This new GPU connector may finally kill the melting 12VHPWR By Alex Blake Close The 12VHPWR graphics card connector has made a name for itself for all the wrong reasons, with the component frequently melting and causing the death of many a GPU. Now, graphics card manufacturers are apparently testing a replacement that could finally put an end to the sorry saga.
The new version, dubbed 12V-2×6, can reportedly deliver up to 660W of power to a graphics card — 10% more than the 12VHPWR. Despite that, testing has apparently shown it to be much safer than its predecessor.
From the outside, the design of the 12V-2×6 is fairly similar to the 12VHPWR. However, a key difference is that the new connector can deliver extra power through the GPU’s PCIe slot, which enables its higher power draw. In fact, testing by YouTube channel Hardware Busters has shown it could send up to 675W without a hitch.
During the testing, Hardware Busters noted that the connector could deliver 600W while temperatures rose to just 40 to 50 degrees Celsius — well within the safe range of operation and nowhere near hot enough to melt the connector. This was done even with a peak power draw of up to 640W.
Why it’s a surprisingly good time to buy a GPU right now AMD has another new GPU that it says can beat the RTX 4060 Ti Newegg wants your old GPU — here’s how much you could get Even more impressively, this was achieved even when the connector was not properly inserted. The component’s shorter sense pins compared to the 12VHPWR could well be the cause of this, as they detect when the connector is not inserted fully and limit power delivery to the GPU, thereby constraining how hot it can get.
In comparison, some 12VHPWR connectors were reaching temperatures of 150 degrees , causing them to melt and inflict serious damage on users’ graphics cards. The difference here appears to be immense.
Goodbye 12VHPWR Shiftyeyes67k / Reddit The 12V-2×6 appears to be a superior part compared to the 12VHPWR, at least from this testing. The question now is how widely it will be adopted in the industry.
Nvidia has already begun implementing the 12V-2×6 connector in its RTX 4090 cards , which previously seemed to be particularly susceptible to melting when they used the 12VHPWR connector.
AMD might also decide to add the part to its cards. Past reports have suggested the company considered adding the 12VHPWR connector to its cards but dropped the plans due to the negative reception surrounding the component. Now that a more suitable replacement has been found, it’s possible AMD could decide to add it to its upcoming GPUs.
Whatever happens, it’s clear the 12VHPWR’s days are numbered. After all the fires, broken GPUs, and numerous attempts to fix the problem , few people will be sad to see the connector go.
Editors' Recommendations I’m scared of next-gen Nvidia GPUs, and you should be too Nvidia may launch three new Super GPUs to fight back AMD Even older RTX 4090s aren’t safe from melting connector Someone tweaked AMD’s RX 7800 XT, and the results may surprise you Thunderbolt 5 may help bring back external GPUs, Intel says GPUs Tech News Computing Nvidia's best GPU continues to melt, and even third-party adapters can't seem to prevent it from happening. CableMod's adapter, which many had hoped would fix all problems, is now pinned as the cause of some of the instances of melting connectors. Unfortunately, using it voids the warranty on the GPU, as one unlucky user found out from MSI.
Reddit user Agentcamels reported on the MSI subreddit (via Tom's Hardware) that their RTX 4090 went up in smoke. We've heard of this before -- it's a seemingly never-ending saga of melting RTX 4090 connectors. It seems that they were playing Cyberpunk 2077 when they saw smoke. CableMod's 12VHPWR adapter was in use here, and that may have caused the meltdown; in any case, it appears that the adapter is now stuck to the GPU.
Computing We recently saw AMD unveiling two brand new desktop GPUs from its Radeon 7000 series. The new RX 7800 XT and the RX 7700 XT are based on the RDNA 3 architecture and are claimed to be optimized for the best 1440p gaming experience. Both the graphics cards also come with standard 8-pin PCIe power connectors, but a report now suggests that was not AMD’s original plan.
In an interview with Club386, Scott Herkelman, senior vice president and general manager of the Graphics Business Unit at AMD, said that the company had given thought to using the 16-pin 12VHPWR power connector on the RX 7800 XT and RX 7700 XT. However, it rightly chose to drop that idea after rival Nvidia experienced major issues with the connector.
Computing In June, we reported on the clobbering GPUs had taken in sales, even with some of the best graphics cards becoming available. Now, things are finally starting to turn around, with the latest market report showing signs of growth over the last few months despite it being a traditionally weak time of year for graphics cards.
The scoop comes from Jon Peddie Research, which has released its latest report on the graphics card market. While year-to-year figures are pretty grim, this past quarter showed a lot of promise. In the second quarter of 2023, GPU shipments increased by 11.6%. Despite this recovery, the market still saw a 27% decrease year-to-year. This includes all platforms and all types of GPUs. For desktop GPUs, the yearly losses are even worse, with a 36% decrease from the same time last year, although desktop add-in boards (AIBs) increased by 2.9%.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
