Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing News Nvidia’s next GPU might follow Apple’s lead — and not in a good way By Jacob Roach Close Rumor has it that Nvidia is gearing up to refresh its slate of RTX 40-series graphics cards. The latest news is a reported box leak, which reveals that Nvidia could be working on an RTX 4070 Ti Super model for launch sometime early next year.
We’ve seen Super and Ti refreshes from Nvidia in the past, but never a Ti Super model. The name doesn’t really matter, but it harkens back to some of the more ridiculous naming schemes we’ve seen from other tech brands. Apple’s M2 Ultra, for example, is a better chip than the M2 Max, so apparently Ultra is better than Max. Who would’ve thought? I can&#39;t believe this name is real Plus, the new super logo and color are kinda ugly…… pic.twitter.com/trxytR9cSV &mdash; MEGAsizeGPU (@Zed__Wang) November 7, 2023 Silly name or not, MEGAsizeGPU on Twitter shared an image that they say is the box logo for the RTX 4070 Ti Super. Stacking up branding may be a consequence of Nvidia’s sudden rebranding of the original RTX 4070 Ti.
 That card was originally called the RTX 4080 12GB, but after a wave of backlash, Nvidia adjusted the name and price of the card.
This isn’t the first time we’ve heard about the RTX 4070 Ti Super, though most of the recent rumors have centered around an RTX 4080 Super refresh.
 Currently, leakers suggest the card will arrive with a big bump to core count and replace the RTX 4080 at the $1,200 list price, pushing the original model down.
I made an entire PC build for the price of one Nvidia GPU This underrated Nvidia GPU is still the one to buy All ray tracing games on PC: AMD Radeon and Nvidia RTX ray tracing The RTX 4070 Super is also rumored, which is reportedly a slightly cut-down version of the RTX 4070 Ti with a lower power draw. It’s not clear what price this card will launch at, if it launches at all, but it could sit around $650 to $700. Nvidia’s RTX 4070 already occupies a price point of around $550 to $600, and it’s one of the few cards in Nvidia’s current generation that’s a good value at that price.
If Nvidia is launching new GPUs, we expect they’ll show up at CES 2024. That’s the time frame leaker kopite7kimi suggests the cards will arrive, who has a fairly consistent track record with Nvidia launches.
CES &mdash; kopite7kimi (@kopite7kimi) November 5, 2023 Although we don’t have any official news that Nvidia is working on a Super refresh, it would make sense. Nvidia has already adjusted the pricing on some of its GPUs in response to AMD cards like the RX 7800 XT and RX 7900 XTX.
 The RTX 4080, for example, debuted at $1,200, but you can commonly find it for around $1,100 now. Similarly, the RTX 4070 is supposed to cost $600, but you can find models for $520 if you shop around.
With prices on some of Nvidia’s key GPUs falling, it makes sense to give the range a bump to return the cards to their ideal list price — hopefully with a solid performance bump in tow.
On top of that, Nvidia’s next-gen GPUs aren’t expected to launch until 2025. That would break Nvidia’s normal two-year cadence for desktop GPU releases. The company hasn’t outright confirmed next-gen GPUs are slated for 2025, though a brief roadmap in a recent Nvidia presentation suggested we wouldn’t see them in 2024.
Editors' Recommendations Whatever you do, don’t buy an Nvidia GPU right now Nvidia’s RTX Super might be a massive boost at no extra cost Nvidia may launch three new Super GPUs to fight back AMD Nvidia’s DLSS 3.5 update is what ray tracing always wanted to be I bought Nvidia’s worst-value GPU, but I don’t regret it GPUs PC Gaming Tech News Computing It seems Nvidia is feeling some pressure from AMD. The popular RTX 4070 is now readily available for $50 below its list price of $600, likely in response to AMD's recently released RX 7800 XT.
You can find models in stock at various retailers like Newegg and Amazon, as first spotted by Wccftech. The shift comes just days after AMD released its $500 RX 7800 XT, which beats the RTX 4070 in a head-to-head matchup. Ahead of this launch, prices on Nvidia's RTX 4060 Ti 16GB also dropped, bringing the card from $500 down to $450.
Computing In case you were hoping to see even more of Nvidia's top graphics cards on the shelves, MSI has got your back. The company just unveiled around 20 new GPU models, and it's not just more of the same -- these new cards belong to MSI's Gaming Slim series, meaning they'll take up significantly less room in your PC case. And yes, this also applies to the behemoth RTX 4090.
MSI is readying up Gaming Slim models powered by the RTX 4090, RTX 4080, RTX 4070 Ti, and RTX 4070 GPUs. There are already RTX 4060 Ti 16GB cards in the Slim lineup, and the RTX 4060 hardly needs such a refresh. All cards will be available in either black or white, adding up to an impressive number of new products.
Computing Nvidia has been taking a beating lately with its graphics cards, at least if you believe the reviews. On the financial side, however, Nvidia is still bringing in the cash with its controversial RTX 4060 family.
The company released its earnings for the second quarter of fiscal 2024 (or, in real life, the third quarter of 2023). Unsurprisingly, Nvidia brought in a ton of money overall -- a new record at $13.51 billion, which is 101% higher than a year ago, largely due to the AI boom. What's surprising is that Nvidia's gaming revenue is up, too.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
