Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Features Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? This underrated Nvidia GPU is still the one to buy By Jacob Roach Close Jacob Roach / Digital Trends There hasn’t been a lot of positive reception to Nvidia’s graphics cards this generation. There’s no doubt that Nvidia’s RTX 40-series GPUs are among the best graphics cards you can buy, but with disappointing generational improvements, higher pricing, and reliance on features like DLSS 3 , it’s easy to write off a new graphics card when Nvidia releases one.
Not a warm reception The peak PC gaming experience But there’s one Goldilocks graphics card from Nvidia’s current generation that’s the right choice for a lot of PC gamers. It delivers all of the best parts of Nvidia’s cutting-edge generation and ignores the insane pricing and disappointing generational uplifts. And now, months after launch, prices have dropped, making it an even better value. That GPU is Nvidia’s RTX 4070.
Not a warm reception Jacob Roach / Digital Trends The RTX 4070 didn’t get bad reviews when it launched. It’s the only card from Nvidia’s current generation to have earned an Editor’s Choice badge from Digital Trends, as you can read in my RTX 4070 review , and the sentiment from reviewers was generally positive. There were a few exceptions, such as The Verge saying it “was expecting a little more from a generational leap,” but no reviewers thought it was a bad card — much unlike GPUs like the RTX 4060 Ti.
Whatever you do, don’t buy an Nvidia GPU right now This is the cheapest GPU that’s still worth buying I made an entire PC build for the price of one Nvidia GPU The response from gamers was much different at the time. I searched “RTX 4070 reddit” and took a look at some of the top comments from when the card first released. Here’s a sampling: “It will sell well for two reasons: Nvidia’s mindshare and the fact that the value of the other RTX 40 cards is so bad that this card seems acceptable.” “Nvidia is set on making graphics cards significantly more expensive over time and, for that reason, you [should] avoid buying Nvidia for the time being.” “I hate it.” Not such a warm reception. Contrast that to a thread that was posted last week , though, where you’ll find basically every commenter recommending the card, claiming that “it rocks,” and that “it’s a no-brainer.” What happened? Well, put simply, the RTX 4070 got cheaper.
The card originally launched for $600. Keep in mind that’s the base price, so you could expect to spend anywhere from $620 to $700 depending on what was available at retailers. Now, you’ll commonly find the RTX 4070 for $550, and if you shop open box and used cards, you’ll find them as low as $450. This price adjustment mainly came in response to AMD’s RX 7800 XT , which managed to match and sometimes beat the RTX 4070 at $500.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends I don’t believe the $50 difference really factors into the RTX 4070 being a good graphics card. That’s a pricing adjustment on par with the difference between a stock and overclocked model of any GPU. But it’s a staggering example of how a slight price adjustment can completely upend the narrative around a product. The RTX 4070 went from a solid card with bad pricing to a downright deal basically overnight, and all it took was a $50 price cut.
The RTX 4070 was always a great GPU, balancing performance with price in a way that no other modern Nvidia GPU does while delivering next-gen features. It seems that now the wider PC gaming community is getting the memo. For a section of PC gamers that are willing to spend some money for a peak gaming experience, the RTX 4070 is the graphics card to buy.
The peak PC gaming experience Jacob Roach / Digital Trends A friend of mine recently upgraded his PC. After the RX 7800 XT released, he was convinced it was the graphics card we was going to buy. We talked about it a few times, but one day, he spotted an RTX 4070 for a reasonable price and decided to go with it. He called me after, excited that he now had what he described as the “peak PC” for gaming. There are more powerful PCs, no doubt, but that’s an impressive reaction.
You can look at a benchmark chart and quickly see that there are plenty of GPUs that are more powerful than the RTX 4070, both from Nvidia itself and AMD — the RTX 4070 looks downright puny compared to the RTX 4090.
 But that doesn’t matter much when you look at the actual numbers. The RTX 4070 delivers close, and usually above, 100 frames per second (fps) at its target resolution of 1440p.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Above that, the card can still deliver playable frame rates at 4K. It’s not going to hit 60 fps in every game with all of the settings maxed out, but it will meet and exceed that mark in most games. In my test suite, it only fell short of 60 fps in one game at 4K: Cyberpunk 2077, which remains one of the most demanding PC games around.
Digital Trends The competition from AMD is fierce. The RX 7800 XT can beat the RTX 4070 in some titles, and on average, AMD’s card is 9% faster at 1440p and 6% faster at 4K. That changes when you bring ray tracing into the mix, though. As expected, the RTX 4070 is nearly 13% better with ray tracing at 1440p. Once you factor in Nvidia’s Deep Learning Super Sampling 3.5 , the comparison isn’t even fair. In a situation that should be impossible for the RTX 4070, like Cyberpunk 2077 at 4K with the maximum ray tracing settings, DLSS 3 can help you achieve frame rates above 60 fps.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends There’s some earned criticism of Nvidia increasingly selling the feature set of its GPUs over raw performance, but (short of maybe the $1,600 RTX 4090), the RTX 4070 is the only GPU in Nvidia’s current lineup that nails the balance of solid baseline performance that’s enhanced by a world-class feature set. AMD’s competing GPUs may have a slight edge in overall performance, but not enough to justify skipping out on the features Nvidia’s current GPUs offer.
For some people, AMD’s RX 7800 XT makes more sense. There’s also a group that should spend up for something like the RX 7900 XTX , and yet another that don’t need more than an RTX 4060.
But no card nails that peak PC gaming experience in 2023 quite like the RTX 4070. Its raw performance is ideal for 1440p and more then capable of 4K, and it has a set of features that make impossible gaming scenarios like path tracing in Cyberpunk 2077 a reality. It’s the card you should buy if you want the best PC gaming has to offer in 2023 without an infinite budget.
Editors' Recommendations Don’t wait for new GPUs. It’s safe to buy a gaming laptop now The tech that will actually make you a better PC gamer Nvidia’s next GPU might follow Apple’s lead — and not in a good way Nvidia RTX 4090 prices are skyrocketing as stocks run seriously low Alan Wake 2 on PC is an embarrassment of riches Features GPUs PC Gaming Computing I've been strictly against buying a case for my Steam Deck since I first picked up the handheld. If you haven't held one, they're comically big. Every time I've given someone my Steam Deck to check out, they have the same reaction: a chuckle, followed by "that's bigger than I expected." Why would you want to make it even bigger with a case? That is, until I found a case that works perfectly for my Steam Deck: Dbrand's Killswitch. Not only does it protect your Steam Deck thanks to a rugged exterior, but it provides several other features that make the Steam Deck much more useful for traveling, docking, and handheld play.
Computing I've had a few gaming laptops in my life, but I really can't see myself ever buying another one -- even though there are definitely times when I could use one. That's not to throw shade to some of the best gaming laptops, because I know those are great for those who can appreciate them. I simply can't bring myself to trust another one again.
I'm not against buying a laptop for gaming, but here are some of the reasons I've continued to resist picking one for myself.
Once burned, twice shy Computing Nvidia may be readying three new GPUs -- the RTX 4080 Super, RTX 4070 Ti Super, and the RTX 4070 Super. We haven't seen Super cards since Nvidia's RTX 20-series, but if this leak turns out to be true, they're coming back. Will they be worthwhile enough to rank high among the best graphics cards? It's hard to say, but they could help it compete against AMD's recent GPUs.
The information comes from hongxing2020, a frequent leaker in the GPU space. Nvidia already has a decent spread of GPUs between the RTX 4080, RTX 4070 Ti, and the RTX 4070. However, if a refresh to the Ada lineup is reportedly on the way, we might see some notable changes, but only if Nvidia decides to shake things up and use a different chip for at least two out of those three GPUs.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
