Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Features The worst GPUs of all time: loud, disappointing, uninspired By Monica J. White Close When you look at some of the best graphics cards of today, it’s easy to forget that Nvidia and AMD (and more recently, Intel) weren’t always the only players in the GPU game. While both AMD and Nvidia have committed their fair share of GPU blunders, they’re not the only two brands behind some of the worst GPUs of all time.
Intel740 S3 ViRGE Nvidia GeForceFX 5800 3dfx Voodoo Rush Let’s take a look at some of the graphics cards that will make you appreciate the current GPU landscape, and yes, even including cards that are borderline mistakes. (Hello, RTX 4060 Ti.
) Here are the GPUs that did it terribly, terribly wrong, even though each had something interesting or innovative to bring to the table.
We’re focused on the past here, mainly around brands that have faded from the limelight. Make sure to check out our other roundups for more modern examples: Worst AMD GPUs of all time Worst Nvidia GPUs of all time Intel740 Vintage3D Arc Alchemist wasn’t Intel’s first venture into discrete GPUs, and neither was the DG1. Long before either of those projects came the Intel i740, and it’s a GPU that makes all of Intel’s other attempts look just that much better.
Nvidia’s new GPUs could be right around the corner AMD is slowing down at the worst possible time Intel still thinks ARM is an insignificant threat In the mid to late 1990s, Intel jumped on the 3D graphics acceleration bandwagon. The burgeoning PC gaming market was really starting to bring into focus just how much 3D graphics would matter in the future. Perhaps this was what tempted Intel to stray out of its primary domain — which, even back then, was making some of the best processors — and try to make discrete GPUs.
The Intel740, also known as i740, was released in early 1998. It was a 350nm GPU that relied on the now long-forgotten AGP interface, which looked promising compared to PCI (mind the difference — not PCIe) back in those days. In fact, it was one of the first GPUs to utilize AGP, which later proved to play a part in its downfall.
It clocked at a modest 66MHz and had 2-8MB of VRAM across a 64-bit bus. Those specs sound laughable when judged by today’s standards, and even back then, they were a bit off. The amount of VRAM was lower than some of Intel’s competitors were able to provide, but the AGP interface was meant to help; unfortunately, it only served to reduce CPU performance by stuffing the main RAM with textures and taking up the processor’s capacity. The GPU was also affected by this convoluted process.
Despite a lot of hype, the Intel740 fell flat. Although it may have been meant to become a solution for rendering 3D graphics, it sometimes failed to handle them well, delivering artifacts and low visual clarity instead. Rumors of its poor performance were quick to spread. Although Intel mostly targeted pre-built PC manufacturers (OEMs) with this GPU, it only took a short time to be forgotten as gaming enthusiasts knew to stay away from the i740.
The graphics market was very volatile back then and evolved rapidly, so a flop like that must have been a setback for Intel. However, after a couple more attempts at making discrete GPUs, it switched to integrated graphics, where it found success for the years to come.
S3 ViRGE Retronn Before we settled into the current landscape of AMD, Nvidia, and Intel, the GPU market had a few more names vying for attention. One such company was S3, which rose to fame very quickly in the early-to-mid 1990s. Much like Intel, S3 capitalized on the 3D graphics boom and designed graphics chips that offered 3D acceleration. In the end, the S3 ViRGE became known as a “3D decelerator,” and is now remembered as one of the worst GPUs of all time.
Upon launch, the S3 ViRGE was marketed as the “world’s first integrated 3D graphics accelerator.” It was, indeed, one of the first such chipsets designed for the mainstream market. It supported around 2MB to 4MB SDRAM across a 64-bit bus and had a core clock of 55MHz. It could render both 2D and 3D graphics and offered resolutions of up to 800 x 600 in 3D. While it did a decent enough job in 2D, it failed to impress in 3D — and that was the whole purpose and marketing scheme for the chip.
When faced with relatively simple 3D rendering, the S3 ViRGE was actually a little bit faster than the best CPU-based solution of those times. However, when it came to the increasingly complex rendering required for 3D games, including tasks like bilinear filtering, the GPU actually proved to be slower than software rendering (which essentially meant using the CPU for graphics purposes). This is what earned it the mocking name of “world’s first 3D decelerator,” because users would prefer to turn off the 3D acceleration and just use the CPU instead.
Word of the chip’s poor 3D performance quickly got around, and the rapid shift from 2D to 3D in the gaming market didn’t help here. S3 attempted to fix what went wrong with future GPUs, such as ViRGE/DX and the ViRGE/GX, but it had pretty fierce competitors in Nvidia, ATI (later AMD), and 3dfx. Ultimately, S3 couldn’t compete in the growing 3D market, although it kept making chips for the midrange segment.
Nvidia GeForceFX 5800 Anandtech Meet the GeForce FX 5800 Ultra — the first (and only?) GPU that Nvidia made a spoof video about. Yes, Nvidia itself made a two-minute video mocking this GPU, but it wasn’t until after it was released to the market and became known as the “Dustbuster” of graphics cards.
Nvidia had big plans for the FX series. It was meant to be this big leap into the DirectX 9 era, which was a significant transition for PC gaming. This GPU came at a time when Nvidia was already a market leader, although ATI Technologies was closely behind with the Radeon graphics card line. Nvidia’s stumble with the FX series was an unexpected setback, but as we now know, ATI’s/AMD’s dominance didn’t last long and Nvidia now controls the majority of the market, perhaps to the detriment of PC gamers.
The FX 5800 Ultra was manufactured on a 130nm process and clocked at 500MHz (clock and memory, for an effective 1GHz). It used 128MB GDDR2 memory across a 128-bit interface. Nvidia decked it out with the CineFX architecture to enhance cinematic rendering and built it with the plan to make it efficient at DirectX 9 shader processing.
On paper, it sounded great. In reality, it was decidedly not. It did well enough in DirectX 8 games but struggled with certain DX9 titles, and ATI’s Radeon 9700 Pro was an enticing alternative that didn’t have the same issues. However, the main problem with the FX 5800 Ultra was the noise.
Nvidia implemented an innovative cooling solution in this GPU called the FX Flow. This was meant to keep the GPU, which normally ran hot, at a comfortable temperature even during heavy gaming. However, the tiny fan that powered the contraption had to run at a really high speed in order to keep up. The result was some of the loudest noise a consumer GPU was ever known to produce.
Nvidia didn’t stick to this cooling model for long. Most of its partners reverted to traditional cooling methods for the FX 5900 XT and 5900 Ultra, and we haven’t seen anything like it ever since.
3dfx Voodoo Rush 3dfx was once a formidable rival to Nvidia and ATI. It rose to fame in the early 1990s, and like several other GPU makers of that time, it rode the wave of 3D graphics until it crashed and burned. Nvidia eventually bought most of its assets in 2000. While the company’s decline can’t be attributed to a single card, it had some interesting solutions that ended up failing in the mainstream market, and the 3dfx Voodoo Rush GPU is perhaps one of the most recognized examples.
The Voodoo Rush chipset was a follow-up to the company’s initial product, the Voodoo1. It integrated 2D and 3D acceleration into a single card, pairing the 3D capabilities of Voodoo graphics with a 2D core from other manufacturers. That’s right, I’m talking about a dual-chip configuration here.
The GPU served up 6MB of EDO DRAM, a maximum core clock speed of around 50MHz, and support for things like the Glide API, Direct3D, and OpenGL, as well as a maximum resolution of 800 x 600 in 3D applications. It sounded promising on paper, but once the actual product was out and people could test it, several problems peeked through the hype.
For one, it was a massive GPU with a tendency to heat up, but the main issue lay in the architecture and how it all added up to performance that was often worse than the Voodoo 1 in 3D games. Compatibility problems and visual artifacts weren’t uncommon, and once those issues came to light, reviewers and users alike turned their back on this GPU.
The poor reception of the Voodoo Rush wasn’t what ultimately sealed 3dfx’s fate, though. It went on to produce more GPUs, including the (also controversial) Voodoo 5 6000 which came with its own power adapter. Let’s hope Nvidia doesn’t come up with a similar idea for one of its next-gen behemoth flagships , because the end result was pretty funny to look at.
Editors' Recommendations Upgrade your PC or start from scratch? Here’s our definitive guide on the question I’m scared of next-gen Nvidia GPUs, and you should be too Snapdragon X Elite is a showstopper chip arriving at the worst possible time Nvidia RTX 4090 prices are skyrocketing as stocks run seriously low How Nvidia and AMD could make Windows laptops feel like MacBooks Features GPUs Intel Computing Getting a good deal on a GPU is all about timing. Buy at the wrong time, and you'll end up overpaying.
But I have good news for you. I've been closely monitoring GPU prices as we move through the final quarter of the year, and I'm seeing some really solid deals out there, with many of the best graphics cards coming in under their retail price. If you've been thinking of buying a graphics card, now is turning out to be a surprisingly good time.
Why is now the time to buy a GPU? Computing We just got another round of leaks surrounding the rumored Nvidia RTX 40 Super lineup. This time, the sources speak about the amount of memory these new GPUs might serve up. Nvidia may be making progress toward rivaling some of AMD's best graphics cards, which typically have a lot more VRAM. But is this upgrade really going to be as significant as some speculate? Not all reputable sources agree.
A third source has just weighed in on the matter of the rumored RTX 4080 Super, RTX 4070 Ti Super, and the RTX 4070 Super. Benchlife cites its own sources at Nvidia's board partners as it claims that the RTX 4080 Super might come with 20GB of memory, whereas the RTX 4070 Super might be boosted to 16GB. Doing so would definitely require chip changes for both cards. The RTX 4080 Super would now share the same AD102 GPU as the flagship RTX 4090, and the RTX 4070 Super would be bumped up to the AD103 chip found in the RTX 4080.
Computing Nvidia may be readying three new GPUs -- the RTX 4080 Super, RTX 4070 Ti Super, and the RTX 4070 Super. We haven't seen Super cards since Nvidia's RTX 20-series, but if this leak turns out to be true, they're coming back. Will they be worthwhile enough to rank high among the best graphics cards? It's hard to say, but they could help it compete against AMD's recent GPUs.
The information comes from hongxing2020, a frequent leaker in the GPU space. Nvidia already has a decent spread of GPUs between the RTX 4080, RTX 4070 Ti, and the RTX 4070. However, if a refresh to the Ada lineup is reportedly on the way, we might see some notable changes, but only if Nvidia decides to shake things up and use a different chip for at least two out of those three GPUs.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
