Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing News There’s only one use for an RTX 4080 Ti, and it’s not what you think By Monica J. White Close Jacob Roach / Digital Trends According to the latest round of leaks, Nvidia may be readying an RTX 4080 Ti, set to come out in the first few months of 2024. While such a GPU would definitely rank high among the best graphics cards , it’s not exactly necessary right now — there are plenty of high-end GPUs floating around. There is one reason I would like to see an RTX 4080 Ti, though; to push down the price of the RTX 4080.
MEGAsizeGPU, who is a frequent speculator in the graphics card space, shared over the weekend that an RTX 4080 Super, or maybe Ti, will come out in just a few months. Given Nvidia’s current naming convention in this generation, a Ti card seems more likely. As per MEGAsizeGPU, the card will be based on Nvidia’s flagship AD102 chip and will have a power consumption below 450 watts. The other specs are a mystery, but I wouldn’t be surprised if Nvidia added some more VRAM to the card — 20GB seems likely. The bump from AD103 to AD102 should also deliver a decent upgrade in CUDA core counts — dare I say in the 12,000 to 13,000 range? While these specs sound good on paper, we really don’t need an RTX 4080 Ti (or RTX 4090 Ti , for that matter). The RTX 4080 is already pretty evenly matched against AMD’s top GPU, the RX 7900 XTX.
 While AMD’s card wins in rasterization, Nvidia’s RTX 4080 has access to DLSS 3 , which gives it an edge if you care about it. Then, there’s the RTX 4090 that blows both cards out of the water.
Nvidia RTX 4090 prices are skyrocketing as stocks run seriously low Nvidia may launch three new Super GPUs to fight back AMD Even older RTX 4090s aren’t safe from melting connector We’ve covered on GPUs that cost over $1,000 for the generation. A stepping stone between the RTX 4080 and RTX 4090 doesn’t make much sense considering both cards are already outrageously expensive. We don’t need an RTX 4080 Ti, but I’m on board if it makes the base RTX 4080 drop below $1,000.
The leaker implies that the RTX 4080 Ti will be in a similar price range to the RTX 4080. If it’s priced at $1,200 from the get-go, it will basically be what the RTX 4080 should always have been — a premium card with high-end performance. As things stand now, the performance-to-price ratio for the RTX 4080 is among the worst we’ve seen in years.
There will be a 4080S(maybe Ti) in early 2024.
Based on AD102, TGP below 450W, same price range as 4080 &mdash; MEGAsizeGPU (@Zed__Wang) October 7, 2023 When the RTX 4080 launched nearly a year ago, Nvidia’s outrageous pricing strategy reared its ugly head once again. A xx80 GPU priced at $1,200 was already problematic enough as it is, but to top it all off, it had significantly worse performance than the $1,600 RTX 4090.
 Moreover, its last-gen predecessor only cost $700 at launch.
Although I’m happy with my RTX 4080 , I decided to get it while knowing that it’s one of the worst GPUs in terms of performance per dollar. My main regret is not saving up to get an RTX 4090 instead, as that card is actually more worth the money than the RTX 4080 — but that could change if an RTX 4080 Ti is released at a reasonable price.
If the RTX 4080 Ti steals the price tag of the RTX 4080, we’re bound to see some price cuts on the latter. You can already find some models of the card for around $1,050, and if the price officially drops to around $950 to $1,000, its value will automatically skyrocket. I’d love to see it go down to $900, but that might just be wishful thinking.
Will it actually happen? Will Nvidia adjust the price of the RTX 4080? I sure hope so. It’s not a bad card, it’s just a terrible value. And while we really don’t need the RTX 4080 Ti, if that’s what it takes for Nvidia to make the RTX 4080 more affordable, I’ll take it. We might end up with two GPUs with better value in the process.
Editors' Recommendations I’m scared of next-gen Nvidia GPUs, and you should be too Nvidia’s RTX Super might be a massive boost at no extra cost AMD has another new GPU that it says can beat the RTX 4060 Ti Someone tweaked AMD’s RX 7800 XT, and the results may surprise you Asus’ new RTX 4090 shattered GPU overclocking records, and you’ll be able to buy it soon News GPUs Tech News Computing VSync is an essential piece of video game tech that can help your games look much smoother. Despite new options like G-Sync or FreeSync, VSync remains a key option for many gamers. But what does it do, and is it still worth using? You'll find VSync in nearly all PC games you play, and it's normally on by default. In this guide, we'll explore what VSync is, why it's useful, and if you should leave it turned on in your PC games.
What is VSync technology? Computing With the release of the Radeon RX 7800 XT and RX 7700 XT, AMD finally set foot in the mainstream gaming sector with its RDNA 3 lineup. Nvidia, its biggest rival, which also makes some of the best graphics cards, was the first to release competing cards with similar performance -- at least on paper. But are Nvidia's options better than AMD's in this generation? The RX 7800 XT was, from the get-go, said to be the competitor to Nvidia's RTX 4070, but in reality, these GPUs differ both in price and performance. We've tested the RX 7800 XT and compared it to the RTX 4070, and we now know which of these two GPUs is the one to pick.
Pricing and availability Computing Nvidia's best GPU continues to melt, and even third-party adapters can't seem to prevent it from happening. CableMod's adapter, which many had hoped would fix all problems, is now pinned as the cause of some of the instances of melting connectors. Unfortunately, using it voids the warranty on the GPU, as one unlucky user found out from MSI.
Reddit user Agentcamels reported on the MSI subreddit (via Tom's Hardware) that their RTX 4090 went up in smoke. We've heard of this before -- it's a seemingly never-ending saga of melting RTX 4090 connectors. It seems that they were playing Cyberpunk 2077 when they saw smoke. CableMod's 12VHPWR adapter was in use here, and that may have caused the meltdown; in any case, it appears that the adapter is now stuck to the GPU.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
