Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Guides Products What is VSync, and why do you need it? By Tyler Lacoma and Kunal Khullar Close VSync is an essential piece of video game tech that can help your games look much smoother. Despite new options like G-Sync or FreeSync , VSync remains a key option for many gamers. But what does it do, and is it still worth using? What is VSync technology? Does it make a big difference? What do I need to enable VSync technology? Does VSync have any problems? What are Adaptive VSync and Fast Sync? Is VSync better than G-Sync or FreeSync? Who can use G-Sync and FreeSync? How to enable VSync? You’ll find VSync in nearly all PC games you play, and it’s normally on by default. In this guide, we’ll explore what VSync is, why it’s useful, and if you should leave it turned on in your PC games.
What is VSync technology? Image used with permission by copyright holder VSync, short for vertical synchronization, is a graphics technology designed to sync a game’s frame rate with the refresh rate of a gaming monitor. Originally pioneered by GPU manufacturers, this technology was introduced to address the issue of screen tearing, which occurs when your screen simultaneously presents portions of multiple frames. This can lead to visual artifacts resembling the example shown above, typically manifesting as a horizontal split in the display. Screen tearing arises when the monitor’s refresh rate (the frequency at which it updates per second) is not synchronized with the frames per second being produced by the graphics card.
Is there a Surfshark free trial? What you need to know 23% of PC gamers probably can’t play Alan Wake 2. Here’s why Nvidia may launch three new Super GPUs to fight back AMD Screen tearing can occur at any time, though it is most prevalent during fast motion, particularly when a game runs at a higher frame rate than the monitor can handle or when the frame rate changes dramatically and the monitor can’t keep up. It is particularly noticeable during fast-paced games with vertical image elements, such as trees, entrances, or buildings. When this happens, those lines will quite clearly not line up correctly, which can break immersion and make a beautiful game look rather ugly.
VSync does a few things to help alleviate this. First, it limits the frame rate output by the graphics card to the monitor’s refresh rate (60Hz, unless you have a high-refresh-rate monitor ), making it easier to avoid higher frames per second than the monitor can handle.
It does this by preventing the GPU from doing anything to the display memory until the monitor has concluded its current refresh cycle — effectively not feeding it any more information until it’s ready for it. Through a combination of double buffering and page flipping , VSync synchronizes the drawing of frames onto the display only when it has finished a refresh cycle, so you shouldn’t ever see tears when VSync is enabled.
Does it make a big difference? Image used with permission by copyright holder VSync only helps with screen tearing, and it only really does that by limiting fps when necessary. If your monitor can’t keep up with the fps of a particular game, then VSync can make a big difference.
However, VSync cannot improve your resolution, colors, or brightness levels like HDR.
 It’s a preventative technology that’s focused on stopping a specific problem rather than making improvements. It also tends to harm performance.
By forcing frames to be entirely rendered before being displayed, your fps can suffer, and at best, your frame rate is limited to the refresh rate of your display. In some games where higher fps can lead to reduced input lag, it can also affect your competitive performance.
If you really want to make the most of your PC’s gaming capabilities, it’s important to fine-tune your settings to the max. Check out our guide on the best Nvidia Control Panel settings, and if you’re into Call of Duty, we have a game-specific guide for Call of Duty: Warzone that can help you push your computer to the limit.
What do I need to enable VSync technology? You don’t need a particular monitor to use VSync — it’s designed to work with all kinds of displays. You need a graphics card that supports it, but most recent generations support it throughout the product lineups. VSync has been around for many years, and both Nvidia and AMD have options to enable the setting in their drivers for all games.
However, if you’d prefer to do it on an individual game basis, most games offer it as a toggle option in their graphics settings menu.
Does VSync have any problems? Image used with permission by copyright holder VSync is far from a perfect solution and can negatively affect your gaming experience, even if it is useful and working as intended. If a monitor and a game are having trouble syncing up, then VSync can lower your frame rate significantly to try to find a point where they can. That can lead to input lag and stuttering increases, which worsens the gaming experience. Screen tearing is most noticeable in fast-paced games like shooters and fighters, but it can affect all sorts of games regardless of genre.
That’s why, if you’re particularly serious about these types of games, enabling VSync might not be worth it. Another setting, called triple buffering, can help reduce some of VSync’s problems, but this doesn’t come with any guarantees.
What are Adaptive VSync and Fast Sync? Dan Baker/Digital Trends Here’s where things get a little more complicated. GPU companies were well aware of VSync’s potential problems when it was first released, and they’ve been trying to make improved versions ever since. That’s why, when you go into your GPU control panel, you may see different syncing options. More advanced forms of VSync include: Adaptive VSync : This is an Nvidia improvement that watches the monitor’s max refresh rate. If the FPS of the game is equal to or higher than the refresh, VSync is enabled. If the FPS falls below, it’s disabled, thus preventing some input lag issues from arising.
Fast Sync : Fast Sync is a more advanced form of Adaptive VSync from Nvidia that enables VSync when necessary and adds in automatic triple buffering to pick the best frame data possible. It takes a lot of power to use but helps fix a lot of VSync issues as well.
Enhanced Sync : Enhanced Sync is AMD’s version of Fast Sync. It disables VSync when the frame rate drops below a monitor’s refresh rate to prevent related problems.
Is VSync better than G-Sync or FreeSync? Rich Shibley/Digital Trends G-Sync and FreeSync provide quality features. While VSync works, it gives the minimum features.
Nvidia’s G-Sync and AMD’s FreeSync aim to improve on VSync abilities. Both GPU technologies work to sync refresh rates and data with your GPU’s frame rate. The companies wanted to end problems with VSync, particularly image precision and uniformity, and tears. Essentially, G-Sync and FreeSync are more effective versions of the VSync software. If they are available to you, we suggest trying them out.
However, these technologies are compatible with your graphics card and monitor. Most monitors have G-Sync or FreeSync, but there’s minimal support. Since they are competing software , you’ll have difficulty finding a monitor that uses both. In the end, you will likely have to attempt to match your monitor’s capabilities to your GPUs. As long as you understand both units’ technical specs before purchasing, this is relatively easy to accomplish.
Who can use G-Sync and FreeSync? Most, if not all, modern Nvidia and AMD graphics cards offer access to either G-Sync or FreeSync. VSync, on the other hand, should be available to pretty much everyone — if your PC can handle games, it can support VSync.
Nvidia users will need at least a GTX 650 Ti Boost GPU for basic G-sync compatibility and a GTX 1050 or higher for G-Sync HDR. This means that if you own one of the best graphics cards , such as a Nvidia GeForce RTX 4070 , you will definitely have access to G-Sync. However, keep in mind that your monitor matters too, as only some monitors support G-Sync. G-Sync is available on Windows 7, Windows 8.1, Windows 10, and Windows 11.
AMD FreeSync is also fairly accessible. Not only can it be used by AMD GPU owners, but some Nvidia GPUs support it too. In order to run AMD FreeSync on a Radeon graphics card, you will need at least an AMD Radeon RX 200 series GPU. FreeSync is also available on compatible desktop AMD Ryzen APUs.
How to enable VSync? If you have a graphics card that supports VSync, you can easily enable it to ensure smooth performance on most displays. VSync can be activated either through the AMD FreeSync (AMF) technology or Nvidia graphics drivers. Alternatively, you can toggle the VSync setting within the graphics options of your game.
To guide you through the process, here’s a simple step-by-step guide for enabling VSync using the Nvidia Control Panel on your PC: Kunal Khullar / Digital Trends Begin by selecting the Start button and typing Nvidia Control Panel into the search bar. Select Enter to launch the Nvidia Control Panel.
Once the Nvidia Control Panel is open, you’ll find the option to manage 3D settings on the left-hand side of the control panel.
Select the Vertical Sync option, which is located under the Global Settings tab.
If it’s not already enabled, simply select On from the drop-down menu to activate VSync. You can also let a 3D application, like games, decide whether it wants to enable the feature or not.
Editors' Recommendations Nvidia’s new GPUs could be right around the corner Nvidia RTX 4090 prices are skyrocketing as stocks run seriously low Nvidia’s RTX Super might be a massive boost at no extra cost What is NVMe? Everything you need to know about high-speed storage AMD has another new GPU that it says can beat the RTX 4060 Ti Gaming GPUs Computing It's no news that the power connector on one of Nvidia's best graphics cards may sometimes melt, and yet, this is still new. Typically, the 12VHPWR connector found in the RTX 4090 would either melt quickly or not at all. Bad news for those who thought they were out of the woods and safe from the problem -- it appears that the RTX 4090 can still melt after a year of usage.
Will the saga of RTX 4090 melting connectors never end? It seems not. When the card was initially launched a year ago, the reports of melting cables at the GPU side started cropping up, but then, slowly died down. Now, however, Byogore on Reddit posted a photo of a melted connector on the PCMR subreddit. After working fine for a year, the user started experiencing issues and noticed that the connector had melted.
Computing According to the latest round of leaks, Nvidia may be readying an RTX 4080 Ti, set to come out in the first few months of 2024. While such a GPU would definitely rank high among the best graphics cards, it's not exactly necessary right now -- there are plenty of high-end GPUs floating around. There is one reason I would like to see an RTX 4080 Ti, though; to push down the price of the RTX 4080.
MEGAsizeGPU, who is a frequent speculator in the graphics card space, shared over the weekend that an RTX 4080 Super, or maybe Ti, will come out in just a few months. Given Nvidia's current naming convention in this generation, a Ti card seems more likely. As per MEGAsizeGPU, the card will be based on Nvidia's flagship AD102 chip and will have a power consumption below 450 watts. The other specs are a mystery, but I wouldn't be surprised if Nvidia added some more VRAM to the card -- 20GB seems likely. The bump from AD103 to AD102 should also deliver a decent upgrade in CUDA core counts -- dare I say in the 12,000 to 13,000 range? Computing AMD's FidelityFX Super Resolution (FSR) is growing up. The new FSR 3 feature promises to generate frames and multiply your performance, finally providing Nvidia's Deep Learning Super Sampling (DLSS) tech with a challenge.
The feature was announced nearly a year ago, but we've just seen the first games to support FSR 3 arrive. To bring you up to speed, here's everything you need to know about FSR 3, including how it works and what GPUs are supported.
What is FSR 3? FSR 3 is the third and latest version of AMD’s FidelityFX Super Resolution. Building upon the foundation of FSR 2's upscaling capabilities, FSR 3 introduces frame generation that allows the system to create entirely new in-game frames and present them to the user, which ultimately enhances the frames per second (fps). It is claimed to offer up to twice the frame rate as its predecessor.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
