Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Features Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Why it’s a surprisingly good time to buy a GPU right now By Monica J. White Close Getting a good deal on a GPU is all about timing. Buy at the wrong time, and you’ll end up overpaying.
Why is now the time to buy a GPU? Nvidia RTX 40-series dips under retail price AMD, AMD everywhere But I have good news for you. I’ve been closely monitoring GPU prices as we move through the final quarter of the year, and I’m seeing some really solid deals out there, with many of the best graphics cards coming in under their retail price. If you’ve been thinking of buying a graphics card , now is turning out to be a surprisingly good time.
Why is now the time to buy a GPU? Jacob Roach / Digital Trends The times when graphics cards used to sell for 300% above the list price are long behind us. However, for the better part of 2022 and 2023, it was still hard to pick out a GPU to buy. It almost made me miss the GPU shortage — almost.
Whatever you do, don’t buy an Nvidia GPU right now This is the cheapest GPU that’s still worth buying Why it’s still a good time to buy an M2 MacBook Air Before AMD and Nvidia filled out their respective lineups, we were mostly faced with a list of GPUs where something was always lacking. The RTX 4090 was there, but terribly expensive. The RTX 4080 followed, with solid performance and terrible value. AMD’s RX 7900 XTX and RX 7900 XT were great in their own right, but the mainstream sector was severely lacking. Nvidia’s offerings were overpriced, and AMD’s — well, they’re nonexistent.
Those days are over now.
Both AMD and Nvidia have filled out their respective lineups. We now have GPUs ranging from the budget-friendly RTX 4060 and RX 7600 to the monstrous RTX 4090 – and they’re all in stock.
While Nvidia isn’t exactly known for being budget-friendly, certain recent releases have pushed a few of those GPUs under their recommended list price. Some of those cards started out as fairly overpriced, so it’s nice to see the market even things out based on supply and demand. This is now the cheapest most of them have ever been.
AMD has seen some hefty price cuts too, and unlike Nvidia, it has a viable selection of GPUs from this current generation, as well as from the previous one. There are plenty of AMD cards still in stock, and in many cases, it might make more sense to buy RDNA 2 than RDNA 3.
AMD is its own worst enemy right now in that regard.
We’re swimming in GPUs that are as affordable as they’re likely to be for some time. We’ve heard rumors of Nvidia releasing RTX 40 Super cards soon , but until that happens, further price cuts are unlikely. But with current-gen cards having lost their initial post-launch price bumps, and next-gen cards a long way away, now is the time to buy.
If you’re wondering which to buy, read on to see my recommendations for what to buy and what to avoid right now.
Nvidia RTX 40-series dips under retail price Jacob Roach / Digital Trends If you’re in the market for an Nvidia GPU, the only GPU to really stay away from for pricing reasons is now the RTX 4090.
 Not only was it expensive to begin with, but its price has actually gone up in recent months, so you’d have to pay up to $200 to $300 extra on average to get it. However, if your heart is set on the 4090, it might be better to buy it now than later, as the U.S. government has recently restricted the shipment of this GPU to China and other countries, and the market has responded immediately with rising prices and low stock levels. Either before it gets worse or wait it out for a few months until things get back to normal.
Things are a lot better when we move down to the RTX 4080.
 This is one of the worst-value GPUs in this generation, having launched at $1,200, but you can find it for as little as now. That’s a far more reasonable (albeit still inflated) price for a solid 4K gaming GPU. Chances are that this GPU might drop even lower if Nvidia really does launch an RTX 4080 Super , but that probably won’t be until next year.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Most of the midrange options have dipped under MSRP too, which is a blessing, given that a lot of them were victims of Nvidia’s pricing strategy.
 The RTX 4070 Ti offers modest savings, with some models dropping down to.
 Many RTX 4070s are in the same boat, now priced at around , down from $600.
When it comes to Nvidia’s RTX 4060 Ti , be it the 8GB or the 16GB version, both the GPUs could really use a bit of a price cut as they’re not overly impressive. The 8GB version launched at $400 and can be found at from a less well-known manufacturer like Galax. The 16GB cards are few and far apart, but they’re close in performance to the 8GB version due to the narrow memory bus, so they’re not really worth it. But there are a couple of them priced at , knocking an extra $50 off of the MSRP.
The RTX 4060 generally holds up well, but it was never as poor a value as the Ti models to begin with. You can find it for , but most models are around the $300 MSRP.
What about last-gen RTX 30-series cards? My advice is to stick to current-gen options with Nvidia. A lot of the cards are now extremely overpriced or out of stock entirely. You may be able to find renewed models at a reasonable price, and the Ti cards are pretty cheap compared to their MSRPs, but they’re getting increasingly hard to come by.
AMD, AMD everywhere Jacob Roach / Digital Trends If the price tag on the RTX 4080 still puts you off, the AMD equivalent is also cheaper than ever right now, although the savings aren’t quite as big. You can get the RX 7900 XTX for , and it’s a great option for 4K if you don’t mind passing on Nvidia’s DLSS 3.
 The RX 7900 XT was overpriced to begin with and saw a bigger price cut, dropping from $900 to $800.
AMD’s RX 7800 XT is actually slightly above MSRP right now — the only card in its lineup that hasn’t been discounted. However, the RX 6800 XT is only about 7% to 10% slower and costs , and the RX 6800 is down to.
 Either one of those three cards will work well in a 1440p setting, although, of course, the is the best pick. The RX 7700 XT sells at MSRP and is easy to overlook with the other three being priced similarly.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends The RX 7600 launched as a cheaper rival to the RTX 4060 and immediately had its price slashed by a little bit. You can easily grab it for right now, and there are other GPUs from RDNA 2 that are similar in performance and price, too. Take your pick: There’s the RX 6650 XT for , the RX 6600 XT for , and the RX 6600 for.
Aside from the above, AMD has several interesting RDNA 3 cards that have dropped in price drastically over the last year or so. The RX 6950 XT is a strong contender for a 4K gaming GPU. It’ll be worse at ray tracing than its successors, sure, but it’ll also save you $300 since it costs right now. The RX 6900 XT makes a lot less sense as it’s priced at about the same.
Let’s not forget the RX 6700 XT, which is a solid alternative to Nvidia’s 4060 Ti and costs.
 The only downside is the lack of DLSS 3, which has been a major selling point for Nvidia in this generation.
But really, no matter which GPU you pick, it’s refreshing to see cards in stock and well below list price. Let’s hope that this trend will stick around and make PC gaming a little more affordable going forward.
Editors' Recommendations Don’t wait for new GPUs. It’s safe to buy a gaming laptop now Nvidia’s new GPUs could be right around the corner I’m scared of next-gen Nvidia GPUs, and you should be too Why AMD’s biggest competitor is no longer Nvidia AMD has another new GPU that it says can beat the RTX 4060 Ti Features GPUs Computing According to the latest round of leaks, Nvidia may be readying an RTX 4080 Ti, set to come out in the first few months of 2024. While such a GPU would definitely rank high among the best graphics cards, it's not exactly necessary right now -- there are plenty of high-end GPUs floating around. There is one reason I would like to see an RTX 4080 Ti, though; to push down the price of the RTX 4080.
MEGAsizeGPU, who is a frequent speculator in the graphics card space, shared over the weekend that an RTX 4080 Super, or maybe Ti, will come out in just a few months. Given Nvidia's current naming convention in this generation, a Ti card seems more likely. As per MEGAsizeGPU, the card will be based on Nvidia's flagship AD102 chip and will have a power consumption below 450 watts. The other specs are a mystery, but I wouldn't be surprised if Nvidia added some more VRAM to the card -- 20GB seems likely. The bump from AD103 to AD102 should also deliver a decent upgrade in CUDA core counts -- dare I say in the 12,000 to 13,000 range? Computing A long-forgotten Intel Arc GPU just made another reappearance, and this time around, it might actually be for real. Intel's Arc A580 popped up on Geizhals, an Austrian price comparison site, and it's even available in two different models. While the Arc A580 doesn't have what it takes to compete with some of the best graphics cards, it could turn out to be a solid budget-friendly option if priced appropriately.
The Intel Arc A580 was announced what feels like forever ago. Intel mentioned it several times prior to the launch of its A770 and A750, and it was included in the marketing materials for the Arc A770, Arc A750, and Arc 380. It always seemed like a good middle ground between those three GPUs, bridging the gap between the top of the lineup and the entry-level A380. But it never materialized, and Intel hasn't said a word about it since.
Computing When you look at some of the best graphics cards of today, it's easy to forget that Nvidia and AMD (and more recently, Intel) weren't always the only players in the GPU game. While both AMD and Nvidia have committed their fair share of GPU blunders, they're not the only two brands behind some of the worst GPUs of all time.
Let's take a look at some of the graphics cards that will make you appreciate the current GPU landscape, and yes, even including cards that are borderline mistakes. (Hello, RTX 4060 Ti.) Here are the GPUs that did it terribly, terribly wrong, even though each had something interesting or innovative to bring to the table.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
