Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Best color laser printers for 2023: tested and reviewed By Alan Truly Close The best color laser printers can be a great investment, saving you quite a bit of time and money. For shoppers on a budget, you might find color laser printers surprisingly affordable in the long-term, offering low cost-per-page for black-and-white as well as color documents. That's why you need the best color laser printer for home offices with high-volume printing.
If you need to scan documents for record-keeping and photo capture or want the convenience of a color copier, the best all-in-one color laser printer is an essential tool for your small business or personal use.
Quick Overview HP Laserjet Pro MFP M283cdw: Best color laser printer HP Color LaserJet Pro 4301fdw: Best all in one color laser printer Brother HL-L3230CDW: Best color laser printer for small business Canon imageClass MF656Cdw: Best color laser printer for photos Brother MFC-L3710CW: Best Brother laser printer for photos Brother HL-L3270CDW: Best budget color laser printer HP Color LaserJet Enterprise MFP M480f : Best color laser printer for medium-sized businesses Kyocera M6630cidn: Best all-in-one scalable laser printer for offices Why you should trust us Digital Trends has been reviewing printers for 20 years , testing which offers the best quality and fastest speeds. We check the long-term value of each printer, so you'll know in advance if a low-cost printer has outrageous toner costs.
Printers are complex machines that require a good understanding of the technology to make a solid recommendation. Reviews also highlight problems with compatibility and other details that can become deal-breakers when you depend on particular features.
Key considerations while selecting the best color laser printer for you There are several key factors to consider when choosing a color laser printer. Purchase price matters, but long-term costs can add up quickly. Review the entire list to find the perfect printer.
Print quality and color fidelity If you're choosing color, you need more than a hard copy; you want your document to look great. You still need razor-sharp text but it's essential for colors to match what you see on screen and in photos without banding or streaks.
Speed and economy A laser printer should be fast and efficient with low running costs. Otherwise, you'd choose a more versatile and lower-cost inkjet printer.
Special features All-in-one printers include scan, copy, and sometimes fax functions, filling multiple roles in your office. Many printers offer duplex printing (double-sided), an automatic document feeder (ADF), multiple paper trays, Wi-Fi connectivity, and walk-up printing. These details could be critically important when making a purchase decision.
More More Image used with permission by copyright holder HP LaserJet Pro MFP M283cdw Best color laser printer Easy mobile and touchscreen controls Sturdy design that saves space compared to larger laser printers Works with Alexa All-in-one model with scanning and faxing May be too expensive for some home offices Why you should buy this: It's the best color laser printer you can buy.
Who's it for: Small business owners and those with a home office.
Why we picked the HP LaserJet Pro MFP M283cdw: Just because you want a powerful, feature-rich color printer at home, that doesn't mean it needs to be bulky. The HP LaserJet Pro MFP M283cdw has a simple, modern design, including a helpful 2.7-inch color touchscreen for controls. But it still has enough power (along with scanning, copying, and faxing capabilities) to handle jobs for a small business or home office without breaking a sweat.
At 22 pages per minute, it's not quite as fast as some larger printers, but it's compatible with any way you prefer to print or scan, including plenty of mobile and wireless options. There's even Alexa compatibility for tying it to routines or giving voice commands. If you're looking for a reliable office laser printer that's ready for serious work, we suggest starting here.
Alan Truly / Digital Trends HP Color LaserJet Pro 4301fdw Best all-in-one color laser printer Lightning fast print and scan speeds Good print quality Two paper trays Easy setup and use Reliable operation Color cost per page is just OK No borderless printing Why you should buy this: It's a modern, eco-friendly color laser printer with great speed and quality.
Who's it for: Home offices and small businesses that need documents printed quickly.
Why we picked the HP Color LaserJet Pro 4301fdw: With blistering fast print and scan speeds, the HP Color LaserJet Pro 4301fdw makes short work of challenging jobs. It prints 35ppm for monochrome and color documents and scans with its ADF at 31ppm.
Color documents look great and photos come out nice even on plain paper. A USB port allows walk-up printing via a thumb drive, making the LaserJet Pro 4301fdw an excellent all-in-one printer for home and office.
10 best laptops of 2023: tested and reviewed One of the best color laser printers just got a bit cheaper The best October Prime Day laser printer deals happening now Brother/Amazon Brother HL-L3230CDW Best color laser printer for small business Speedy printing at 25 ppm Automatic duplex printer Supports high yield toners No MFP functionality Why you should buy this: High-capacity toner, very fast print speeds, and a wealth of wireless connectivity options.
Who it’s for: Offices with large print volumes or anyone who needs speedy, colorful prints.
Why we picked the Brother HL-L3230CDW: If you need to take your Brother printer to the next level, the Brother HL-L3230CDW is a fantastic upgrade. It has a reliable printing speed of up to 25ppm, and high-capacity toner cartridges. The printer has onboard controls and you have your choice of wireless, Ethernet, and USB connections.
It has a 250-sheet paper tray. While it's compact, the printer can still handle a variety of papers including card stock and envelopes via its manual slot.
Canon Canon Color imageClass MF656Cdw Best color laser printer for photos Solid photo and text printing quality Large touchscreen control panel Excellent UI and navigation Expensive cost-per-page for color No expandable paper input capabilities for larger offices Why you should buy this: Great color print quality in a multifunction printer.
Who it’s for: Anyone who needs to print or copy photos and graphics quickly.
Why we picked the Canon Color imageClass MF656Cdw: Laser printers are not photo printers, per se, but models like the Canon Color imageClass MF656Cdw go a long way to blurring the lines between them, which makes sense coming from a company like Canon, known for its cameras. While we wouldn't recommend it for photographers, the MF656Cdw is hard to beat for an office that needs to make or reproduce documents that contain graphics and photos.
While the 22 ppm print speed of the Canon Color imageClass MF656Cdwdoesn't match the HP M283fdw, it does offer duplex printing, copying, and scanning from its 50-sheet document feeder. With a monthly duty cycle of 2,500 pages, it can also hold up to the standard printing demands of small to medium-sized offices.
In addition to USB, print jobs can be sent wirelessly via Apple AirPrint, Mopria, Wi-Fi direct, and Canon's Print Business app.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Brother MFC-L3710CDW Best Brother laser printer for photos Solid print quality for text and photos Mobile and wireless printing support Great choice for home offices No auto-duplexing capabilities Toner can be expensive Why you should buy this: Fast, full-color laser prints at an affordable price.
Who's it for: Home and small office customers with moderate print volume needs.
Why we picked the Brother MFC-L3710CDW: Laser color printers aren't cheap. Short of buying an older printer, this affordable Brother makes for a great addition to a home office or small business. It has a lot of the same features that come in more expensive models, such as a 3.7-inch touchscreen for controls, and a 250-sheet capacity tray.
With a numeric pad for scanning and copying, this printer is ready to take on your office's print jobs, but the space-saving design makes it versatile enough to place desk-side or in a dedicated copy and print room. You'll benefit from the automatic document feeder, high-yield toner options, and the ability to print from and scan to popular cloud apps and services.
More Brother/Best Buy Brother HL-L3270CDW Best budget color laser printer Supports printing from apps like Google Drive and Dropbox Variety of connectivity options including wireless, USB, mobile Can print on different kinds of paper like card stock or envelopes No scanning or faxing features Why you should buy this: It's the best budget-friendly option for offices with limited space.
Who it’s for: Small and home offices.
Why we picked the Brother HL-L3270CDW If all you need is a printer that prints quickly, fits perfectly in your small home office, and doesn't break the bank, then this is the printer for you. With the Brother HL-L3270CDW you can expect print speeds of up to 25 pages per minute for both black and color pages, a wide variety of connectivity options including wireless and Ethernet, and a 250-sheet max paper tray that can support different paper sizes and types like envelopes or card stock. It's a great, affordable option for simple, straightforward print jobs.
HP HP Color LaserJet Enterprise MFP M480f Best color laser printer for medium-sized businesses Compact size with loaded features Solid security features Smartphone app support Higher than average cost-per-page print costs Why you should buy this: HP's Color LaserJet Pro MFP M480fis a speedy all-in-one printer that's designed for printing and digital document archiving with intuitive support for cloud storage.
Who it’s for: Small businesses that need a speedy color laser printer.
Why we picked the HP Color LaserJet Pro MFP M480f: Workgroups and businesses that don't have much office space to spare to house a large printer will appreciate HP's Color LaserJet Pro MFP M480f. The MFP M480f adds multifunctional features that will help with your office's document needs, including a built-in flatbed scanner, automatic document feeder, and duplexing capabilities. The M480f is a well-rounded multifunction printer that can still output up to 29 pages per minute in black and white or color.
This speedy but compact number has built-in Wi-Fi and Bluetooth Low-Energy, and mobile printing is supported across a number of devices and platforms. The big limiting factor on this printer is its small 250-sheet paper input tray, though larger offices with bigger print jobs can upgrade to the optional 550-sheet tray. Duplexing is supported to help save paper and the environment. A front-facing USB port makes it easy to print from a storage drive. The printer can print from or scan to a variety of cloud providers, making it easy for digital document archiving. Businesses on a limited print budget can invest in high-yield toner cartridges for a lower per-page print cost.
More Kyocera/JTF Kyocera M6630cidn Color MFP Best all-in-one scalable laser printer for offices Fast print speeds Duplexing supported Economical operating costs Large size takes up space Why you should buy this: Kyocera delivers fast printing speeds and affordable operating costs with its M6630cidn all-in-one MFP.
Who it’s for: Small and medium businesses.
Why we picked the Kyocera M6630cidn: If you need a fast printer that does it all for your business documentation needs, then the Kyocera M6630cidn should be at the top of your list. This robust printer is scalable with its "multi-purpose tray," making it ideal for organizations large and small, and it can support documents as large as 8.5 x 14 inches. Print speeds are as fast as 30 pages per minute, meaning this printer can churn our large print jobs in no time! As a multi-function printer, the M6630cidn can handle scanning, copying, and faxing for your office, and can also support mobile printing with the companion smartphone app. For offices with heavier print volume, Kyocera's high yield cartridges keep things economical and help to save your business money on print costs.
Frequently Asked Questions Laser printers are better for text documents, as they produce crisp lines even at very small font sizes. Over time, they are also cheaper to run, as you can get more prints per dollar spent on toner than you can with inkjet ink. Laser printers also offer faster printing speeds and can save some serious time on large print jobs.
However, laser printers and the toner they use carry higher upfront costs. If you don’t print very often, you can buy a cheap inkjet printer — some are as low as $30 or so — and it may take a long time before its higher operational costs catch up to the higher initial cost of a laser printer. For smaller print jobs, the faster pages-per-minute rate of a laser printer also won’t be much of an advantage. If you’re looking to save money in the long term and need a compelling alternative to laser printers, consider inkjet solutions that rely on tanks for ink rather than cartridges, like Epson’s EcoTank series.
 Not only will tanks be better for the environment through less waste, but they will save you money for larger print jobs.
Color laser printers may also be a little slower compared to comparable monochrome versions because of how the colored toner process works. To create color, most color laser printers use a combination of cyan, magenta, yellow, and black. They make one pass for each toner color (methods here can vary, but many use multiple rollers), which naturally takes longer.
While color laser printers have gotten much better at handling photographs, if you’re looking to make detailed, color-accurate photographic prints to hang on your wall, display in a gallery, or sell to customers, a high-end inkjet photo printers is still the way to go (or simply outsource the work to a photo lab ). Beyond print quality, inkjet photo printers can also handle a wider variety of paper types and sizes compared to laser printers. A color laser printer will handle inline photos and graphics in documents just fine. Most modern color laser printers, especially those made for small offices, will be able to handle different types of print jobs, from standard documents to labels and card stock.
Yes. As with inkjet printers, wireless connectivity has become very common on color laser printers. However, not every model will support every brand of wireless printing tech. The Brother HL-3170CDW supports Apple AirPrint for iPhone and iPad users and has an app for Android users, for example, while the Dell C1760NW offers mobile printing through a proprietary app.
This will depend on the wireless features of your printer. Many printers today support Apple AirPrint, which makes it easy to print from an iPad or iPhone to a printer on your Wi-Fi network. Not all apps support AirPrint, but many do — including non-Apple apps.
Android phones and tablets can also connect to most Wi-Fi printers, from Google apps like Docs, Sheets, and Chrome, as well as from third-party apps.
If your printer does not support mobile printing but does feature Wi-Fi, your printer manufacturer may offer its own iOS and Android app for printing from your mobile device. Some models even feature USB ports so you can print directly off of a USB drive without having to connect a mobile device or PC.
This depends on how much you print. Toner cartridges often have yields of 2,000 pages or more (check the specifications of your printer for your model’s specific yield). For light home use, that means many people could easily go a year or more without replacing toner. For office use, the replacement interval will be shorter, but toner could still last a few months.
The first step is to print efficiently; that is, double-check your page layout settings and make sure everything is correct before you hit that print button. You can also save money by preventing wasted color toner by setting a black and white printer as the default.
When it is time to reorder, you can save money by buying third-party toner cartridges. However, buying third-party toner likely isn’t recommended by your printer’s manufacturer, but so long as you make sure it’s compatible with your printer, it should work just fine. However, some printers, like the HP model above, look for a toner that uses a special chip identifying it as original equipment. HP warns that while some other cartridges may work today, they may not in the future.
Yes. Many all-in-one laser printers can scan, copy, and fax documents. If you’re doing a lot of faxing, copying, or scanning, be sure to choose a printer with an automatic document feeder (ADF), and if you want to do double-sided scans and double-sided prints, a model that has a duplex ADF and duplex printing will be best. Double-sided prints can also help save money if cost is a concern. Note that not all all-in-ones — also called multifunction printers — have fax modems, so be sure to check the specs before you buy. If you need a multifunction printer, be sure to check out our best picks for all-in-one printers.
To find the best color laser printers, we factor in criteria such as speed, price, maintenance costs, and any unique features that help them one-up the competition.
Our selections are based on our long- and short-term testing; experience with earlier models; familiarity with the company’s technologies; consultation with industry experts, fellow journalists, and users; online forums; lab results; and other third-party reviews. We look across the board — not just at our own experiences — to find consensus on what we think are the best-performing printers you can currently buy. We also look at list pricing to determine if a product is worth the cost. We will even recommend printers that aren’t new, provided the features are still best-in-class.
The printer market evolves constantly, with manufacturers either introducing better models with new features or basic upgrades. So, you can expect our picks to change as well. But don’t worry — the models you see here will be with you for some time, and if we anticipate better models on the horizon, we will state that upfront to help you decide whether you should buy now or wait.
When searching for a color laser printer for home use, you probably don't want a 100-pound beast meant to survive the rigors of a shared work environment.
A compact, budget-friendly color laser might be ideal. Printing photos is a common use for home printers and some models have good quality even on plain paper.
The first laser printers were monochrome, but most manufacturers offer several color laser printers that provide great quality for color documents.
However, some handle photos better than others. For photographic-quality color pictures, it's hard to beat an inkjet printer that's optimized for photos.
Laser printers will continue to be manufactured for the foreseeable future. However, there are some concerns about their environmental impact.
Epson, for example, is phasing out laser printers worldwide by 2026, citing the significant energy required to generate enough heat to fuse toner onto paper.
Meanwhile, HP has found ways to make laser printers more eco-friendly by altering toner formulations and improving efficiency.
If you find our top picks just aren't the right fit for your specific needs, though, there are other color laser printers worth checking out. If you'd like an all-in-one that can handle scanning , copying, and faxing documents, or you simply just need a more affordable model, be sure to take a look at the other printers we've placed on this list.
If you're looking for additional savings, check out our guides to the best cheap printer deals and best laser printer deals available now.
Editors' Recommendations Best Black Friday printer deals on laser, inkjet and photo printers 9 best monitors for 2023: tested and reviewed The best October Prime Day 3D printer deals we’ve found 10 best gaming monitors of 2023: tested and reviewed The best cheap printers for 2023 Best Products Computing There are several great options if you're searching for the best desktop computer, but Dell's XPS Desktop (8960) still takes the crown in 2023. It's highly flexible, decently priced, and comes with super powerful hardware. There are desktop PCs to pick from, though.
We've reviewed hundreds of desktop PCs from brands like Dell, Apple, Lenovo, and HP, but only a few truly stand out. These are the computers to look for when making your next upgrade. For our picks, we tried to balance price, performance, build quality, and our experience actually using the desktop. Make sure to read our explainer about how we review desktops to get an inside look at our evaluation process.
Computing While it may not be often, the times when you need a printer do happen, and you'll run into a spot of trouble unless you have access to one. Not just for photos, but also important documents, reports, and a host of other activities -- maybe your kids want some new coloring pages, for example? Anyone considering a new printer is wise to look at the differences between inkjet and laser so they can find the best printer for their needs. For many people, a laser printer is the best option thanks to their fast speeds and reliability. If that sounds like what you need, read on while we take you through the best laser printer deals available right now.
HP LaserJet M209dwe Printer -- $89, was $149 The HP LaserJet M209dwe Printer promises to offer the fastest two-sided printing in its class. Designed for small and home offices, it has a small footprint so you can easily find a home for it. Capable of providing high-quality black and white documents with laser precision, it has a speed as fast as 6.9 seconds for the first page out and ready. A monthly duty cycle of up to 20,000 pages is possible with a recommended monthly page volume of 200 to 2,000 pages so it's well-suited for your small office's needs. Count on up to 30 pages per minute to ensure your report is printed swiftly.
Computing Despite a world that has increasingly gone digital, there's been a renewed interest in printers. With more people running a home business or working from home, multifunction or all-in-one printers are once again finding their place as an important tool in the home. These printers not only allow you to print on demand, they also come with faxing and scanning capabilities.
In essence, multifunction printers are the smaller cousins of the bulkier copiers you might see at the office. The relatively compact size makes these flexible printers a convenient tool for personal projects, labels, and other printing needs. Here are some of the best multifunction printers on the market today.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
