Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Best laser printer deals: HP, Epson, Xerox, Canon starting at $130 By Lucas Coll and Andrew Morrisey Close While it may not be often, the times when you need a printer do happen, and you’ll run into a spot of trouble unless you have access to one. Not just for photos, but also important documents, reports, and a host of other activities — maybe your kids want some new coloring pages, for example? Anyone considering a new printer is wise to look at the differences between inkjet and laser so they can find the best printer for their needs. For many people, a laser printer is the best option thanks to their fast speeds and reliability. If that sounds like what you need, read on while we take you through the best laser printer deals available right now.
HP LaserJet M209dwe Printer — $89, was $149 HP LaserJet MFP M234dwe — $110, was $199 Canon D570 Wireless Printer — $130, was $180 Brother HL-L2350DW — $150, was $177 HP LaserJet Tank 2504dw — $150, was $320 Xerox B235/DNI — $210, was $330 Canon MF455dw Laser Printer with Fax — $270, was $370 Canon MF654Cdw — $300, was $400 HP LaserJet Pro MFP M182nw — $309, was $429 Xerox C230/DNI — $310, was $430 HP Color LaserJet Pro M255dw — $329, was $399 HP LaserJet Pro MFP 4101fdw with Fax — $379, was $539 Xerox Multifunctional C235/DNI — $400, was $580 HP Color LaserJet Pro MFP M283fdw — $429, was $549 HP Color LaserJet Pro MFP 4301fdn Printer — $599, was $699 HP LaserJet M209dwe Printer — $89, was $149 Image used with permission by copyright holder The HP LaserJet M209dwe Printer promises to offer the fastest two-sided printing in its class. Designed for small and home offices, it has a small footprint so you can easily find a home for it. Capable of providing high-quality black and white documents with laser precision, it has a speed as fast as 6.9 seconds for the first page out and ready. A monthly duty cycle of up to 20,000 pages is possible with a recommended monthly page volume of 200 to 2,000 pages so it’s well-suited for your small office’s needs. Count on up to 30 pages per minute to ensure your report is printed swiftly.
HP LaserJet MFP M234dwe — $110, was $199 Image used with permission by copyright holder The HP LaserJet MFP M234dwe is so inexpensive because it’s a refurbished model but as it’s refurbished by HP, you can be confident it still works great. It’s another laser printer with a small footprint, capable of printing up to 30 pages per minute with the first page out and ready in just 6.9 seconds. 200 to 2,000 monthly page volume is the recommended amount but the HP LaserJet MFP M234dwe goes further than just printing. It’s also a copier and scanner so it’s ideal for a busy home office environment. Automatic duplex printing and a 150-sheet input and 100-sheet output tray rounds of the specs.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
Canon D570 Wireless Printer — $130, was $180 Canon The Canon D570 Wireless Printer is capable of printing up to 28 pages per minute in black so it’s pretty fast. A 250-sheet capacity means you won’t have to worry about much maintenance either. It has a print quality of up to 1,200 dpi while there’s built-in duplex printing. It’s also a copier and scanner with Apple AirPrint enabled and wireless and mobile printing capabilities too. Effectively, it has all the advantages of a professional laser printer teamed up with commonly used features in the home.
Brother HL-L2350DW — $150, was $177 Brother Capable of printing 32 pages per minute, with flexible paper handling choices, and up to 250 sheets in the paper tray — with manual feed slot — this printer is more than ready for the big jobs. Whether you’re printing your next big manuscript, or several pages of your big annual report, this monochrome laser printer has you covered. It also features automatic two-sided printing to save paper, with a comparable toner save mode to cut down on the ink costs. Wireless printing from your smartphone or nearby devices is possible too, but if you only have USB available on a desktop, well you’re all set there. Connect and print however, and from wherever, you want.
HP LaserJet Tank 2504dw — $150, was $320 HP Capable of printing up to 5,000 monochrome pages with a full tank of toner, at a print speed of 23 pages per minute in black, this HP wireless and smart printer is a solid work companion. Its business-ready, reduces environmental impact, and connects with the HP Smart App for convenient and remote-access features. Dual-band WiFi with self reset options keeps it connected and ready to print, even after outages or power issues at the office. Plus, the 250 sheet input tray holds enough for most jobs, medium to large.
Xerox B235/DNI — $210, was $330 Xerox This monochrome — black and white — and multifunction printer is impressive to say the least. It can print 36 pages per minute in letter formats, and 34 pages per minute in standard A4. It’s easy to setup, with a small touchscreen that you can use to configure settings and start printing jobs. Moreover, like Xerox’s other printers, it’s mobile-ready and supports Apple AirPrint, Chromebook, Mopria, WiFi, and WiFi Direct. Access to optional and advanced document workflows is available through Xerox Workflow Central, ideal for work and business environments. The pre-installed starter cartridges will handle up to 700 prints before they need to be replaced.
Canon MF455dw Laser Printer with Fax — $270, was $370 Canon Designed for small and medium-sized businesses, the Canon MF455dw Laser Printer with Fax is able to print at up to 40 pages per minute in black. It has an expandable paper capacity of up to 900 sheets with a plain paper capacity of up to 250 sheets, 100 sheets multipurpose tray and optional cassette that holds up to 550 sheets. It also offers a 50-sheet duplex automatic document feeder. It’s tremendously efficient while still providing good print quality of 600 dpi resolution. A customizable 5-inch color touchscreen helps you get things done and there’s always tablet and smartphone printing too.
Canon MF654Cdw — $300, was $400 Image used with permission by copyright holder Another laser printer with an eye on business use, the Canon MF654Cdw can duplex print up to 22 pages per minute with a quick first print of 10.3 seconds. It offers a resolution of up to 1,200 x 1,200 even at six points or smaller. As well as that, you have a customizable 5-inch color screen for picking options easily, plus there’s a paper capacity of 250 sheets, a 1-sheet multipurpose tray, and a 50-sheet simplex automatic document feeder. Wireless printing along with printing on the move through numerous services is all an option too.
HP LaserJet Pro MFP M182nw — $309, was $429 HP Printing, check. Copying, check. Dual-band wireless, check. Printing speeds up to 17 pages per minute in black and color, check. This smart color printer is ready for a versatile array of projects, with its 150 paper tray, LCD panel with numeric keypad, and dynamic security support. Plus, it connects with the HP Smart App to give you more nuanced and remote-friendly controls.
Xerox C230/DNI — $310, was $430 Xerox Generally known for its commercial and enterprise options, this color laser printer from Xerox includes a bevy of smart functionality. For starters, it’s mobile-ready and works with Apple AirPrint, Chromebooks, Mopria, and has both WiFi and WiFi direct functionality built-in. When it comes to printing, it can produce 24 pages per minute in letter format, or 22 pages per minute in standard A4. It’s perfect for homes, an office, or a small business and it comes with pre-installed starter capacity ink cartridges — they have a print capacity of 500 pages.
HP Color LaserJet Pro M255dw — $329, was $399 Image used with permission by copyright holder The HP Color LaserJet Pro M255dw offers print speeds of up to 22 pages per minute in both black and color. It also has auto duplex printing with a 250-sheet paper tray. A 2.7-inch color touchscreen helps you pick out the right options for your needs. The first page comes out as fast as 10.2 seconds. Resolutions are at up to 600 x 600 dpi while the recommended monthly page volume is a hefty 150 to 2,500. Extensive mobile printing options guarantee flexibility and there are also plenty of security management options for your network.
HP LaserJet Pro MFP 4101fdw with Fax — $379, was $539 HP This printer does it all. Print, scan, copy, fax, and wireless connectivity are all possible. Plus, it features automatic two-sided printing to make the most of your paper, which, let’s face it, can be pricey these days. You can also take advantage of dual-sided scanning, will scans both sides of a paper or document in a single pass. It prints 42 pages per minute to deliver incredibly fast printing jobs. Whether you’re planning to install this printer in your home or office, you won’t be disappointed.
Xerox Multifunctional C235/DNI — $400, was $580 Xerox This color and multifunctional printer is excellent for compact work environment, or home, and personal use. Installation is super simple thanks to the Xerox Smart Start installer. Moreover, it’s mobile-ready and supports Apple AirPrint, WiFi, WiFi Direct, and Mopria. It will print up to 24 pages per minute in letter sizes, and 22 pages per minute in standard A4. It comes with pre-installed ink cartridges, which offer up to 500 prints before they need to be replaced with full-size cartridges. An easy-to-use touchscreen allows you to configure and change settings.
HP Color LaserJet Pro MFP M283fdw — $429, was $549 Image used with permission by copyright holder The HP Color LaserJet Pro MFP M283fdw does it all, from printing to copying, scanning, and faxing, and quickly too. It has a print speed of up to 22 pages per minute in black or color. There’s also auto duplex printing, a 250-sheet paper tray, and a 2.7-inch color touchscreen to simplify matters. The advantage here is its flexibility with multiple functions but we’re still pleased to see a resolution of up to 600 x 600 and a recommended monthly page volume of 150 to 2,500 pages.
HP Color LaserJet Pro MFP 4301fdn Printer — $599, was $699 Image used with permission by copyright holder The HP Color LaserJet Pro MFP 4301fdn Printer promises blazing-fast speeds while still offering professional-quality color prints. A speed of up to 35 pages per minute is possible here with the first page out at 9.1 seconds in black or 10 seconds in color. Up to 600 x 600 dpi is possible with either choice, while a recommended monthly page volume of 750 to 4,000 pages demonstrates that the HP Color LaserJet Pro MFP 4301fdn Printer means serious business. It has a 4.3-inch display that’s backlit and offers anti-glare properties so it’s clearer to see than most. It’s well suited for a business that needs to print often and quickly.
Editors' Recommendations Best Black Friday printer deals on laser, inkjet and photo printers Best desktop computer deals: The cheapest PC deals today One of the best color laser printers just got a bit cheaper The best October Prime Day laser printer deals happening now Best monitor deals: Gaming, office, curved, OLED and more Deals Cheapest Prices Work From Home Computing Dell is a trusted name in the computing industry and one of the best laptop brands, partly because of the reliability and performance of its Dell XPS laptops and desktop computers. These machines are designed to keep up with all of your daily activities by offering some of the latest components. If you're looking for Dell XPS deals, you've come to the right place because we've gathered the top offers that are available online. You're going to have to hurry in deciding which laptop or desktop computer to purchase though, as there's no telling how much time is left on these discounts before they expire.
If you miss out on any of these Dell XPS deals, you may want to check out Dell's other offers as there's a chance that there will be other discounts for Dell XPS devices.
Computing Microsoft Office reigns supreme in the world of Office programs. There are some budget options, but all of them can ultimately be summed up as "Office substitutions." Word, PowerPoint and Excel are perfect at what they do. They are so ubiquitous in office life, and the file formats are so standard, that they're necessary if you want to communicate and collaborate in the corporate world. They also aren't particularly cheap. Most modern programs have converted to a subscription service, meaning you have to pay every year instead of in one bundle. Below we've gathered some options that can cut the price down. We have lengthy free trials, some discounted plans, and options for students and businesses. Hopefully these can save you some money.
Microsoft 365 free trial If you're looking for a Microsoft Word free trial, you should know that the popular word processor is now synonymous, and rolled up into, Microsoft Office 365, the latest version of Microsoft's Office Suite. But the good news is that you can take advantage of an Office 365 free trial to give the suite a good ol' college try. New subscribers can sign up totally free, no credit card required, and cancel anytime. That will give you access to all of the apps in the suite, including Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook, and more.
Computing A wireless keyboard is a great accessory for any computer, and they come cheaper than many people realize. Many of the best wireless keyboards are quite affordable, but there’s even lower prices to be had right now, as quite a few wireless keyboards are seeing super low prices and impressive savings. Whether you want something stylish or more practical, something for gaming or everyday use, there’s likely to be a wireless keyboard deal currently available for you. Read onward for more details.
HP 330 wireless keyboard and mouse — $21, was $33 The HP 330 wireless keyboard allows you to remove the clutter of cables from your desktop at an incredibly affordable price. And it’s even more affordable when you consider a wireless mouse is included with it. This is a full-size keyboard with a numeric keypad. It has a low profile design that keeps keystrokes quick, comfortable, and accurate. You can easily pair this keyboard with one of the best desktop computers or use it to work more comfortably at a desk with one of the best laptops.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
