Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Best printer deals: Cheap printers on sale as low as $59 By Andrew Morrisey Close Whether you’re a student, professional, or anything in between, today’s world likely demands you find access to a printer from time to time. You can do so with some savings right now, as there are quite a few printer deals taking place. Among them you’ll find options that can compete with the best printers , as well as some well-priced lower end models. In fact, you can grab a printer for as little as $59 right now. We’ve tracked down all of the best printer deals currently taking place, so read onward for more details on how to save on the right printer for your needs.
Canon Pixma TR4722 — $59, was $79 Epson Expression Home XP-4205 — $62, was $115 HP DeskJet 4155e — $70, was $100 HP Envy 6055e — $80, was $130 HP OfficeJet Pro 8210 — $130, was $180 Brother HL-L2350DW — $150, was $177 HP LaserJet Tank 2504DW — $150, was $320 Epson EcoTank ET-2803 — $200, was $229 Xerox Multifunctional Color Laser Printer — $400, was $580 Epson EcoTank Photo ET-8550 — $700, was $800 Canon Pixma TR4722 — $59, was $79 Image used with permission by copyright holder While it isn’t one of the best all-in-one printers , it’s certainly one of the most affordable. There’s something to be said about a printer that can come in at such a low price yet still offer quality printing. This printer will work well in any home, apartment, or dorm room setting. It even goes beyond printing and is capable of making copies, scanning, and faxing. It connects easily to your devices with built-in wireless connectivity, and it can print at a rate of about nine pages per minute monochrome and four pages per minute color.
Epson Expression Home XP-4205 — $62, was $115 Image used with permission by copyright holder If you’re just looking to get a color printer in the house with little fuss, the Epson Expression Home XP-4205 is a good value play. Despite its price point, it has a lot of great features found on higher end Epson printers. This includes Epson’s leading-edge imaging technology, which produces crisp documents, vibrant photos, and more. It has hands-free, voice-activated printing capabilities, allowing you to easily print on the go using Alexa and Siri. It probably isn’t going to blow you away with print speeds, but it’s a color printer that does the job well and prints a high quality image.
HP DeskJet 4155e — $70, was $100 Image used with permission by copyright holder The HP DeskJet 4155e is a good entry-level printer. It’s got you covered if your printing needs are pretty basic, or if you don’t need a printer that can handle huge daily loads. This is a color InkJet printer, which makes it good for almost all uses. It can also make copies and scan in color, and it has mobile and wireless printing functionality. You can get set up quickly and easily with the HP Smart app that guides you through the setup process, and you can also use this app to print, scan and copy documents from your phone.
HP Envy 6055e — $80, was $130 HP While the HP Envy 6055e isn’t going to be able to take on the needs of a busy office, it certainly makes a more affordable alternative to many of the best InkJet printers.
 It has a lot to offer at is reasonable price point, including automatic two-sided printing, several printer resolutions to choose from, and the ability to scan and copy in color. This is also a wireless printer, so you can not only do these things from your computer, but from your phone or any other device you’ve got connected to the same wifi network as the printer.
HP OfficeJet Pro 8210 — $130, was $180 Image used with permission by copyright holder If you’re looking for a printer that can tackle heavier print loads, the HP OfficeJet Pro 8210 is a good place to start your search. It’s capable of printing up to 22 pages per minute in black and up to 18 pages per minute in color. It can also do so for up to five connected users. With the HP Smart app you can print, scan and copy from your phone, and you can do it from anywhere. This printer is capable of printing at professional quality levels, which is good for things like forms, reports, brochures and presentations. It also has an automatic document feeder.
Brother HL-L2350DW — $150, was $177 Brother The Brother HL-L2350DW is a no-nonsense printer that’s ready to just get the job done. It’s a monochrome printer, so don’t consider it if you have color printing needs. But if you want something simple and easy to use, this could be the printer for you. The Brother HL-L2350DW monochrome printer is compact and offers fastest in class print speeds, which come in at 32 pages per minute. Its feeder has a capacity of 250 sheets of paper, and it even has a Toner Save Mode that can help you save on toner cost.
HP LaserJet Tank 2504DW — $150, was $320 Image used with permission by copyright holder The HP LaserJet Tank is a good printer for bulk users, as it can print p to 23 pages per minute and has automatic duplex print capabilities. This, however, is not an all-in-one printer, so it doesn’t have the capability to scan, copy or fax. This is also a monochrome printer, meaning it lacks the ability to print in color. But i you’re in search of something simple, easy to use, and easy to set up, the HP LaserJet Tank should be a consideration. Its tray capacity is 250 sheets and it comes pre-filled with up to two years of Original HP Toner to get you going.
Epson EcoTank ET-2803 — $200, was $229 Image used with permission by copyright holder Fast, affordable, and easy to use, the Epson EcoTank makes a great printer option for families. It has an innovative, cartridge-free design that uses high-capacity refillable ink tanks. This allows you to worry less about running out ink as well as save on replacement ink. This printer features Epson’s high print quality, a high-resoluiton flatbet scanner, and a convenient color diplay. It’s an ideal basic home printer that can accommodate things ranging from homework assignments to work presentations.
Xerox Multifunctional Color Laser Printer — $400, was $580 Xerox If you’re in search of one of the best color laser prints that can fulfill the printing needs of small office, this Xerox multifunctional color laser printer should be a consideration. It’s perfect for compact work environments, and while it certainly can handle anything shared users may throw at it, it’s also not a bad option for a single person with a lot of print needs. It also is capable of making copies, scanning and faxing, with the ability to print up to 24 pages per minute monochrome and and color.
Epson EcoTank Photo ET-8550 — $700, was $800 Image used with permission by copyright holder Photographers will love seeing this printer available at a discount, as the Epson EcoTank Photo ET-8550 offers lab-quality, wide-format photo printing right at home. And despite its abilities as a photo printer, this is a printer all sorts of creatives could consider. Its high quality color printing capabilities are good for things graphics and brochures. It also as a high resolution flatbed scanner that can help you digitize older work and photographs. It connects via ethernet, USB, or over wifi, and the Epson SmartPanel App lets you print from virtually anywhere using an iOS or Android device.
Editors' Recommendations 75 best Amazon Black Friday deals on laptops, TVs, Apple, and more Best Chromebook Black Friday deals on HP, Lenovo, and more Best Lenovo laptop Black Friday deals: Chromebooks, gaming laptops, and more Best Black Friday laptop deals: Get a new workhorse from $129 Don’t miss this Meta Quest 2 Black Friday deal — Save 17% Deals Cheapest Prices Computing Lenovo is probably one of the best-known laptop makers, especially since they have an incredibly wide variety of them to choose from. That also means they have an excellent selection of gaming laptops, so you can hone in on something that fits your budget. That's especially the case with the ongoing early Black Friday deals that are seeing laptops being cut down in price across the board. That said, Lenovo's selection of gaming laptops is too wide for us to include all their active deals here, so we've selected some of our favorites for both AMD and Intel CPUs. Also, if you're not sure of where to start, you should check out our list of best Lenovo laptops for some good options.
Best Lenovo Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals (AMD) Lenovo has a wider selection of AMD gaming laptops, which is great if you want to go with something AMD-powered. Unfortunately, there aren't any good deals on Lenovo laptops with both an AMD CPU and GPU, but the selection below is wide enough to pick something that fits your needs a bit better. And, if you want something with an RTX 4090 on a budget, then the AMD version is probably the cheapest for Lenovo.
Web With so many Black Friday deals already under way, it can be tough to keep on top of everything. Walmart has dozens of different awesome deals so we've narrowed things down to the best Walmart Black Friday deals currently available. There's a little bit of everything here with discounts on TVs, headphones, laptops, coffee makers, and much more. The retailer is also having a massive Black Friday Lego sale. Whatever you're considering buying, keep reading while we take you through some great options.
Other retailers have started early too, so check out Amazon Black Friday deals and Best Buy Black Friday deals.
Web Best Buy is pulling out the big guns this Black Friday to compete with Amazon Black Friday deals, and we're seeing a lot of great deals across the board, whether you want a laptop, a vacuum cleaner, or a fitness tracker. Of course, there are a lot of deals to go through, so we've done our best to collect some of our favorite ones below so that you don't have to. We'll also be updating this page as more and better deals come along, so be sure to check back regularly. Also, be sure to check out the Walmart Black Friday sale, as it's also going all out in the hopes of competing with Amazon.
Top 3 Best Buy Black Friday Deals Nest Hub -- $60, was $100 Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
