Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best printers for 2023 By Jon Martindale , Chuong Nguyen and Alan Truly Close Whether you need a printer for a small business, home office, or school, it’s important to choose a device that makes printing quick and easy. Choosing the best printer can be complex due to the wide range of features available. Fortunately, our list of the best printers will give you a better idea of the features and innovations that match your needs, starting with the best all-around model, the HP OfficeJet Pro 9025e.
We cover a variety of printers in this guide, but if you already know that you the type you're looking for you might prefer our guide to the best cheap printers , best color laser printers , or best all-in-one printers.
More More More More Image used with permission by copyright holder HP OfficeJet Pro 9025e Best all around printer for home and office Solid print quality Fast speeds suitable for office printing Integrated MFP capabilities Automatic duplexing Small touchscreen ADF tray capacity could be bigger Why should you buy this? It's a solid all-around printer that's great for documents and photos.
Who is the HP OfficeJet Pro 9025e for? Homes and offices with moderate printing needs.
Why we picked the HP OfficeJet Pro 9025e: The prior generation HP OfficeJet Pro 9015 was a solid printer, and HP has made some improvements to make it an even better color inkjet this year with the OfficeJet Pro 9025e. Though the price has increased jumping to the most current model, you're getting faster print speeds — at up to 24 pages per minute on black-and-white prints — along with 1,200 dpi scans and an automatic document feeder with a tray capacity of 35 pages for quick scans and copies. The tray loader can handle up to 250 sheets of paper, and the printer can output to a variety of formats and paper sizes, including envelopes, cards, labels, and more. And with an output of up to 4800 x 1200 resolution for color jobs, this printer is versatile enough to handle photo printing as well.
With the OfficeJet Pro 9025e, HP includes six months of its Instant Ink subscription service, which monitors how much ink you have in your cartridge and sends you replacements when you're running low. While it may not be worth it to subscribe if you're not churning out regular print jobs, it's a nice feature for small offices with limited space in supply closets. Other features include Wi-Fi printing, a companion app to monitor print status, and support for AirPrint. HP also sells XL cartridges, which will help reduce printing costs in the long term. This printer averages about 3.3 cents per page, and it can also handle two-sided duplex printing to help reduce your paper cost.
Image used with permission by copyright holder HP LaserJet Tank 2504dw Affordable laser for monochrome document printing Fast printing speeds Affordable print costs Easy to use Wireless printing supported Monochrome only, no color Higher price than budget laser printers Why should you buy this? The HP LaserJet Tank 2504dw delivers fast print speeds and exceptionally affordable print costs.
Who is the HP LaserJet Tank 2504dw for? Home and small office users looking for economical monochrome printing.
Why we picked the HP LaserJet Tank 2504dw: HP's LaserJet Tank 2504dw might not come with all the bells and whistles or fancy designs as some other printers on our list, but it's designed to be an affordable workhorse for homes, home offices, and small businesses. A scanner isn't included and it can't print in color but it is a fast printer that can churn out documents at 23 pages per minute. The monochrome printing limits this printer to text-based jobs, like documents, homework, PDFs, shipping labels and invoices rather than photos and craft projects.
If you find yourself primarily printing black-and-white jobs, this printer's superpower is its affordable long-term cost and unique toner tank that reduces the cost of refilling toner. The cost per print is roughly 1 cent per page, depending on how much of the page is covered in the black toner. This printer is designed to be a low-cost investment, rendering crisp text with its laser-printing technology. HP gave the LaserJet Tank 2504dw a 250-sheet tray with automatic duplexing. It supports plain, heavy, and Bond paper at 60 to 163-gram weights.
The printer's affordable price and economical print costs make it a winner for those on a budget. HP borrowed a page from its refillable tanks for inkjet printing, creating a cost-effective and environmentally friendly, reloadable toner kit that you can purchase to refill, rather than replace, the toner cartridge on your LaserJet Tank 2504dw. Mobile printing, AirPrint, and wireless printing are all supported, and you can use the HP Smart mobile app to collect more information and adjust the settings of the LaserJet Tank 2504dw.
Best Chromebook Black Friday deals on HP, Lenovo, and more 11 Best Buy Black Friday laptop deals you can’t afford to miss today The best gaming PC Black Friday deals you can shop right now Image used with permission by copyright holder Epson WorkForce Pro WF-4730 Affordable workgroup printer with terrific print output Fast printing speeds Reliable inkjet quality Borderless prints up to 8.5-by-11-inch No auto-duplexing ADF capability Why should you buy this? It's a big MFP that does everything and does it well.
Who is the Epson WorkForce Pro WF-4730 for? Workgroups and small office users who need a fast printer.
Why we picked the Epson WorkForce Pro WF-4730: Epson's powerful Workforce all-in-one printer is a boon for offices that still need a reliable printing solution that can handle whatever they throw at it. It's designed to be highly accurate and uses technology to minimize heat so the printer lasts as long as possible while still handling frequent work.
It's also speedy for its size: The printer has a 20 ppm rating for printing and copying either B&W or color, and an ADF makes scans and copies speedy. The Epson WorkForce Pro WF-4730 also supports faxing for the rare times when you need to use that feature. Plus, the 500-sheet tray is larger than many printers offer at this size. The model also sports all the reliable Epson features we love, including a solid touchscreen for controls, app management for setup, built-in wireless support for the office network, and more.
More Image used with permission by copyright holder Brother HL-L3270CDW Fast duplexing wireless color laser printer Fast printing speeds Terrific printing quality Great for high-volume printing Expensive operating cost Why should you buy this? It's a great laser printer without any of the extraneous features.
Who is the Brother HL-L3270CDW Printer for? Office users who need a color laser printer.
Why we picked the Brother HL-L3270CDW: If you want a laser printer for your home or office, the Brother HL-L3270CDW is a safe bet, a compact device that you can get at an affordable price. This printer can blaze through jobs at a rate of 25 pages per minute, and it holds 250 sheets of paper. Both of these factors make it a good choice for offices, where people may need to print out a lot of documents without waiting for someone else’s job to finish.
The printer isn’t just fast; it also supports duplex printing for double-sided pages.
Setting up the Brother HL-L3270CDW is a cinch, and in addition to its Ethernet and USB connections, it also supports wireless printing; you can connect with Android and Apple devices, among others.
More Image used with permission by copyright holder Epson EcoTank ET-3760 Best way to save on ink costs Cost-effective ink refills Inkjet quality and reliability No cartridge waste Have to buy ink in bulk Small ADF tray Why should you buy this? You have moderate printing needs and don't want to spend a fortune on ink.
Who is the Epson EcoTank ET-3760 for? Small office users with limited ink budgets.
Why we picked the Epson EcoTank ET-3760: The EcoTank offers an alternative printer model that could be exactly what you're looking for: Instead of replacing ink cartridges, this printer uses compartments that you fill up with ink using the included bottles. It's less expensive than using ink cartridges and an ideal solution if you don't print color often but never want to run out of a cartridge at an inopportune time. The included bottles alone will keep a printer going for two years even with regular work.
The all-in-one printer isn't just about savings, though: It also offers a 15 ppm speed for black-and-white prints and an 8 ppm speed for color. There's a 250-sheet storage tray, plus a 30-page auto document feeder for scanning and similar tasks. Automatic two-sided printing is supported as well. It even works with Alexa, so you can give it voice commands to help prepare for a printing job.
The combination of features on the Epson EcoTank ET-3760 makes it ideal for a small business or home that may only have intermittent but important printing projects and wants to avoid the cycle of endlessly buying ink cartridges even when they aren't technically needed.
More Image used with permission by copyright holder Brother MFC-L2750DW Compact office printer Small footprint Loaded on features Physical buttons for easy control Boxy design Why should you buy this? It has all the features of an office printer with a home printer footprint.
Who is the Brother MFCL2750DW for? Office users who need a fast printer.
Why we picked the Brother MFCL2750DW: Brother's latest update to this solid printer helped maximize speeds, making it an ideal option for a busy home or office where you want printing jobs done fast. It can reach 36 ppm for black-and-white printing and is also speedy at copying and faxing for maximum productivity.
It also features single-pass two-sided printing for even more efficiency, and the automatic document feeder holds 50 sheets, making it one of the best options on our list for larger scanning projects and similar tasks. All the wireless connectivity you could want is included here, including NFC touch-to-connect for fast printing, support for printing from cloud services like Dropbox, OneNote, and Google Drive, and the ability to easily connect to your desktop, laptop, and other devices.
Unless you do larger printing projects from home, the Brother MFC-L2750DW may be a little too much of a workhouse printer for your needs. It's a perfect fit for a lobby or front office where speedy printing can be a big advantage but a full laser printer isn't really needed.
HP HP DeskJet 3755 Affordable and stylish inkjet for dorms and homes Compact design Affordable Attractive, colorful look Slow printing Why should you buy this? It's tiny, understated, and still produces great-quality prints.
Who is the HP DeskJet 3755? Students and home users who want a printer but don't want a boxy design Why we picked the HP DeskJet 3755: HP's DeskJet 3755 replaces the company's Tango X printer on our list as a stylish and affordable printer that's suited for those who may not have frequent printing needs. The unique design of this printer makes it a stylish option for dorm rooms, as it sheds the black box design of its contemporaries in favor of a slim profile with a little pop of color. This makes the DeskJet 3755 one of the smallest printers on the market today with solid print quality.
But don't let its diminutive footprint fool you — this small-in-one printer can still pump out up to 19 pages per minute in monochrome or a more modest 15 pages per minute with color jobs, and it's also able to wirelessly print, scan, and copy for multifunction documentation needs. HP also offers its subscription Instant Ink service to help you manage your ink cartridges, ensuring you're always ready for your next print job.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Brother HL-L2305W Best monochrome laser printer for light use Very low cost Fast print speeds Easy wireless connections Compact design Expensive operating cost No duplex printing Why should you buy this? It's a fast, compact laser printer that takes all of the work out of printing black and white documents and shipping labels.
Who is the Brother HL-L2305W for? Work from home offices and small businesses that don't print several documents each day.
Why we picked the Brother HL-L2305W: The initial cost of the Brother HLL2305W is shockingly low for a laser printer. With a cost of just a little over $100, you might expect this to be an inkjet but this budget-priced printer can roll through 24 pages per minute and lasts a long time before needing new toner. It's monochrome and meant for printing documents and it handles that task beautifully.
Brother has excellent wireless compatibility and didn't skimp on its budget model. It's easy to print over your Wi-Fi network from Apple devices using AirPrint, Google, and Android via Cloud Print, Windows WSD or you can use Wi-Fi direct if a local area network isn't available.
It's not all good news and the toner is where Brother makes back some money. If you're printing several pages each day or a big batch weekly, the costs might add up too quickly and overcome the initial savings. However, for lighter use, this is a fantastic deal.
More Frequently Asked Questions Affordable ink depends on several different factors: How much the cartridges cost upfront, how much ink the printer uses on average, and how long the cartridges last. Ultimately, it's best if you take a look at specific models and check how much the cartridges are and how long they appear to last (usually measured in page yield). Even within the same brand, ink costs can vary considerably based on the printing machine.
In general, you should look for printers that offer a high page yield for their cartridges and cartridges that are more affordable compared to alternatives. These two stats combined can tell you a lot. Inkjet printers with their liquid ink cartridges tend to cost more over time than laser printers with their large toner cartridges. All our top-brand picks, like Canon, HP, and Epson, tend to be quite efficient. Our HP picks, in particular, might be a good choice if you want to save money on ink (we were a little disappointed in our Canon Pixma model's ink performance, however). If you need to run larger print jobs, consider a printer with refillable ink tanks. While they may require a higher initial investment, the tank refills will lead to a cheaper per-page print cost and will be more environmentally friendly. If paper use is a concern, choose a printer that supports automatic duplex, or two-sided, printing.
Laser printers with their toner cartridges have high initial costs for replacing toner, but toner lasts longer than almost any other printer ink type. However, if you want a home or small business printer, then a laser printer probably isn't on your list. In that case, we suggest you take a look at our top HP OfficeJet pick. HP offers very high-quality ink cartridges for its OfficeJet models, and they'll last longer than most alternatives. If you need to stretch your budget, seek out a printer with larger cartridges or XL cartridges if those are available from your manufacturer. These larger cartridges generally will cost more upfront but will reduce the cost per page in the long run as they will last longer.
Aside from the high initial costs, laser printers tend to be more affordable in the long run because they are so cheap to operate. However, let's say that you're looking only at inkjet printers: What should you look for? Inkjet printers that have refillable ink tanks will offer a lower material cost per page than those that require cartridges. It becomes complicated in a hurry if you factor in the cost of the printer itself. If you anticipate keeping a printer for several years, a more expensive tank printer is often a better deal in the long term.
Printers with "convenient" ink cartridges that include color with black in one cartridge or have a single color cartridge lead to waste. It's unlikely you'll run out of every color and black simultaneously.
Even if you are only printing office documents, you’ll want to stick with the established brands that make durable, dependable printers. We’re talking about Epson Workforce models, HP Officejet printers, and similar brand families. Multifunction printers, or MFPs, will offer more robust capabilities, including scanning, faxing, and copying.
Everyone’s got a favorite brand, but it’s no accident that names like Canon and HP regularly pop up. These brands produce quality machines and offer something for every printing need, which means you’ll be able to find something in your price range. Brands like Brother aren’t quite as ubiquitous, but they also manufacture high-quality printers worth considering. Epson also is making some excellent photo-quality home printers these days, a departure from the enterprise-level printers the company has previously manufactured. We highly suggested looking at our printer buying guide, too.
You shouldn’t look at printer speed as much as you should consider its output quality, but you can usually find how fast a printer works by checking out its specs. Anything above about 20 ppm for black-and-white is good for the average inkjet printer. You can usually bump this number up to about 20 ppm if you’re looking at a laser printer. Printers with 40 ppm aren’t as common, and it’s improbable that you’d need to see this kind of yield for a home printer.
If you are using your printer every day or several times a day, it's probably better to leave it on. Turning printers on and off all the time can lead to wear and tear, and may dry out ink faster. Many printers have sleep modes that make it easy to keep them on.
Traditionally, around three to five years. This is still often true, although you may find your home printer lasts longer these days as printing just isn't as common as it was, so there's less wear on the hardware. New printers have a variety of functions, from improved wireless access to voice assistant control, which can make them great upgrades if you have a printer that's several years old or more.
Every printer manufacturer recommends using its own brand of ink cartridges, refills, and toners. However, there are often third-party inks and toners that claim compatibility while cutting the cost dramatically. The savings can be tempting but there is a risk of clogging the printer, inconsistent color, less than ideal print quality, and other problems.
Sometimes, third-party ink and toner might be the only solution available. For example, a manufacturer might discontinue cartridges and toner for older models.
The bottom line is that third-party ink cartridges, refills, and toner are an option when the manufacturer brand isn't available or is too expensive. Just keep in mind that the performance isn't guaranteed and it can clog inkjet nozzles.
Editors' Recommendations Best Black Friday gaming laptop deals: Cheapest prices today Best Buy Black Friday deals: 12 best offers you can shop now Best router Black Friday deals on mesh networks and Wi-Fi 6 routers The best 5K monitor Black Friday deals from Apple, LG, and more The best early Black Friday external hard drive and portable SSD deals Best Products Computing If your printer is broken and you need a replacement, don't let this year's Black Friday deals end without taking advantage of the discounts from retailers like Best Buy, Amazon, and Walmart. You'll have to figure out what type you need between laser, inkjet, and photo printers, and you'll need to do so quickly if you want to get one of the best printers delivered to your home for much cheaper than usual. So that you won't have to browse through the thousands of offers that are available online, we've gathered our favorite picks below -- if one of them catches your eye, proceed with the purchase immediately as stocks may already be running low. If you're look to add another dimension to your printing, check out 3D printer Black Friday deals too.
Best laser printer Black Friday deals Between laser and inkjet, laser printers are the recommended purchase for people who need to print multiple documents quickly. They are more expensive compared to inkjet printers, but laser printers make up for that higher upfront cost through the better yield of their toners for a lower printing cost. For Black Friday, you'll be able to save with the laser printer deals that are available, whether for monochrome laser printers or color laser printers, but since they're popular choices, you need to complete the transaction as soon as possible to make sure that you don't miss out on the discounts.
Computing While 3D printing has been around for some time, it’s only more recently become an option for consumers. A 3D printer can be a fun addition to your creative process, and it can even be an artistic medium to work within. 3D printers make great gifts for the holidays, and right now you can save big, as many retailers have started to roll out early Black Friday deals, including quality printer deals. You’ll find quite a few 3D printer options among them, including some substantial price drops for models that can compete with some of the best 3D printers.
Best 3D printer Black Friday deal Creality K1 3D printer — $400, was $500 There are a lot of brands in the 3D printing business. Creality makes quality 3D printers at various price points, with models made for both consumer and professional use. The Creality K1 3D printer is the perfect 3D printer for use around the house. One of its most enticing features is the speed at which it can print. It’s 12 times faster than regular FDM 3D printers, which allows it to be more eco-friendly and more fun in cranking out 3D creations.
Computing Since most modern mid-range and higher CPUs tend not to come with their fans anymore, you're likely going to have to find your own cooling solution if you're upgrading or buying a PC. Luckily, AIO coolers have become quite common, high-quality, and relatively cheap. There's also a big early Black Friday sale going on several different types of AIOs you can pick from, whether you're trying to cool a processor inside a small case or trying to build a behemoth that will be overclocked massively. Either way, we've collected some of our favorite AIO cooler deals below. While you're building your PC, take a look at RAM Black Friday deals, GPU Black Friday deals and CPU Black Friday deals.
Best AIO Cooler Black Friday Deal It can be hard to pick the best AIO cooler deal, mostly because people have different needs regarding what their cases can fit, but we believe the Corsair iCUE H115i ELITE probably fits the most use cases. It has a 280mm radiator and two 140mm fans, so it should fit most towers while also providing an absolute ton of cooling. It's also targeted to the higher-end CPU spectrum, so mid-to-high-end CPUs that are going to be used heavily will be the ones that get the most out of this.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
