Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Way to Hire Employees Highest Paying Jobs Best Business Laptops What is RingCentral? Best VPN Best Job Search Sites Home Computing Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best printers for small businesses By Tyler Lacoma Close One of the most important pieces of equipment for any small business is a dependable printer. But many small businesses don’t have the space or budget for certain printers. Luckily, there are plenty of models available.
 Whether you need a laser printer or one that fits in a small office, you’re in luck with our guide to the best of the best. Take a look and see if our top pick is perfect for your office! The best all-round small business printer: Canon Pixma TR7020 The best laser printer for small businesses: HP LaserJet Pro MFP M227fdw The best printer for high-speed business printing: Brother HL-L5100DN The best printer for saving ink and printing color pages: Epson EcoTank WorkForce ET-4750 The best printer for small but busy offices: Brother HL-L8360CDW Laser Printer The best DTG printer for small business: Brother GTXpro The most economical printer for small business: Brother Compact Monochrome MFC-L2710DW Research and buying FAQ You should also check out our full guide to the best printers of 2021.
The best all-round small business printer: Canon Pixma TR7020 Image used with permission by copyright holder Small businesses often dream of an all-in-one printer at a low price with reliable performance: This Pixma printer is that dream come true, with its tech-friendly design that works with common Wi-Fi Direct options (including AirPrint and Cloud Print) as well as via Canon’s own app, which supports a variety of downloaded templates for all kinds of work, from certificates to memos. The printer also supports square photo printing from a variety of sizes if you have some of Canon’s photo paper.
10 best laptops of 2023: tested and reviewed These are the best ultrawide monitors you buy in 2023 The best time to buy a laptop in 2023 The all-in-one printer uses a 36-sheet auto document feeder for quickly scanning or copying multiple pages at once, plus two paper input tray options (front and back) and configurations for photo paper, etc. The printer can hold 100 sheets in each tray, 200 in total.
For such a low price, the Canon TR7020 does make some concessions on printing speed, reaching 13ppm for black-and-white printing and 6.8ppm for color pages. But the modern office doesn’t have as many printing needs as it once did, so we suspect this model will still be right at home. If you’re looking for higher capacity or greater speeds, read on … The best laser printer for small businesses: HP LaserJet Pro MFP M227fdw Image used with permission by copyright holder HP can make a mean office printer, and this LaserJet Pro model is an excellent example. It’s a 4-in-1 laser printer, scanner, copier, and fax machine with a 50-sheet auto-feed tray and a large paper tray that can hold up to 250 sheets plus a 10-sheet priority tray. As you might expect, it’s fast, too, sporting a 30-pages-per-minute (black and white) speed and snappy startup, with all different kinds of paper sizes supported for various projects. Two-sided printing also is supported, and like other modes, it’s notably fast compared to competitors.
The printer also comes with all the latest connection technology, no matter what you prefer: It can connect via your Wi-Fi network, NFC connections, Wi-Fi Direct connections, and USB. It’s great at powering down into hibernation to save energy when not in use, and that small LCD touchscreen is perfectly capable of controlling any mode that you prefer.
Ultimately, if you’re looking for a laser printer for your business, the HP LaserJet Pro MFP M227fdw should be one of your first stops. The biggest downside is that the design isn’t exactly compact — it’s tough to fit this printer on a shelf or desk, so you may need to make some changes when making room.
The best printer for high-speed business printing: Brother HL-L5100DN Image used with permission by copyright holder This Brother printer also offers speedy laser printing with options for two-sided print jobs, but one of its greatest advantages is the price: It’s hard to find a cheaper printer that sports this much power, and Brother is a very reliable brand to choose for businesses. It’s also very quick: Printing goes up to 42 pages per minute with black-and-white printing.
While the paper tray is smaller than HP’s model at 250 sheets maximum, there’s also a 50-sheet multipurpose tray for printing envelopes and other smaller side projects that have special requirements (you can also upgrade to a larger tray if you really need to). Connectivity options include Wi-Fi and Ethernet as well as compatibility with Wi-Fi Direct services like AirPrint, Google Cloud Print, and others.
Additional business-friendly features include a function lock that allows administers to limit what specific user groups can do or change and secure printing via a PIN for particularly sensitive documents. However, note that the HL-L5100DN is one model that doesn’t come with scanning or copying functionality.
The best printer for saving ink and printing color pages: Epson EcoTank WorkForce ET-4750 Image used with permission by copyright holder Epson’s 4-in-1 printer is another strong option if you prefer ink printing to laser printing but still want a model that’s business-ready for everything from photos to document signing sessions. It offers a 250-sheet paper tray and a 30-sheet automatic feeder, with an option for two-sided printing. Connectivity options include Wi-Fi Direct, USB, and Ethernet.
This is an excellent choice if you are worried about color resolution, and it’s ideal for saving money, too: It’s an EcoTank model, which means it is designed to use ink very efficiently and it uses refillable tanks instead of cartridges — the included ink can last up to 11,200 pages for color printing and 14,000 pages for black-and-white printing! The WorkForce ET-4750 model is efficient and accurate, but that leaves it a bit on the sluggish side. It’s not ideal for excessively bulky printing jobs, but it can handle up to eight pages per minute for color and 15 pages per minute for black-and-white.
The best printer for small but busy offices: Brother HL-L8360CDW Laser Printer Image used with permission by copyright holder For offices that still need to save hardcopies of documents, print frequent flyers/exams, or similar projects, a smaller printer isn’t ideal. This Brother laser printer strikes the sweet spot by still being compact and affordable enough for a small office, but capable of dealing with demanding printing needs.
The printer has a 250-sheet capacity tray, with an output capacity of 150 for larger jobs, but allows for expansion trays to hold much (up to 1,300, if neccesary). There is also a 50-sheet multipurpose tray for smaller, more customizable projects. Printing speeds reach up to 33ppm, an excellent rating for a printer of this size. It’s also entirely compatible with AirPrint, NFC connections (which can be used for badge authentication to limit printer access), and Brother’s own printing app, among other options. Wireless or Ethernet connections are also supported for tapping into your office network.
The Brother HL-L8360CDW Laser Printer may need a little extra room on a desk, especially if you purchase additional paper trays, but it has the power and capabilities that a busy office needs.
The best DTG printer for small business: Brother GTXpro Image used with permission by copyright holder If your small business is active in marketing or similar branding pursuits, you may be interested in a direct-to-garment printer for swift printing on T-shirts and similar items. Prices on these hefty commercial printers can get quite high, but Brother has a solution: The GRXpro is specifically designed to help smaller businesses get high-tech DTG capabilities for mass production.
The printer includes a very user-friendly, compact design with effortless cartridge loading, automatic cleaning processes, and a variety of sensors, including a new height sensor to make sure positioning is absolutely correct. It also includes a white print head with internal ink circulation for more efficient printing and a high-speed print mode that makes things go a bit faster when time is of the essence.
The GTXpro can handle cotton, silk, and polyester and is also suitable for printing on trousers, shoes, and caps as well as more traditional DTG clothing, all without needing to substitute special inks. Brother is also running a deal that throws in a free “pre-treater” that helps prepare garments for printing. Keep in mind that these printers need to be professionally installed by Brother, with a follow-up training program for use.
The most economical printer for small business: Brother Compact Monochrome MFC-L2710DW Image used with permission by copyright holder If you are interested in commercial-grade printing but would like to save as much money as possible, this compact monochrome laser printer hits the sweet spot. It’s ready to handle high-volume printing at 27 pages per minute, but the toner cartridges that can handle up to 3,000 to 8,000 pages (depending on the type of cartridge you choose) are highly efficient and will save money on recurring supply costs. Plus, the compact version is a bit more affordable than other laser printers, so a business can save money upfront as well. It also includes faxing, copying, and scanning capabilities, which many offices will also need.
The Brother MFC-L2710DW also supports duplex printing via the 250-sheet capacity tray, which is a handy way to save money on paper. It also includes a deep sleep mode to save on electricity when not in use. If your business is willing to give up color printing for an office alternative that can save money, it’s an excellent option to consider. However, you will need to rely solely on Brother for new toner cartridges.
Research and buying FAQ How do I choose a printer for a small business? What is the best type of printer for a small business? Inkjet vs. laser printers: What are the differences? What are the best printer brands to consider? How do I choose a printer for a small business? Look for models that can handle a high workload over time and come with the technical features that your office needs (Wi-Fi compatibility, etc.). If speed is especially important for your business, look for a high pages-per-minute count, too. If you need color, avoid monochrome models. It’s also a good idea to seek out printers from reliable brands that come with good support and widely available ink or toner.
What is the best type of printer for a small business? That really depends on the business. Companies that need to do a small amount of high-quality printing for limited flyer campaigns or similar projects should stick with a reliable all-purpose model like the Epson WorkForce ET-4750. Companies that print a high volume of pages but aren’t as concerned about quality should look at an affordable laser printer.
Inkjet vs. laser printers: What are the differences? Inkjets use ink cartridges, and laser printers use toner cartridges, which are essentially made of dried-out ink powder that’s applied with heat. Generally speaking — and there are plenty of exceptions these days — laser printers are a bit faster, more affordable over the long term, and better at handling a heavy workload, while inkjet printers are smaller and better with colors.
What are the best printer brands to consider? Brother and HP are some of the most commercial-friendly printing brands and have a variety of excellent options, especially if you are looking for a speedy laser printer. However, Canon and Epson also have high-tech, dependable, business-friendly models that may be perfect for a modern office with fewer printing needs.
Editors' Recommendations Best Black Friday gaming laptop deals: Cheapest prices today The best tablets in 2023: top 11 tablets you can buy now 9 best monitors for 2023: tested and reviewed The best 17-inch laptops Best Buy laptop deals: Cheap laptops starting at $169 Business Business Computing AMD and Intel have fought for supremacy for decades, duking it out in a bid to make the best processors you can buy. The competition is fierce, and that's a great thing for PC enthusiasts. In 2022, the list of the best CPUs is larger than ever and packed with options from Team Red and Team Blue.
Intel's flagship Core i9-13900K tops our list, but there are great options regardless of your budget or purpose.
Computing Even while facing downAMD's Ryzen 7000 processors, Intel has come out on top with its Raptor Lake CPUs. The best Intel processor you can buy right now is the Core i5-13600K, but in a strange change of pace, Intel has several excellent options on the market right now.
From high-end gaming CPUs to some recent 12th-generation CPUs that are under $100, Intel has a compelling option at just about every price point. The AMD versus Intel war rages on, but for fans of Team Blue, these are the best Intel CPUs you can buy today.
Computing Although they've caught some flak over the years, Chromebooks provide a lightweight OS that Windows and Mac can't touch, offering an incredibly convenient and functional experience with much lower system requirements. We've reviewed hundreds of the best laptops over the years, testing for important qualities like performance, battery life, and display quality. And we've found that Chromebooks consistently excel at performance and reliability. You can find Chromebooks from Google, HP, Lenovo, Acer, and many others, and we've dug through them to find the best Chromebooks on the market.
The Chromebook laptops we've assembled here are something special. They offer solid performance, excellent functionality, and enough diversity to handle just about any need. Read on to see which models you should consider and maybe even acquire for yourself.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
