Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Fill ‘er up! Epson’s EcoTank ET-2850 wastes less so you can print more By Alan Truly Close $350.00 Large ink reservoirs last a long time Ink levels visible at a glance Great print quality Very high-resolution scans Two-year warranty Print speed is a bit slow Mobile app setup didn't work Blueish tone to some prints Epson knows how frustrating ink cartridges can be, which inspired the creation of its EcoTank printer. With large, refillable tanks, your inkjet lasts a long time without needing to fuss with ink. When it is time to top up the EcoTank, you refill from bottles, eliminating the waste that is inherent with ink cartridges.
Design Printing performance Special features Software and compatibility Price Is this the printer for you? It sounds like a great idea, so we put it to the test to see how well it works with the low-cost Epson EcoTank ET-2850 all-in-one printer.
Design The Epson EcoTank ET-2850 is attractive and small for an all-in-one.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The EcoTank ET-2850 looks attractive with a neutral white body that can blend into the home and office, or in black if you prefer. It’s very compact for an all-in-one, measuring 17.6 by 22.3 inches and standing just 10.7 inches tall.
Epson wants you to know this is no mere ordinary inkjet, and visible ink reservoirs on the front panel do the trick. The cyan, magenta, yellow, and black ink tanks have translucent panels that show the remaining ink. You can’t make out the individual colors behind the plastic, but it’s reassuring to see the ink levels and massive printing capacity at a glance.
You fill these reservoirs from Epson ink bottles, which each hold enough ink for over a year of printing. It’s easy: Just unscrew the bottle, tip it into the correct tank, and wait until the printer drinks its fill. A diagram inside the printer reminds you not to squeeze the bottles during refilling, in case you forget in the long period between. To completely fill black takes over a minute, but colors only need about 30 seconds each.
Epson notes that some of included ink gets used in the initial setup to charge the system. Future replacement inks should provide more prints per bottle.
The center panel tilts up for easy viewing and contains a 1.4-inch color display with buttons on either side for operation. The display guides you through tasks with ease, but two of the buttons have unusual symbols that can be confusing on such a small display. A touchscreen would have been more convenient.
The small display and unusual buttons are a bit confusing.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The paper tray at the back holds up to 100 sheets, which is on the low side, but the Epson EcoTank ET-2850 isn’t a business printer, so that’s not a problem. You’ll probably be switching between plain and photo paper regularly. The clearly labeled tray lets you know which side faces up when loading paper, and the size guides are easy to adjust.
Printing performance The Epson EcoTank ET-2850 has great photo print quality, but watch out for blue tints.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The Epson EcoTank ET-2850 isn’t the fastest printer, but you probably won’t mind unless you expect it to blast through a stack of documents quickly. Black-and-white documents print at about 10 pages per minute (ppm), while color cuts that in half. If you want speed, laser printers are often much faster than inkjets when printing several pages.
Photo prints on 4-by-6-inch paper come out quickly and look great. The print resolution is 4800-by-1200 dpi, eliminating pixelation in high-quality photos. The EcoTank ET-2850 prints are crisp and colorful enough to satisfy my daily printing needs and might even suffice for special projects. If you need more vivid and precise color, Epson makes 6-color EcoTank printers dedicated to photo-quality printing for professionals.
I did notice a slight blue tint a couple of times, but after setting the paper type to Photo Quality Ink Jet, the photos came out with accurate tones. I chose this setting even when printing on glossy paper.
Special features The Epson EcoTank ET-2850’s flatbed scanner works well and captures great detail.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The Epson EcoTank ET-2850 is an all-in-one printer that includes a flatbed scanner. It can scan at up to 1,200 dpi resolution, four times that of some competing printers. Scanning with that much detail takes about two minutes for an entire page, but it preserves every detail. This rivals the resolution of some of the best dedicated scanners.
An OCR feature can save a scanned document as a searchable PDF, a special feature. The OCR quality varies and works best with high-quality, modern documents. An old essay that I pounded out on a typewriter many years ago was clear to my eyes, but gave the OCR some trouble.
The EcoTank ET-2850 can also serve as a copier and includes an option to reduce or enlarge documents. Epson also offers free templates available to get you started with creative projects.
Software and compatibility Epson’s EcoTank ET-2850 is compatible with Windows, macOS, iOS, and Android.
 You don’t have to install drivers on Windows PC or Mac, but getting the latest software is a good idea to ensure access to every feature. iPhone and Android apps let you check ink levels and print remotely.
Installing the mobile app on your smartphone and following instructions is the quickest method for many printers, but the Epson SmartPanel app couldn’t connect to the EcoTank ET-2850 from my iPhone or Android phone for some reason.
After several minutes, I switched to manual setup, which was much simpler. I recommend installing the EcoTank ET-2850 with the physical buttons and display to avoid this hassle. Connecting via a smartphone or computer was easy after setup was complete.
The Epson EcoTank ET-2850 comes with a massive supply of ink.
Alan Truly / Digital Trends I began testing with my iPhone and immediately noticed that I had to set the paper size on the printer and in the mobile app whenever I changed paper. If I walked away, forgetting to select the media type and size, I had to return to the printer before printing. Thankfully, you can switch off these annoying warnings by turning off “Error Notice” under the settings for paper source.
Price After all of these prints, the ink barely dropped below initial levels.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The Epson EcoTank ET-2850 retails for $350 but is often on sale for around $300. It comes with four starter bottles of ink. According to Epson, a complete set of ink bottles lasts for up to two years of printing. That sounds like an unbelievably long time, but I can verify that the ink tanks are massive. The ink levels barely moved even after 26 color documents, 29 4×6 photo prints, and two full-page borderless color photo prints.
Epson estimates the ink in a set of bottles is equivalent to 90 ink cartridges totaling over $1,000 in cost. By that measure, the EcoTank ET-2850 is an incredible bargain. The included ink bottles state 6,500 estimated pages for black and 5,200 estimated for color. The yield for future replacement ink bottles should be 7,500 pages for black and 6,000 for color.
Epson includes a very generous two-year warranty, twice as long as most printers in this price range. You might want to set the EcoTank ET-2850 as your default printer to take advantage of its long warranty and nearly endless supply of ink.
Is this the printer for you? It’s hard to go wrong with the Epson EcoTank ET-2850. For home use, this is a great all-in-one that takes all of the hassle out of ink replacement. After the initial setup, you’ll only need to visit the printer to change paper, make copies, or scan.
There are a few nagging issues with the software that could make setup harder than it should be and the paper change warning was quite annoying until I figured out how to turn it off. Most things work well, but I never could get double-sided printing to work from any device, even a Windows PC.
The upfront cost is higher than budget printer models , but if you intend to print frequently, you come out way ahead after just a few months. With the EcoTank ET-2850, your biggest constraint is paper, not ink. If you expect to print long documents or color prints in high volume, the slower speed might become an issue.
Beyond that, the Epson EcoTank ET-2850 is a great all-in-one inkjet with great photo printing quality that I’d recommend to anyone that wants to avoid the waste and expense associated with ink cartridges.
Printer Reviews Product Reviews Computing The design of Apple's Magic Mouse continues to be a major complaint among Mac users, a blight on Apple's otherwise fantastic design choices. The ergonomics are inhuman, it still uses a Lightning charging port (even on the new M3 iMac), and it can't be charged while being used.
However, an engineer has introduced his design concept that would not only solve the charging issue on the Magic Mouse but also make the design ergonomic and comfortable for natural handling.
Computing Lenovo is probably one of the best-known laptop makers, especially since they have an incredibly wide variety of them to choose from. That also means they have an excellent selection of gaming laptops, so you can hone in on something that fits your budget. That's especially the case with the ongoing early Black Friday deals that are seeing laptops being cut down in price across the board. That said, Lenovo's selection of gaming laptops is too wide for us to include all their active deals here, so we've selected some of our favorites for both AMD and Intel CPUs. Also, if you're not sure of where to start, you should check out our list of best Lenovo laptops for some good options.
Best Lenovo Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals (AMD) Lenovo has a wider selection of AMD gaming laptops, which is great if you want to go with something AMD-powered. Unfortunately, there aren't any good deals on Lenovo laptops with both an AMD CPU and GPU, but the selection below is wide enough to pick something that fits your needs a bit better. And, if you want something with an RTX 4090 on a budget, then the AMD version is probably the cheapest for Lenovo.
Computing Printers are complicated machines featuring a mix of plastics, metals, electronics, and components, some of which are potentially flagged as hazardous waste. In 2023, it's more important than ever to be kind to the planet, and there are several environmentally safe ways to dispose of a printer.
Even the best printers in the world can reach the end of their life after several years if ink or toner is no longer available. A well-loved printer can suffer from accumulated wear and tear or damage from a catastrophic power surge that's too expensive to repair.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
