Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Guides How much is printer ink, and what’s the most economical printer type? By Alan Truly Close The cost of ink is a hidden factor that’s important to consider when shopping for a printer. An inkjet printer with all the features you need at a budget price might not really be as good a deal as it seems.
How much is printer ink? What’s the Most Economical Printer Type? Other options Which is right for you? Even if cartridge costs aren’t that high, the accumulated expense of replacing them frequently could add up to more than you’d pay for a printer that seems more expensive.
How much is printer ink? Digital Trends The cost of ink varies by manufacturer, model, and type. A monochrome printer has a single cartridge, while color printers use at least two cartridges and sometimes as many as ten different colors.
What does printer spooling mean, and how to fix it on Windows and Mac Best color laser printers for 2023: tested and reviewed What is a monochrome printer, and do you need one? Printers that are designed for photo-quality printing use extra hues and shades to smooth gradations and match tones more accurately. That optimization yields great results but means you’ll have to buy several special ink cartridges to keep the printer running.
On average, you’ll pay about $25 for a black cartridge and $35 for each color cartridge. A high-capacity cartridge contains more ink and lasts longer, but it might cost up to twice as much. These extra-large or XL cartridges typically have a lower cost per page (CPP).
Alan Truly / Digital Trends A laser printer uses toner, which is more economical than ink in terms of CPP. However, it requires a bigger up-front investment. Toner cartridges have an average cost of $80. Black and color cartridges are priced similarly, but black usually lasts longer.
Some printers have an option for high-capacity toner. As with ink, XL toner cartridges have a better CPP but a higher initial cost.
Our printer reviews generally provide CPP since it’s such an important detail. You can calculate the cost per page easily by looking up the cartridge on the printer manufacturer’s website. Divide the price by the yield, and the result will be the CPP in dollars. Divide that by 100 to get the CPP in cents.
The yield is the estimated number of pages you can print before a new ink or toner cartridge runs out. The yield is often different for black and color cartridges, but the yield is usually the same for each color cartridge.
What’s the Most Economical Printer Type? Alan Truly / Digital Trends There are several types of printers, and some are much more economical than others. Beyond inkjet and laser, there’s a choice between monochrome and color, as well as cartridge and tank. The most economical is a tank printer.
Tank printers like the Epson EcoTank ET-2850 don’t use cartridges, eliminating the added manufacturing cost, so you only need to pay for the ink itself. This is the secret to the incredibly low CPP of a tank printer. Each bottle of ink can print over a thousand pages, reducing page cost to a fraction of a cent, even for color prints.
Monochrome laser printers are the second most affordable when you only need to print black-and-white documents. The typical CPP for a black-and-white laser printer is two to three cents per page. Laser printers are fast, and a single toner cartridge can output hundreds, sometimes thousands of documents. Before tank printers existed, laser printers were the optimal choice for long-term savings.
Tracey Truly / Digital Trends Color laser printers are fast, durable, and economical for printing in black, matching a monochrome laser. For color documents, the CPP can be just as expensive as some cartridge-based inkjet printers. You can expect to pay about 12 cents per color page on average.
Inkjet printers are versatile, offering nice photo prints as well as document printing. The devices are small and usually a nice, low price. There are tradeoffs, however. Durability is an issue with cheap printers, but ink costs will be your immediate concern. That generally has to do with the yield of the cartridge.
A standard cartridge might have a CPP of seven cents for black and 14 cents for a color document, while a high-capacity cartridge can be as little as two cents for a black-and-white document and seven cents for color.
Some inkjet printers jamb all three colors into a single cartridge, which sounds convenient but raises the color cost even higher. It’s impossible to estimate the CPP in a general sense because it depends on how evenly balanced your color usage is. For example, it would be possible to use all of the cyan ink while the magenta and yellow remain full. You’d have to replace the tri-color cartridge wasting two-thirds of the ink.
There’s an inherent cost to manufacture, ship, and store cartridges — that’s why yield is so important. Since a high-capacity cartridge contains more ink, it’s more economical and less wasteful.
Other options Zebra There are other options for special purposes. For example, if you only need to print receipts, labels, or barcodes, a thermal printer might suffice.
A direct thermal printer doesn’t use ink or toner. Instead, thermal paper is heated to imprint text and graphics. Another type uses thermal ribbons for prints that are more durable.
There’s a reason retail stores use thermal printers for receipts. Ongoing costs are very low. However, the paper size is typically small, while the price of the printer is relatively high.
Which is right for you? CPP is important, but you need a printer that matches your usage. If you need to print color but don’t print often, a cartridge-based inkjet could be the right choice. The best inkjet printers are affordable and offer XL cartridges to keep costs low.
If speed is important, a color laser printer will match the CPP of a good inkjet (read about other differences in our laser printer versus inkjet comparison) while rolling through long documents and copies much faster.
If you only print black-and-white documents or want an alternative to your inkjet, a monochrome laser is hard to beat. They’re durable and efficient.
If none of the above fits your usage, a tank printer is the most economical and versatile, providing the best value when you know you’ll be printing often.
Editors' Recommendations How to dispose of a printer in the most environmentally safe way possible What is a 3D printer, and how much do they cost? What is a thermal printer, how they work, and do you need one? HP’s new color laser printers are energy-efficient and eco-friendly The 4 best home printers Computing Whatever you need to print, there’s a home printer that can do it. But knowing how to choose a printer isn't always easy, given the sheer number of options on the market. To help, we’ve put together a quick-and-dirty buying guide for selecting a home printer, with simple explanations of some of the most common terms, plus recommendations that will serve the majority of buyers.
Inkjet or laser? The first question all printer buyers must tackle comes down to a simple matter of what and how much you plan on printing. Inkjet printers use cartridges of ink that are applied wet to paper and rapidly dry, while laser printers use toner, a type of ink dust that bonds to paper for fast results and efficient resource use.
Photography What if a printer could fit in a pocket and print on almost any surface? That’s the question that has more than 12,000 backers pledging over $1 million to push the PrinCube from prototype to production. Less than 3 inches on the longest side, the PrinCube is a one-line color mobile printer. Startup TheGod Things says the palm-sized printer is the smallest mobile color printer yet.
PrinCube is a handheld printer -- rather than feeding a sheet of paper into a printer, the user moves the PrinCube across the paper one line at a time. Because the printer sits on the surface instead of using a paper tray, the PrinCube can print on more surfaces than just paper, including cardboard, leather, metal, plastic, fabric, wood, textured surfaces, and even skin for a custom temporary tattoo.
Computing HP Neverstop Laser 1000w Product Video English for EMEA Whether you own an efficient laserjet or a cheaper inkjet printer, you'll always have to buy cartridges and think about swapping out ink or toner when it has run dry. It something consumers and IT departments alike have always had to deal with, but HP has listened to the complaints. The company now offers a cartridge-free printer in an effort to resolve the age-old printer-ink problem.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
