Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Guides What is a 3D printer, and how much do they cost? By Alan Truly Close It’s been a while since 3D printers became available and started allowing people to create 3D objects in the real world right from their own home.
What is a 3D printer? How do 3D printers work? What can a 3D printer make? How much do 3D printers cost? If you’re interested in getting a rundown of what 3D printers are, how they work, how much they cost, and what you could do with them, you’ve come to the right place.
What is a 3D printer? A Monoprice MP10 3D printer creates an octahedron in blue plastic.
Monoprice A 3D printer is a device that can create physical objects from a digital file. The result is usually plastic. It might have rough edges and is often a single color. Despite those limitations, holding a real-world copy of a 3D model makes it easier to get a sense of what works and what doesn’t.
What is a thermal printer, how they work, and do you need one? What is a monochrome printer, and do you need one? How much RAM do you need? The best 3D printers can create parts that are sturdy enough for everyday use. The long-term goal of the industry is to extend the life of consumer products, allowing anyone to print a crucial replacement part that the manufacturer no longer keeps in stock.
While recreating a missing or broken part is useful, a 3D printer can also create enough parts to assemble entire products. This technology is great for rapid prototyping, allowing quick changes to refine the design before committing to expensive injection molds for high-volume production.
And 3D printing also has a place in commercial manufacturing. When producing a small number of products, high-quality, but relatively slow and expensive 3D printing of parts sometimes makes more sense than traditional methods with high initial costs and a low cost per unit.
How do 3D printers work? The most common 3D printer design, Fused Deposition Modeling (FDM), is similar to an inkjet printer. The FDM printhead moves side to side, depositing material on a moving platform. While an inkjet printer sprays drops of ink on paper, a 3D printer extrudes hot plastic onto a glass or metal build plate.
Two computer-controlled motors direct the flow of plastic along the length and width of the finished object, one for the printhead and another for the build plate. To create height, a third motor raises the rail the printhead slides across.
On the negative side, 3D printing is a slow process compared to traditional manufacturing techniques, sometimes taking hours to build an object up into the third dimension. You can make it faster by extruding more material at once, but that increases layer height and results in a print that feels rough. Vertical curves and angles also have steps instead of the smooth surfaces and flat planes of most manufactured products.
The Elegoo Mars 4 9K is a UV resin 3D printer.
Elegoo The second-most popular consumer 3D printer type uses light instead of heat to form shapes in plastic. Known as a resin 3D printer, this type uses UV light to project an image onto liquid resin that reacts to that wavelength and solidifies.
Resin 3D printing is often quicker, curing an entire layer at once. However, UV resin usually isn’t as durable as the thermoplastics used for FDM 3D printing.
Special FDM filaments include more durable plastic, as well as several types of metal, glass, ceramic, and even wood. The 3D printer part takes on appearance and some of the characteristics of those materials. With specialized 3D printers, it’s possible to create objects in a variety of materials, even cheesecake.
What can a 3D printer make? Cute 3D-printed mini octopuses by Javi Rodríguez, aka McGybeer.
Javi Rodríguez aka McGybeer / Thingiverse Commercial 3D printers can make almost anything.
Some 3D printers use powerful lasers to melt metal, creating strong parts for use in rockets and other rugged machinery.
Consumer-grade 3D printers are limited in size and materials. The size of the build plate determines the maximum length and width of a part, while the height of the printer affects how tall a 3D-printed object can be.
In most cases, 3D prints will fit in the palm of your hand. Larger consumer 3D printers can handle objects a little over a cubic foot. It’s also possible to make a large object by assembling several smaller parts.
The $30 3D scanner V7 by Dave Clarke.
Dave Clarke / Thingiverse Some of the most popular 3D objects include a whistle, a phone holder with a manual turntable for scanning objects in 3D, a clever digital sundial that uses sunlight to cast a shadow that tells the time in easy-to-read digits, and a mini octopus with flexible hinged legs that requires no assembly.
The possibilities are endless. For example, Thingiverse is one of the largest libraries of 3D objects designed for 3D printing, with over 2.5 million digital files — and most are free.
With the rise of generative AI, it’s now possible to create 3D objects with text prompts.
 At present, AI isn’t creating designs optimized for 3D printing, so you would need to convert the file to a compatible format and process it through a 3D-printing app before use.
How much do 3D printers cost? You can buy 3D printers starting at about $100 , an incredible bargain for such powerful technology. More advanced models have larger build plates and faster print speeds, but cost more.
For around $300, you can get a very good consumer 3D printer. If you become an enthusiast who prints often, $500 to $1,000 will get you a much faster and larger 3D printer. Commercial 3D printers range from a few thousand dollars to over $1 million.
An engineer tests the thickness of a Relativity space rocket 3D print.
Relativity Space / Relativity Space Be aware you’ll need supplies and might want accessories for your 3D printer, so keep a little more in the budget for those added costs. FDM filaments and UV resin are relatively inexpensive, but are sold in bulk, so you’ll spend at least $20 to get the necessary supplies.
Accessories include an enclosure to reduce the noise of an FDM 3D printer, better build plates, cooling fans to allow faster printing, UV lights to harden resin, and tools for 3D printer cleaning and maintenance. You usually don’t need accessories to get started, and some 3D printers come with a small amount of filament or resin to create the first few prints.
The Creality Ender-3 V2 is an FDM 3D printer.
Creality A 3D printer unlocks the potential to inexpensively create replacement parts, duplicate designs that are available online, or prototype entirely new products that don’t yet exist. This incredible technology has been around for decade,s but only became affordable and easy to use in the last few years.
If you haven’t explored 3D printing recently, it’s time to take another look. If you’re new to 3D printing, now is a great time to get started.
Editors' Recommendations What does printer spooling mean, and how to fix it on Windows and Mac How much is printer ink, and what’s the most economical printer type? Best 3D printer deals: Start printing at home for only $99 AMD’s upcoming Ryzen 5 5600X3D could completely dethrone Intel in budget builds GPT-4 vs. GPT-3.5: how much difference is there? Computing If you already have one of AMD's best processors for gaming, such as the Ryzen 9 7950X3D or the Ryzen 7 7800X3D, both your CPU and your motherboard might be in trouble.
Several reports of the processor burning up have recently surfaced. While AMD hasn't made any statements, it's possible that a new BIOS update might be enough to keep your gear safe.
Computing It's no secret that AMD's 3D V-Cache CPUs top the list of the best gaming processors, but the new Ryzen 7 7800X3D puts AMD shoppers in a precarious position. As you can read in our Ryzen 7 7800X3D review, it tops the charts in gaming performance even if it takes a backseat in productivity power. Is that gap enough to justify spending more on the Ryzen 9 7950X3D? Even with around $300 separating the Ryzen 7 7800X3D and Ryzen 9 7950X3D, the performance gap between them is much closer than their prices would suggest. I threw them both on my test bench to see if spending up is worth it, and there's a clear answer -- the Ryzen 7 7800X3D is the CPU to buy.
Two different tiers Computing AMD launched the Ryzen 7 5800X3D in 2022, bringing the world's first processor with 3D V-Cache to market. It remains one of the best gaming CPUs available in 2023, offering credible competition to AMD's Ryzen 7000 series and Intel's Raptor Lake processors. It's no longer alone, though, with newer Ryzen 7000-series 3D VCache CPUs poised to offer even greater gaming performance.
With AMD's latest Ryzen 7000 generation now launched, here's everything you need to know about 3D V-Cache.
What is AMD 3D V-Cache? Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
