Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Guides What is a monochrome printer, and do you need one? By Alan Truly Close Printers are versatile devices that can serve many needs, and the best printers can accommodate any kind of document you want to print. However, if you use a printer for school or work, you’ll frequently need to print black text, bar codes, lines, and other graphics on white paper. That’s why monochrome printers are a critical device in many offices.
What is a monochrome printer? Monochrome versus color printers Should you buy a monochrome printer? Does it make sense to own both types? Exceptions to the rule Which is best for you A color printer can also print crisp black text and bar codes, so why would you need a similarly priced monochrome printer? In this guide, we’ll answer questions around monochrome printers to help you decide if you need one.
What is a monochrome printer? HP A monochrome printer is just another way of saying black-and-white printer. Monochrome is from the Greek monokhrōmatos, which means “of a single color.” In this case, the single color is black.
Is there a Surfshark free trial? What you need to know What is NVMe? Everything you need to know about high-speed storage There’s only one use for an RTX 4080 Ti, and it’s not what you think Even inkjet printers, like HP’s LaserJet Tank 2504DW, can be monochrome, but black-and-white printing is usually more common among thermal printers and laser printers.
If you need to print in volume using a specific color for a poster or flyer, that’s called spot color, a technique that’s used in commercial printing to minimize costs and increase speed when printing hundreds or thousands of copies.
Even with spot colors, the results usually involve more than one color or a combination of color ink and black. Monochrome printers are always black-and-white printers.
Monochrome versus color printers The initial cost of buying a color printer is about the same as that of a monochrome printer, yet the color printer can do more. But there’s a reason monochrome printers remain popular despite this limitation.
Color printers can output in black-and-white, as well as a wide range of colors. Every color inkjet includes black ink, and color laser printers have a black toner cartridge for text. Sometimes, a top-rated inkjet or color laser printer provides better value.
Monochrome printers have an advantage when used over a long period of time. Replacing ink and toner for a color printer costs about twice as much as the black ink or toner of a monochrome printer.
Monochrome printers are also often faster , more durable, and less expensive to maintain since they have fewer moving parts.
Of course, photo printing is fun and can brighten a document, making it more interesting. If you need to ensure your report catches the eye, color can make a big difference.
With a color printer, you can create your own greeting cards, custom T-shirt designs, and explore other special-purpose, artistic mediums. If you’re creative, a color printer can inspire new projects.
Should you buy a monochrome printer? Brother Buying a monochrome printer is a good idea if you primarily print letters, forms, labels, envelopes, and receipts. You’ll save a bundle on ink or toner cost.
Even if you want to highlight documents with a color logo at the top, you can place a bulk order for color letterhead from a print shop. Then you can use that preprinted letterhead in your monochrome printer to save on the hassle and expense of replacing color ink or toner.
A low-cost monochrome printer is often more robust than a similarly priced color printer. A monochrome printer usually lasts longer, prints faster, and is easier to use than a color printer in the same class. Color printers have more complex mechanisms to manage multiple ink and toner cartridges.
Does it make sense to own both types? It’s easy to make a case for owning both types of printers — monochrome and color. In this case, set the monochrome model as the default printer so you can enjoy quick, low-cost printing for most documents. When you need color, it’s easy to select that printer.
If you frequently need to print shipping labels or mail out letters, a monochrome printer’s speed and efficiency are hard to beat. However, you’ll need a third-party service for photo prints and color documents.
An inkjet can handle your black-and-white documents, but costs more over time. If you use all of the black ink for office work, you won’t be able to print pictures until you replace that cartridge.
The only way to get the best of both worlds is to buy a monochrome and color printer. You have to invest more upfront and find space for two printers, but it really is worth it. With color and monochrome printers, you can enjoy the long-term savings and daily convenience of picking the printer that best matches the job.
Exceptions to the rule The Epson EcoTank ET-2850 comes with a massive supply of ink.
Alan Truly / Digital Trends The cost of ink and toner varies dramatically. The most cost-efficient printers are either laser printers or inkjet tank printers like the Epson EcoTank ET-2850.
If you can afford a color laser printer, it might serve the purpose of a monochrome and color printer. Laser printers can blast through hundreds or thousands of pages before toner runs out.
While toner cartridges seem expensive, they last so long that the cost dwindles to a low cost per page. Monochrome is the most economical, but color toner costs are relatively inexpensive over time.
Inkjet tank printers are another exception to the rule. You pay more initially, but these printers contain tanks to hold enough ink for thousands of pages. Some models even come with full ink bottles included in the box.
When you need to replenish ink, it arrives in bottles to refill the tanks. Costs of black and color prints become very affordable.
Which is best for you If you don’t own a printer yet and frequently need black-and-white prints, as well as a generous number of photo prints, a fast, high-quality color laser or inkjet tank printer could be the best choice.
If you already own a color printer or if you simply don’t need color prints, a monochrome printer is the most cost-effective choice.
Editors' Recommendations What does printer spooling mean, and how to fix it on Windows and Mac What is a 3D printer, and how much do they cost? Best color laser printers for 2023: tested and reviewed What is Display Stream Compression? Everything you need to know about DSC What is a thermal printer, how they work, and do you need one? Computing VSync is an essential piece of video game tech that can help your games look much smoother. Despite new options like G-Sync or FreeSync, VSync remains a key option for many gamers. But what does it do, and is it still worth using? You'll find VSync in nearly all PC games you play, and it's normally on by default. In this guide, we'll explore what VSync is, why it's useful, and if you should leave it turned on in your PC games.
What is VSync technology? Computing If you’re just learning about the world of computers and electronics, the terminology used to refer to different parts can be confusing. One component term you may have encountered is “CPU,” which stands for "central processing unit." CPUs reside in almost all devices you own, whether it's a smartwatch, a computer, or a thermostat. They are responsible for processing and executing instructions and act as the brains of your devices. Here, we explain how CPUs interact with other parts of your devices and what makes them so integral to the computing process.
What makes a CPU a CPU? Computing The cost of ink is a hidden factor that’s important to consider when shopping for a printer. An inkjet printer with all the features you need at a budget price might not really be as good a deal as it seems.
Even if cartridge costs aren’t that high, the accumulated expense of replacing them frequently could add up to more than you’d pay for a printer that seems more expensive.
How much is printer ink? Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
