Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Guides What is a thermal printer, how they work, and do you need one? By Alan Truly Close Zebra Among the best printers , you’ll mostly commonly find inkjet and laser models. Lesser-known are thermal printers, which use different technology to lower costs dramatically, depending on what you print and how frequently.
What is a thermal printer? How does a thermal printer work? Pros and cons of direct thermal Pros and cons of thermal transfer Who uses thermal printers? When an inkjet is better When a laser printer is better Do you need a thermal printer or something else? What is a thermal printer? A thermal printer is often the type used for receipts from the grocery store. The post office might use a thermal printer to print labels. Warehouses often use thermal printers for barcodes to identify products and quickly take inventory.
Thermal printers are commonplace in the business world where monochrome printers work well , but personal printers often feature color. A thermal printer might be the right choice for a home office, possibly as a secondary printer. Thermal printers are often much faster than inkjet and laser printers, making them ideal for business uses.
What is a 3D printer, and how much do they cost? How much is printer ink, and what’s the most economical printer type? Best laser printer deals: HP, Epson, Xerox, Canon starting at $130 How does a thermal printer work? Based on the name, you might already realize that thermal printers use heat to imprint text and graphics onto paper. The more interesting question is how heat can print on paper.
Thermal printers are typically energy-efficient, quiet, fast, and easy to maintain. The only moving parts are the paper and, in some cases, the ribbon. There’s no need for alignment, and maintenance requirements are minimal. Thermal printers work by using pressure and heat on the printhead that’s applied directly to the surface of the paper. This treatment makes the final print more robust and detailed, so it’s ideal for fine details like barcodes and shipping labels.
There are two types of thermal printers, both cost-effective. Direct thermal has the lowest running cost, but thermal transfer has certain advantages that can be essential.
Pros and cons of direct thermal Coffee receipts faded from heat exposure.
Carli Jeen / Unsplash Direct thermal printers require no cartridges, ink, or toner. The print head applies heat directly to thermal paper that changes color when exposed to higher temperatures.
The output is usually black, but blue and red are also available, depending on the paper’s formulation. Thermal paper is only slightly more expensive than regular paper, so ongoing costs are very low.
Direct thermal prints are also less durable since exposure to heat will cause the text or graphics to fade over time, ruining the label or receipt.
Pros and cons of thermal transfer A shipping envelope with a printed address label.
Mediamodiier / Unsplash Thermal transfer printers offer a wide variety of ribbon colors. Custom colors are even possible. The result is still a single-color print, but color-coding labels can be a worthwhile effort for warehouse use.
Thermal transfer printers use heat to melt wax or resin onto paper. That provides greater print durability, resisting heat, moisture, light, and friction.
A drawback is the need to replace the ribbons that hold the wax or resin, making thermal transfer a little more expensive than direct thermal. The cost difference is a fraction of a cent per label, but you still need to order and install another ribbon.
Who uses thermal printers? Thermal printers are great for frequent monochrome or single-color printing for extended periods of time. Thermal printers use inexpensive, narrow paper that comes on a roll.
Businesses that need to print receipts, labels, and bar codes on a daily basis choose thermal printers. While the upfront cost is usually higher, the long-term value quickly exceeds the initial savings provided by an inexpensive inkjet printer.
When an inkjet is better Epson An inkjet printer sprays ink droplets onto paper. If you’ve ever owned an inkjet, you’re all too familiar with the cost and waste of ongoing ink cartridge replacement.
An inkjet provides multicolor prints and photo printers can even print pictures in photographic quality with coated paper. If you want to print photos while keeping costs low, an inkjet tank uses bottles to solve the ink cartridge issue.
An inkjet can also print in black-and-white, doubling as a business printer. Documents and labels are inexpensive since black cartridges cost much less than color ones.
However, most ink is water soluble. If you intend to print bar codes or shipping labels, cover the print with tape or put it inside a plastic envelope if you anticipate water exposure.
When a laser printer is better Brother Most thermal printers use narrow rolls of paper. If you want to print documents, a laser printer is a better choice.
Laser printers are fast, economical, and have low maintenance costs. Fused toner is waterproof and durable, so laser prints work well for labels and bar codes.
Color laser printers combine the speed of a laser with the versatility of an inkjet. You can output good-quality photos, as well as black-and-white and color documents, while keeping the cost per page low.
Do you need a thermal printer or something else? In the home, a thermal printer will be quick and efficient, readily available to print shipping labels while your inkjet is offline waiting for a new cartridge. If the hum and rattle of a laser printer is too disruptive, a thermal printer’s near-silent operation is a relief.
A thermal printer’s single-color print and limited paper options might be too restrictive for documents. However, getting a thermal printer as a second printer might make sense as a complement to your inkjet or laser printer.
If labels, bar codes, and receipts are not part of your daily routine, you’ll be happier with an inkjet or laser printer. We put together a list of the best printers to help you find what you want.
Editors' Recommendations What does printer spooling mean, and how to fix it on Windows and Mac What is VSync, and why do you need it? What is a monochrome printer, and do you need one? The best all-in-one printers you can buy in 2023 How much RAM do you need? Computing The social question-and-answer website, Quora, has a new AI tool that will help answer questions, write code for you, or just hang out and chat. It's called Poe, but it has a few different personalities you can select from, including ChatGPT, and Quora's own general knowledge bot, called Sage. That's not all, though, and each of them has different expertise, having trained on different data.
Here are the ins and outs of Quora's Sage and other bots, and how you can make the most of them.
Computing In competitive games, sometimes it's who pulls the trigger first who wins. But sometimes it's the person who's PC reacts fastest. Finding out just what kind of input lag you're dealing with is the first step to eliminating it, and Nvidia Reflex is a great tool for the job. In some games, it can even go further than measuring latency -- it can help reduce it.
Once you have a high-performance gaming CPU and a powerful graphics card, the best way to make your PC more suited to competitive play is to shave off a few milliseconds in input lag. Here's how to use Nvidia Reflex to do just that.
Computing Stable Diffusion is arguably the most popular AI art-generation tool available. It's fast, intuitive, and produces pretty impressive results. If you're interested in using Stable Diffusion yourself, though, you should check if your PC is up to spec first, because it can be quite demanding. That goes for anyone trying to use Stable Diffusion on Mac, too.
But Stable Diffusion's system requirements aren't as straightforward as games or applications, because there are a few different versions available.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
