Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Wi-Fi not working? How to fix the most common problems By Tyler Lacoma Close Wi-Fi problems can strike anyone at any time, no matter how much networking experience you may have. But if you’ve not come across a particular Wi-Fi issue before, there’s no need to worry if you don’t know how to fix it. All you need are the right tools and a few tips, and you’ll be able to solve your Wi-Fi problem in no time.
Slow or no Wi-Fi or internet access in certain rooms Slow internet everywhere One device can’t connect to the Wi-Fi Nothing can connect to Wi-Fi Connections drop at random times Wi-Fi network disappears entirely The network connects, but there’s no internet access Router crashes regularly and only restarting it helps Wi-Fi connection lost when logging back into the computer Forgot the Wi-Fi password Unknown devices on my Wi-Fi network A recent update broke Wi-Fi The satellite routers on my mesh network aren’t connecting My smart device isn’t connecting to Wi-Fi My console can’t connect to Wi-Fi Can’t connect to wireless printer Can’t connect to a guest Wi-Fi network that I set up Wi-Fi 6 or 6E isn’t working, even with a Wi-Fi 6 router Can’t find a router with Wi-Fi 7 Whether you’re experiencing problems with slow internet, Wi-Fi signal dropping, or you just can’t connect to Wi-Fi at all, here are some of the quickest and easiest fixes you can try. We’ll also cover some advanced advice on more troubling issues that would definitely result in your Wi-Fi not working at all, or at slower speeds.
Slow or no Wi-Fi or internet access in certain rooms Casezy/Getty Images Wi-Fi is made up of radio waves, meaning your Wi-Fi router broadcasts in all directions from a central location. If your router is in a far corner of your house, then you’re covering a great deal of the outside world unnecessarily. If you can, move your router to a more centralized location. The closer you can put your router to the center of your coverage area, the better reception will be throughout your home.
Common macOS Sonoma problems and how to fix them Best wireless router deals: Casual Wi-Fi to lag-free gaming, all for less Why is my printer offline? How to solve the most common printer problems If you have external antennas, you can try adjusting those, too. Alternating between fully vertical and fully horizontal positions can help it reach in multiple directions.
If you live in an apartment building, other routers might be interfering with yours. Free software, like NetSpot on Mac, Windows, and Android, or Wi-Fi Analyzer for Android, can show you every wireless network nearby and what channel they’re using. If your router overlaps with nearby networks in particular rooms, consider switching to a less congested channel. If you need help switching, here’s our guide on how to change your Wi-Fi channel.
If none of that helps, your home might be too much for one router to handle. Consider purchasing a wireless repeater or setting up an old router to serve as one to extend the range of your main router. Upgrading to a whole-home mesh wireless system can also help with dead spots in certain areas of your home. Either way, it might be time to go and buy a new router.
Slow internet everywhere If your Wi-Fi speed is slow no matter where you are, try plugging a laptop into your router directly and test your internet speed using one of the best internet speed tests.
 If speeds are still down, the problem is likely with your internet connection, not your router. Try some of these ways to improve your internet speed and contact your ISP.
If that’s not the issue, it could be that your current wireless channel is overcrowded by your devices or by those of other nearby networks. Consider changing the channel on your router in your router settings, by accessing the admin settings.
If that doesn’t help, performing a factory reset on your router and setting it up again may help. On most routers, there’s a Reset button that you can hold down with a paperclip. Do so for 30 seconds, and the router should default to factory settings. Use our guide to setting up a wireless router to get everything properly configured, and see if that helps.
If none of that works and your internet is fine on a wired connection, your router might be dying. Consider buying a new one: Here are the best routers we’ve reviewed and why they’re great picks. If the router seems fine, then it might instead be your modem, which could suffer connectivity issues if it’s on its way out, too. If you’re looking to upgrade your modem as a fix, we also have a guide on some of the top modem-router combos.
 Upgrading to a Wi-Fi 6 or Wi-Fi 6E router can also help ease issues with congestion and support faster speeds, provided that your broadband plan is capable of these boosted speeds.
One device can’t connect to the Wi-Fi Image used with permission by copyright holder Sometimes you run into a Wi-Fi issue with one particular device. It’s probably just a momentary network issue, which is an easy fix. Try turning off the Wi-Fi on your device, then re-enabling it — or unplugging and replugging your Wi-Fi dongle. If that doesn’t work, restart the device and try again. Then try restarting the router itself.
If that doesn’t help, or if the problem reoccurs, consider deleting your current network from the list of saved networks on your device, then reconnect again.
If you’re running Windows 10 or 11, search for “wifi troubleshooting” and open the result, which should be Identify and Repair Network Issues.
 That will go through a series of diagnostics that may restore connectivity. On MacOS, you can run Wireless Diagnostics.
 Hold the Options key and click the AirPort (Wi-Fi) icon on the menu bar. Find Open Wireless Diagnostics , and then follow the on-screen instructions.
Nothing can connect to Wi-Fi If you can’t connect to your Wi-Fi at all, plug your laptop into the router directly using an Ethernet cable, and see if you can connect that way. The particular type of Ethernet cable doesn’t matter, but there are some Ethernet cables that are better than others.
 If that works, your Wi-Fi is the problem and you should try some of the other fixes listed here. If it doesn’t work, then your internet may be down altogether. Check your ISP’s webpage and social accounts, or give them a call to see if they are reporting problems. Sometimes providers can be a little slow to note issues, so you can also check with a monitoring site like Downdetector and see if other users in your region are reporting problems.
Resetting your router can fix a myriad of issues, too, and an inability to connect is one of them. Press the Reset button on the back of the router with a paperclip for 30 seconds, and the router should default to factory settings. Use our guide to setting up a wireless router to get everything properly configured.
If that’s no use, you may need to consider buying a new router.
Connections drop at random times Is there some sort of pattern? Do connections drop whenever you use the microwave? Have you just installed a fish tank? It may sound weird, but some routers have trouble with these and other home hardware. The 2.5GHz band is readily interfered with by other devices, and 5GHz and 6GHz are notorious for being interrupted by physical objects. It could also be that you’re experiencing interference from other networks or devices. If your neighbors are heavy Wi-Fi users at a particular time each day, this could be slowing you down.
Changing your router’s channel might help. You can use NetSpot on Mac and Windows and Wi-Fi Analyzer for Android to show you every wireless network nearby. If yours overlaps with nearby networks, switching to a less congested channel in your router settings can help. We have a guide that will walk you through changing the channel on your router.
You can also try moving your router to a more accessible location so that there’s less distance (and interfering devices) between you and the router.
If that doesn’t work, try performing a factory reset on your router by pressing a paperclip into the miniature hole on it and following the reset steps as outlined in your manual.
Wi-Fi network disappears entirely Image used with permission by copyright holder If you lose track of your Wi-Fi network on any device, it’s possible that your router reset itself. Do you see an unprotected network named after your brand of router? That might be yours. Connect a laptop or desktop to it via an Ethernet cable, then use our guide to setting up a wireless router to get everything properly configured again.
If you don’t see such a network, plug your laptop into the router with an Ethernet cable, and see if you get a connection. Use our guide to finding your router’s IP address and login information for more help. Also, if you don’t have a cable, check out our guide on how to choose the right Ethernet cable.
The network connects, but there’s no internet access It might sound like a tired tip, but try resetting your modem by unplugging it and plugging it back in. If that’s no good, you can connect a laptop or desktop to your router with an Ethernet cable ( these are the best ones ) to see if it’s the router or your Wi-Fi that’s not working. If this works, then your best bet to get Wi-Fi working again is to reset your router.
 If there’s still no internet, though, you may have an outage. Contact your ISP.
Router crashes regularly and only restarting it helps If your router needs to be restarted regularly, consider giving it a full reset. On most routers, you’ll find a Reset button that you can hold down with a paperclip. Do so for 30 seconds, and the router should default from factory settings. Use our guide to setting up a wireless router to get everything properly configured.
If that doesn’t work, your router may be on its way out. Your only real option is to return it if it is within its warranty period or to buy a new one.
Wi-Fi connection lost when logging back into the computer This problem can crop up on Windows 10 due to an issue with Fast Startup. Fast Startup keeps certain processes running so you can log back in very quickly. However, this can sometimes cause a bug with the wireless driver that prevents it from reconnecting to Wi-Fi properly. In the short term, you can turn off Fast Startup to prevent this problem. Search for Power Option s in your Windows 10 or Windows 11 search bar and go to this section of the Control Panel. Select Choose What the Power Button Does on the left-side menu, and then look at the new section Shutdown Settings.
 Find the option to Turn On Fast Startup and make sure it is deselected.
In the long term, you may need to update the driver for your wireless network adapter to fix any bugs causing this issue. You can follow our guide on how to update Windows 10 drivers for more information.
Forgot the Wi-Fi password Image used with permission by copyright holder If you really can’t remember your Wi-Fi password, and there are no notes or cards with it written down somewhere, you’ll have to reset your router. Use a paperclip to press the hidden switch in the pinhole on the back of your router for 30 seconds. It should then default to factory settings.
Use our guide to setting up a wireless router to get everything properly configured.
Unknown devices on my Wi-Fi network Log into your Wi-Fi app or administrator settings (which you can find by searching your IP address on your browser ). Look for a list of currently connected devices and pinpoint the ones you don’t recognize.
First, make sure these don’t represent connections you didn’t realize you had — each smart device will have its own connection, for example, and they can have some strange titles if you didn’t name them. Game consoles and TVs may also be connected, and if you’ve had friends and family over recently they may have connected with unfamiliar devices.
If you’ve ruled out all familiar devices and there’s still a connection or two you don’t recognize, it’s possible someone else is hijacking your Wi-Fi network. In this case, look in your settings for an option to block these devices on your Wi-Fi and ban their MAC addresses, if possible. Then change your Wi-Fi password, and reboot your router. This may not stop especially determined hackers, but it’s usually enough to kick unwanted guests off your network.
If you want to take more drastic action, here are some steps for how to deal with someone stealing your Wi-Fi.
A recent update broke Wi-Fi Image used with permission by copyright holder This can happen with some operating system updates. Windows 10 updates in mid-2020 had bugs that stopped some users from connecting to their Wi-Fi networks or even seeing a Wi-Fi connection at all. Similar updates to iOS, Android, and other platforms also have created bugs in the past that disrupt Wi-Fi connections.
When something like this happens, it’s best to wait for a patch that fixes the problem. In the meantime, remove the update and roll back your system to an earlier version to help get your online connectivity back.
While routers can last for years without needing a replacement, keep in mind that some problems can develop with age — a router may start lacking support for new device updates and similar issues that prevent it from working properly (as seen when Apple discontinued the AirPort Extreme, for example). That’s a sign that it’s time to look for a new router.
The satellite routers on my mesh network aren’t connecting Image used with permission by copyright holder Make sure that your satellite devices are powered up and turned on. If they are, try unplugging and replugging the problematic device and see if it will connect to your network then. If your router app allows you to restart a Wi-Fi point (Google’s Home app, for example, allows this), then reboot that point and see if this helps, too.
Google also allows you to run a test to make sure the network is set up properly. You can find Wifi points on the Home app, under Test mesh.
 If the test comes back with a weak or failed connection, you should try repositioning your satellite routers to be closer to your primary router. This also is a good tactic for any mesh system that keeps dropping its satellite points — they could be too far away from the primary point.
You can also double-check to make sure that your satellite router devices have a different SSID than your primary router. If they were accidentally all assigned the same SSID, then the mesh network may not be able to coordinate properly.
If your router still seems unable to connect, then make sure that nothing significant has changed for your network settings. For example, if your ISP WAN (wide-area network) type changed for some reason, you may have to go back into the settings for the router and make sure that the right WAN setting is chosen.
There are additional special cases where certain Wi-Fi technology can interfere with mesh networks, so it’s also a good idea to contact router support directly and explain your situation if nothing is working.
My smart device isn’t connecting to Wi-Fi Image used with permission by copyright holder First, make sure that your smart device and your router are both updated. Then try resetting your router and rebooting your smart device. You can either unplug and plug in the smart device or check its app for a reboot option — the Google Home app, for example, has a Reboot tool under each device section that you can use.
If the device still isn’t connecting properly, try moving it next to the router and seeing if it connects then — distance and interference can make a difference, especially for smaller smart devices. You should also double-check to make sure that your smart device doesn’t need a Zigbee hub to operate , which is more common among older smart devices but a problem that still occasionally crops up.
If your smart device keeps dropping a Wi-Fi signal, especially during busy times of the day, check to see if your router supports automatic band switching for devices. If it does, try turning this feature off. Sometimes a router will try to switch a smart device to a different band, but the device isn’t ready for that, causing it to lose a connection. There may also be issues with connecting to a mesh router, and you may have to be very specific about your network connection to make smart devices work.
It’s also a good idea to check if your particular device is suffering from temporary bugs that make connecting to Wi-Fi difficult or impossible.
Nest minis and HomePod minis have both encountered such errors in the past. In these cases, a fix is usually patched in before too long, so keep making sure that your device is updated. Sometimes operating system updates, like a new iOS patch , also can affect smart device performance.
There are a number of other router settings that may block smart devices, but they are manufacturer dependent. If you can’t find what’s wrong, contact your router manufacturer’s support and explain that you think your router is having trouble connecting.
My console can’t connect to Wi-Fi Image used with permission by copyright holder Check social media and Downdetector to make sure nothing is wrong with your gaming platform — sometimes your Xbox or PlayStation can get online just fine, but Xbox Live or Playstation Network is down for any number of reasons, but they’re typically back up again after a short period.
If everything looks all right there, reboot both your router and your game console and see if they can successfully connect. This is also a good time to test your internet connection. Major systems like Xbox and PlayStation have an option in their Settings menu to test your internet connection. On PlayStation, head to Settings , then Network , then select Test Internet Connection.
 On Xbox, go to Profile & System , select Settings , and in the General section, select Network Settings , where you will find an option to Test Network Speed & Statistics.
 This can provide more information about what’s going wrong and even tips on what you may need to change.
If your console and router seem to be acting properly but Wi-Fi keeps dropping, you may want to try moving the two devices closer to each other to see if the Wi-Fi signal improves. Try to remove any material or objects between the console and router: Placing both in a high, clear location often brings the best results. You can also try reducing the number of other devices on the network, especially if they’re streaming.
Can’t connect to wireless printer Image used with permission by copyright holder First, make sure you are trying to connect to your Wi-Fi and not via Wi-Fi Direct — they are two different technologies. We also highly suggest the traditional routine of turning everything off and back on again, especially if your printer has connected to Wi-Fi successfully in the past. If your printer is far away from your router and keeps running into Wi-Fi errors, try moving it to a closer position.
If it looks like your printer is connected to Wi-Fi but you can’t get it to work, head into your printer settings on your computer and make sure the correct default printer is selected.
Microsoft also has some troubleshooters you can run to see if they pick up on anything obviously awry.
It’s also a good idea to check your router security, firewalls, and VPN security to see if any of them are identifying the printer as a strange device and refusing a wireless connection. You may need to disable certain firewalls or reconfigure security protocols to use your printer successfully. When all else fails, uninstall your printer drivers and reinstall the more recent versions to see if this makes a difference.
And if your printer isn’t wirelessly enabled, consider upgrading to one that is. We have some recommendations for the best printers , laser printers , and multifunction printers that can be used wirelessly and connect to your home network.
Can’t connect to a guest Wi-Fi network that I set up Image used with permission by copyright holder Guest Wi-Fi networks allow you to share your Wi-Fi with others in a secure way that helps prevent security issues. You’ve probably seen it on business routers, but it can be set up on home routers, too. If someone is having trouble connecting to the guest network but otherwise the Wi-Fi seems to be working, there are a few things you can try.
First, if you just set up your guest network, wait a few minutes. It may take a little time for the network to show up. If the guest network is visible, take a minute to head into your router app and check settings. Settings like Public Wi-Fi Active and Allow Guests to Access My Local Network should always be enabled. If it’s still not working, reset your router and try again.
Keep in mind, some guest networks have a stricter limit on how many devices can use them. If you have over a dozen people already on the guest network, others may not be able to log on.
Wi-Fi 6 or 6E isn’t working, even with a Wi-Fi 6 router Image used with permission by copyright holder Wi-Fi 6 offers a host of improvements from older Wi-Fi standards, including improved performance, less latency, and better security. But if you don’t think you’re getting Wi-Fi 6 features from a router that supports it, something could be wrong with your setup.
Do you have any extenders on your network? If those aren’t compatible with Wi-Fi 6, you won’t be able to enjoy Wi-Fi 6 speed and features. If your device has picked up the signal from an extender, Wi-Fi 6 benefits may not be making the trip.
Additionally, most devices will need at least partial support for Wi-Fi 6 features to be able to use them. Devices that are several years old may not be compatible with any Wi-Fi 6 changes. That includes your phone and laptop, as well as smart devices that you might be using.
Even desktop computers may struggle with this. Internal Wi-Fi adapters may struggle to pick up on Wi-Fi 6 benefits when you switch to a new router, even if they are technically compatible. You should update your Wi-Fi drivers to fix any potential issues.
Can’t find a router with Wi-Fi 7 Wi-Fi 7 is the next generation of wireless technology, and it’s technical name is 802.11be. It’s the successor to existing Wi-Fi 6 and Wi-Fi 6E routers, and will offer much greater performance, with up to 36 Gbps data transfer rates — that’s more than three times faster than Wi-Fi 6 speeds. It also lets devices use multiple frequencies simultaneously to better utilize available network bandwidth.
The only downside to this is that Wi-Fi 7 routers aren’t yet available at competitive prices. There are some Wi-Fi 7 routers, like the impressive TP-Link Deco BE85 , but that’s a $1,500 mesh router system and complete overkill for just about anyone.
You can expect to see more Wi-Fi 7 routers with more approachable price tags in the coming months.
Editors' Recommendations Common Microsoft Teams problems and how to fix them These are the best Wi-Fi routers for 2023 Common Windows 11 problems and how to fix them The most common Chromebook problems and how to fix them The most common Slack issues and how to fix them Mobile Work From Home Computing Is Zoom giving you problems and you can't seem to fix them? Video conferencing software is more popular than ever, with thousands of companies turning to teleworking to keep their employees in the loop. Zoom and other online meeting tools make that easier than ever, but as with any other software, issues will arise, and they disrupt or even prevent good video calls.
Fortunately, while there are Zoom service outages you can't do much about, you often can fix typical problems yourself. To help get your Zoom calls working properly, we’ve collected the most common Zoom problems users face and have provided easy solutions to be able to fix them.
Computing Wi-Fi 7 is the latest evolution in the 802.11 IEEE standard of wireless networking, and it's the direct sequel to Wi-Fi 6 and Wi-Fi 6E. It's faster, offers improved support for a greater number of simultaneous connections, and will be more adaptable, to better maintain low-latency connections. It will be an excellent solution for streaming ultra-high-definition video to multiple devices simultaneously, and may find use in future wireless virtual reality and augmented reality headsets.
There aren't many Wi-Fi 7 devices or routers available just yet, but a soft launch has already begun in China, and that rollout will gather sped in the coming years. To get you ready for the next generation of Wi-Fi technology, here's everything you need to know about Wi-Fi 7.
Computing If you need to improve or expand your network range, you have two options. The first is adding an extender, and the second is a mesh Wi-Fi system. An extender, otherwise known as a repeater, retransmits your Wi-Fi’s data stream, while a mesh router is designed to use satellite routers that act as a Wi-Fi hub in whichever room they are located.
Both options will improve a weak connection over a broad area, but mesh Wi-Fi system are better for a full replacement, and they're generally easier to set up, making them a great pick to deal with dead zones, larger public spaces, and big houses. There are plenty of affordable mesh network options, and even Wi-Fi 6 and Wi-Fi 6E models available for tech enthusiasts.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
