Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Guides Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best free parental control software for PC, Mac, iOS, and Android By Jon Martindale Close Everything in this world has gone digital, and that includes homework (if you have kids). If your children are young, you’re probably not giving them laptops or free rein of the family computer yet. You’re also probably not always able to monitor their screen activity, either.
Built-in OS features Apps and extensions What’s next? That’s where parental control software comes in handy. Such software helps keep your kids safe from the dark web, and there are usually free options available for all operating systems. Keep reading to find out more.
Built-in OS features Giving your kids technology designed for their age group is an excellent first step toward keeping them safe online. When they have access to more general computing devices, you can leverage parental control features built right into the operating system. The parental controls for both Windows and macOS provide a convenient and acceptable means for restrictin g web access and chat functionality, and give parents the ability to view detailed logs and monitor email exchanges.
The best free music players for MacOS The best free antivirus software for 2022 How to get Google Earth Pro for free Microsoft Family Safety camera lens, and a green plant." width="720" height="720" /> For Windows, you need to sign up for a Family Safety account.
 You can then add a specific child account (or more than one) to your family account that your kids can use.
This approach may be a little complicated, but it comes with a variety of benefits. You get activity reports, and you can have content filters for apps, games, and websites.
You can also set screen time limits for apps, games, and devices for your child. There are some real-world safety features, including the ability to track your kids’ location via the Microsoft Family Safety app (on iPhones and Android phones).
MacOS built-in parental controls Riley Young/Digital Trends Apple’s macOS touts more than a few options for parental controls.
In the latest version of macOS, Ventura, you can set up restrictions for things like movies, apps, web content, and privacy using the Screen time section of your Mac’s System settings.
 The parental controls in macOS also allow you to set limits on a child’s gaming habits, such as whether or not they can have private messaging and whether or not they’re allowed to play multiplayer games.
You can also restrict things like in-app purchases on iOS and iPadOS devices and require a password to even make a purchase.
Adjusting these parental control settings can be done by either logging into a child’s specific Mac account or by using Family Sharing , which is a feature that, among other things, allows you to add your family members to a group and then manage their accounts’ parental control settings remotely from your own account.
Apps and extensions Windows and macOS offer a decent selection of parental controls, but they can’t do it all by default. In the same vein, parental controls can be a challenge to set up on child-focused mobile devices.
 Here are some downloadable programs that may be more suited to your particular goals.
Qustodio (Windows/macOS/iOS/Android) Image used with permission by copyright holder Qustodio has a very intuitive, easy-to-use interface that allows you to sign up for the free version of its software in moments. You can manage everything from the dashboard, including your settings and viewing your child’s activity. The free version of Qustodio includes monitoring and filtering features such as safe search and web filtering, emailed activity reports, and the ability to set screen time limits.
Compatibility options are impressive since the software supports Kindle, Chromebooks, Windows, macOS, Android, and iOS. However, many features (like application controls, location tracking, etc.) are behind paywalls. You can also only use the free version on a single device, which limits its usefulness. Qustodio has a great set of features; we wish more of them were available for free.
KidLogger (Windows, macOS, Android, and Linux) Image used with permission by copyright holder KidLogger is an excellent option if you’d prefer to be covert. Instead of blocking sites, KidLogger automatically tracks keystrokes, web history, and program use (and can automatically take a screenshot of your kid’s screen). When installed on a smartphone , the app automatically logs any SMS messages by number and contact name.
The free version of KidLogger is OK, but the premium versions add some oomph, though some of the features are downright invasive. If you want to monitor your child’s phone conversations and record WhatsApp messages, KidLogger Professional can do that. The app is available for Windows, macOS, Android, and Linux. Like Qustodio, a free account comes with limitations. Free KidLogger accounts limit you to monitoring for five devices and a log history of only nine days. Premium versions of the service will get you longer log histories, additional devices that can be monitored, and increasingly invasive monitoring features.
FoxFilter (Google Chrome/Firefox/Edge add-on) FoxFilter provides users with a score of blocking filters based solely on individual keywords and sites. The add-on’s sensitivity settings can be tweaked to scan body content, title, and URL. Users can also set notification and alert preferences detailing the type of content underlying each blocked site.
A quick way to implement parental control is by managing your preferences, which means you can block entire categories of websites with ease. If you’re new to using parental control software, we recommend relying on the software’s default list of warning words.
You may be unintentionally blocking all websites by overusing keywords or using the wrong ones. Fortunately, help is just a quick email away for FoxFilter users. If you’re having trouble, reach out to Inspired Effect for support.
What’s next? Parental control is a concept that goes beyond limiting your child’s computer privileges.
Nowadays, you must block certain sites from their cell phones.
With new technology, you’re likely finding yourself looking for ways to add security to your kids’ phones and even gaming consoles.
As a parent, it’s your responsibility to keep your children safe from online dangers, and it’s also essential to keep your tech safe. The right antivirus software and password managers will keep your devices safe from harm and your passwords protected.
Editors' Recommendations The best free photo-editing software for 2023 The best free video editing software for 2022 How to watch DVDs and Blu-rays for free in Windows 10 The best free video converters The best free drawing software Web Fundamentals For Free Software Music Music-making software doesn't usually come cheap. In fact, for serious musicians and producers, it may well be worth it to pay for a subscription or a steep one-time fee for audio editing and music creation software. After all, the premium versions tend to have more advanced features. If you're just starting out in music production or just feel like you'd rather avoid the hefty price tags altogether, there are free options for music-making software worth considering.
In this guide, we'll take a look at five of those options. Whether you're a Windows or MacOS user, a musician, or an aspiring DJ, you're sure to find a software option that fits your music creation needs on our list of the best free music-making software.
Avid Pro Tools First (Windows 10 and MacOS) Experienced creators and musicians already know that Avid Pro Tools leads the industry in music production software. This premium music editing and creation software can come with a hefty price. If you're a beginner or just a musician on a budget, you may wonder if Avid Pro Tools is even an option for you. The answer is: Yes. There is a free version (albeit limited in features) that Avid offers. It's called Avid Pro Tools First. Pro Tools First comes with features such as four maximum inputs, 16 MIDI tracks, 16 instrument tracks, and a maximum supported sample rate of 32-bit, 96 kHz. The free version of Pro Tools also includes nondestructive editing, elastic audio, retrospective MIDI recording, and a MIDI editor. It does not have many of the premium features that the paid versions of Pro Tools have, including Dolby Atmos Music mixing or loop record track comping.
Computing Lenovo is probably one of the best-known laptop makers, especially since they have an incredibly wide variety of them to choose from. That also means they have an excellent selection of gaming laptops, so you can hone in on something that fits your budget. That's especially the case with the ongoing early Black Friday deals that are seeing laptops being cut down in price across the board. That said, Lenovo's selection of gaming laptops is too wide for us to include all their active deals here, so we've selected some of our favorites for both AMD and Intel CPUs. Also, if you're not sure of where to start, you should check out our list of best Lenovo laptops for some good options.
Best Lenovo Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals (AMD) Lenovo has a wider selection of AMD gaming laptops, which is great if you want to go with something AMD-powered. Unfortunately, there aren't any good deals on Lenovo laptops with both an AMD CPU and GPU, but the selection below is wide enough to pick something that fits your needs a bit better. And, if you want something with an RTX 4090 on a budget, then the AMD version is probably the cheapest for Lenovo.
Computing Printers are complicated machines featuring a mix of plastics, metals, electronics, and components, some of which are potentially flagged as hazardous waste. In 2023, it's more important than ever to be kind to the planet, and there are several environmentally safe ways to dispose of a printer.
Even the best printers in the world can reach the end of their life after several years if ink or toner is no longer available. A well-loved printer can suffer from accumulated wear and tear or damage from a catastrophic power surge that's too expensive to repair.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
