Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Download YouTube Videos What is YouTube Premium? Price, content, and more Free Movies on YouTube Play YouTube in the Background What is YouTube Music? Home Computing Guides These are the 10 most-viewed YouTube videos of all time By Anita George Close Being popular is about the only thing the current most-viewed YouTube videos have in common with their top-performing predecessors. Even though YouTube videos like Chocolate Rain went viral during the first few years of YouTube’s content, they probably wouldn’t be among the kinds of videos that go viral on the platform now.
What is the most-viewed YouTube video of all time? What are the top 10 most-viewed YouTube videos? 10. Miroshka TV — Learning Colors Multi-Colored Eggs on the Farm (4.88 billion views) 9. Mark Ronson featuring Bruno Mars — Uptown Funk (4.91 billion views) 8. Cocomelon Nursery Rhymes — Wheels on the Bus (5.18 billion views) 7. ChuChu TV — Phonics Song with Two Words (5.27 billion views) 6. Wiz Khalifa featuring Charlie Puth — See You Again (5.87 billion views) 5. Ed Sheeran — Shape of You (5.98 billion views) 4. Cocomelon Nursery Rhymes — Bath Song (6.17 billion views) 3. LooLoo Kids — Johny Johny Yes Papa (6.69 billion views) 2. Luis Fonsi featuring Daddy Yankee — Despacito (8.15 billion views) 1. Pinkfong — Baby Shark Dance (12.77 billion views) In fact, children’s programming and music videos are now among the most-viewed content on YouTube. Music videos, in particular, have enjoyed great success on the streaming site and, until recently, had been the majority of the most-viewed videos in YouTube’s history. Music videos still account for 40% of the top 10 most-viewed videos, however. The other 60% is content for young children. If these view counts are anything to go by, the video-sharing site could be considered a leading platform for music videos and kid-friendly content, rather than just the memeworthy viral videos the site was known for in its early days.
What is the most-viewed YouTube video of all time? Baby Shark Dance is the most-viewed video ever on YouTube. The children’s song overtook the all-Spanish version of Despacito in November 2020.
Forget text-to-image; this AI makes videos from your prompts YouTube brings pinch to zoom and video navigation changes to everyone YouTube to overhaul channel names with @ handles for all What are the top 10 most-viewed YouTube videos? Pinkfong — Baby Shark Dance (12.77 billion views) Luis Fonsi featuring Daddy Yankee — Despacito (8.15 billion views) LooLoo Kids — Johny Johny Yes Papa (6.69 billion views) Cocomelon Nursery Rhymes — Bath Song (6.17 billion views) Ed Sheeran featuring Charlie Puth — Shape of You (5.98 billion views) Wiz Khalifa — See You Again (5.87 billion views) ChuChu TV — Phonics Song with Two Words (5.27 billion views) Cocomelon Nursery Rhymes — Wheels on the Bus (5.18 billion views) Mark Ronson featuring Bruno Mars — Uptown Funk (4.91 billion views) Miroshka TV — Learning Colors Multi-Colored Eggs on the Farm (4.88 billion views) 10. Miroshka TV — Learning Colors Multi-Colored Eggs on the Farm (4.88 billion views) Educational videos being among the most-viewed content on YouTube isn’t surprising if you think of it like this: If kids are going to be staring at screens for a decent portion of the day, it makes sense that the programming of choice among parents would be free to access and, better yet, educational. Miroshka TV’s Learning Colors Multi-Colored Eggs on the Farm is no exception. It’s an educational video for kids that has already racked up nearly 54 billion views in the five years since it was first uploaded.
It’s a fun, five-minute video that teaches young children about different colors via (crudely) animated eggs on a farm. The video itself is narrated in Russian and teaches kids the names of different colors in Russian. The only parts of the video that aren’t in Russian are the music (which is Old MacDonald Had a Farm in English) and any subtitles that appear (if you have them turned on). The video has a slow pace — some scenes are a bit long — but the funny, silly moments will appeal to younger audiences.
9. Mark Ronson featuring Bruno Mars — Uptown Funk (4.91 billion views) Even though it’s older than the top three videos on this list, Uptown Funk continues to gather new viewers, helping it remain a potential chart-topping threat. Ronson’s video made its YouTube debut in November 2014 and swiftly became one of the most popular and well-liked videos ever.
Arguably just as impressive as its view count is that it beat stiff competition from its contemporaries. Big music videos from other major artists, like Katy Perry, helped their big 2014 hits achieve billions of views.
Uptown Funk still manages to eclipse those achievements.
8. Cocomelon Nursery Rhymes — Wheels on the Bus (5.18 billion views) The Cocomelon Nursery Rhymes YouTube channel actually has two videos in the top 10 most- viewed YouTube videos of all time. And Wheels on the Bus is the latest one to break into the top q0. Cocomelon’s Wheels on the Bus is it’s animated version of the classic children’s song.
Some of the lyrics may be different from what you sang as a kid, but the familiar catchy tune and the easy to follow lyrics displayed on-screen should still be fun for kids and their parents to sing along with. It’s no wonder that this updated classic eventually made it on this list.
7. ChuChu TV — Phonics Song with Two Words (5.27 billion views) A pretty straightforward educational children’s literacy video, Phonics Song with Two Words features a simple tune that goes through the entire alphabet, going over pairs of words that use each of the letters in the English alphabet. The video even provides illustrations of these words and explains how to pronounce the sounds of each letter in their respective example words.
This video has been around since March 6, 2014, and has racked up over 5 billion views.
6. Wiz Khalifa featuring Charlie Puth — See You Again (5.87 billion views) Wiz Khalifa and Charlie Puth’s See You Again is the first video on this list to have a movie tie-in — Furious 7 — to aid its promotion. It has managed nearly 6 billion views since its April 2015 debut and serves as a tribute to Paul Walker, the former star of The Fast Saga , who died in 2013.
Between July 10 and August 4, 2017, the video remained the most-viewed video on YouTube, beating Gangnam Style.
 That reign was only temporary, as it was later eclipsed by Despacito.
 It was also the most-liked video between August 26, 2016, and July 25, 2017.
See You Again became the second video to pass the 2 billion view mark.
5. Ed Sheeran — Shape of You (5.98 billion views) Whether you watched it or not, Shape of You is still one of the most-watched videos of all time. It’s No. 5 on this list, has over 5 billion views, and was the second video to nab 4 billion views.
Shape of You debuted in January 2017.
4. Cocomelon Nursery Rhymes — Bath Song (6.17 billion views) Slowly but surely, educational videos for children are taking over the top 10 most-viewed YouTube videos of all time. In fact, Cocomelon’s Bath Song is now No. 4 on our list, as other videos like Gangnam Style have been knocked out of the top 10 completely — which is weird when you think about it. It’s just a simple song about bath time that’s less than three minutes long and has a Baby Shark Dance -esque chorus. Nonetheless, it managed to snag a top five spot on this list, speeding far ahead of a video from an internationally famous singer.
3. LooLoo Kids — Johny Johny Yes Papa (6.69 billion views) Another video for kids that made it into the top 10 most-viewed YouTube videos is Johny Johny Yes Papa.
 It’s a short, animated music video about a mischievous baby and his Papa. It’s a simple song about a baby trying to eat some sugar (literal sugar cubes) even though his Papa obviously doesn’t approve. Does the kid get the sugar? You’ll have to watch to find out. The song itself isn’t annoying, either — it’s almost too simple and short to be a nuisance. That’s a good thing, considering it’s been viewed/listened to well over 6 billion times.
2. Luis Fonsi featuring Daddy Yankee — Despacito (8.15 billion views) Featuring Puerto Rican artists Luis Fonsi and Daddy Yankee, Despacito hit YouTube in January 2017 and racked up more than a billion views in just 97 days — the second-fastest run ever. The video went on to become the fastest to garner 2 billion views and the first-ever video to exceed 3 billion, 4 billion, 5 billion, 6 billion, and 7 billion views.
1. Pinkfong — Baby Shark Dance (12.77 billion views) Sometimes a song becomes famous solely because it’s an earworm. We’ve seen it happen with Barney in the early days, so it’s no surprise it happened again with an insanely catchy kid’s song about a shark family.
Baby Shark Dance , produced by Korean pop manufacturer Pinkfong, isn’t a complicated song. It has sharks, repetition, and a considerable amount of existential dread — that’s about it. However, this song rose to become the No. 1 video on this list and has inspired countless variations that can be found across YouTube.
Let’s be honest: Baby Shark Dance ‘s success isn’t really all that surprising. If bringing up Baby Shark and playing it 12 times in a row is the only way to calm your toddler down, every parent with access to the internet is going to do exactly that. Expect Baby Shark ‘s reign as the most-viewed video to continue.
Do you want to watch these videos without an internet connection? Read our guide on how to download YouTube videos.
Editors' Recommendations YouTube tries new way of tackling ad blockers YouTube is rolling out handles. Here’s what you need to know 10 longest videos on YouTube Searches for health topics on YouTube now highlights personal stories YouTube’s dislike button is barely functional, says Mozilla Social Media YouTube Social Media YouTube Shorts, the video-sharing website's answer to TikTok videos, is getting a new comment reply feature and with it, looks more like its wildly popular competitor.
On Thursday, the new feature was announced via an update to a YouTube Help thread titled "New Features and Updates for Shorts Viewers & Creators." The announcement was posted by a TeamYouTube community manager.
Social Media Podcasts certainly aren't new to YouTube, but the popular video-sharing site appears to be making it easier to find them on its sprawling platform.
9to5Google has reported that YouTube has created a dedicated Explore page for podcasts and that it is currently live on the site for some users. The new Podcasts page is apparently still rolling out and has been since at least late July. While not everyone is able to view the new podcast Explore page right now, some of us at Digital Trends have been able to access it.
Social Media YouTube Shorts that are shared to other platforms will soon sport a new feature: a watermark.
On Wednesday, a reply was posted to a YouTube Help Community page titled "New Features and Updates for Shorts Viewers & Creators." The reply was posted by a Community Manager and contained a product update announcement regarding Shorts that essentially said that watermarks would be automatically added to Shorts that are downloaded and shared to other platforms.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
