Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? What is YouTube Music? Everything you need to know By Tyler Lacoma Close Google once had its own dedicated music player called Google Play Music — and if you’ve looked into that streaming option lately, you will see that it’s been shut down. As you may know, people regularly use YouTube itself to play music, search for new songs, and assemble playlists of their favorites. This prompted Google to release a new, upgraded service called YouTube Music, a music-only source for streaming your tunes.
The basics Music library Audio quality Costs and tiers Platform compatibility Features and music discovery Is YouTube Music a contender along with apps like Spotify , Tidal , or Apple Music ? Well, that may depend on how much you use YouTube to look for music and how important music videos are to you. Here’s everything you should know.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The basics YouTube Music is a dedicated music player with a free tier (ads included) that works via your Google account.
 Imagine if YouTube was nothing but songs and music videos, and you’ll have a pretty good idea of what to expect. It’s a significant update from Google Play Music, the previous player Google offered.
The interface is fast and notably more minimalistic than Google Play Music, getting you to your favorite songs and associated music videos ASAP with simple, direct controls. There are sections for your Home page, Explore to find new albums, Library to see your listening history and favorite artists or playlists, and an Upgrade section if you want to choose a subscription.
YouTube TV still leads after latest round of streaming numbers What is a network music streamer and why do you need one? YouTube TV is still growing on the back of NFL Sunday Ticket All this taps into your Google account information and history, so if you’ve already been using YouTube to listen to music for a while, you’ll find a lot of prompts to add your favorite musicians and build out a profile for recommendations (a step you can skip if you prefer). Left to its own devices, YouTube Music will continue playing past favorites that you’ve enjoyed.
Music library As of April 2023, YouTube Music officially has 100 million tracks available to stream or download. At one point, that might have sounded impressive, but most of the major music streaming services now boast 100 million songs in their libraries, including Amazon Music Unlimited , Apple Music, Spotify, Qobuz, and Tidal. Still, that’s a boatload of music and should suit most people just fine.
YouTube Music has also recently started gradually adding podcasts to its offerings as of April 27, 2023, allowing “those watching podcasts on the main app to continue listening to them on YouTube Music ,” as it’s meant more as a companion to YouTube’s main video podcasts. YouTube has also recommended that creators with audio-only podcasts create a video with a static image.
Audio quality YouTube Music offers three different audio tiers that you can switch between depending on how much bandwidth you are comfortable taking up. These tiers also dictate how much audio will download onto your device and the size of those files: Low : This sets the bit rate at 48kbps AAC.
Normal : This sets the bit rate at 128kbps AAC.
High : This sets the bit rate at 256kbps AAC.
You can switch between these at any time by heading to the YouTube Music settings. Downloads for offline listening provide you with standard audio files.
YouTube Music does not offer the ability to listen to or download high-res audio files — that’s one area where features like Apple’s high-resolution audio options and Tidal and Amazon Music’s Hi-Fi tiers, among others, can go well beyond what YouTube Music is capable of. If audio quality is your top concern when subscribing to a service, YouTube Music isn’t the best choice, but if you are interested in reliable streaming, it’s a very competitive option.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Costs and tiers The base tier of YouTube Music is free, but you will get some ads. They’re not as egregious as YouTube proper where ads can interrupt your music before every song if you skip around often enough, but they are present. If you want to pay for a higher tier, you have a few choices to remove ads and add extra capabilities.
YouTube Music Premium : Along with a rate increase for YouTube Premium, YouTube Music also saw a price bump in July, 2023.
 For YouTube Music Premium, fees now start here at $11 per month or $110 for an annual payment. This upgraded service grants access to its entire catalog, allows the app to play when your screen is locked (important for listening on phones), and cuts out the ads. It also enables song downloads for offline listening.
Family Plan : Starting at $17 per month, this option allows you to add up to five family members over the age of 13 in your household. It can also be used to manage YouTube TV services.
Student Plan : This discounted plan offers a three-month free trial and starts at $5.50 per month. Students will have to verify their education status each year to keep on using this plan.
Platform compatibility YouTube Music offers a web browser that will work from the browser of your choice, a good option if you’re on a desktop or laptop computer. However, there’s also a YouTube Music app that you can download to use the service independently. It works, of course, on Android , Google/Android TV , and ChromeOS, but is also available on iOS and WearOS for the Apple Watch. You can also easily cast it with Chromecast to any compatible screen if you want to pull up a music video, etc.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Features and music discovery YouTube is, after all, still YouTube: Music videos are integrated into the music player and play automatically if they are available with a song (otherwise, you get album art). The videos will downsize and stay in the corner if you navigate elsewhere in the YouTube Music app. Additionally, there are options to specifically search for live performances and similar categories. That makes YouTube Music one of the best options if you like music videos or you want a visual component in the background while you listen to music.
You can also choose to create an automatic playlist based on what music videos you’ve liked and listened to in the past, or create a new playlist of your own and add songs — with options to make it public on your YouTube channel or set it as private. There’s also a lot you can do with any individual song that you’re looking at. Select the Dropdown menu to a song, and you’ll see options to play it next, add it to your current queue, add it to a playlist or to your liked songs, learn more about the artist, and more.
YouTube Music will also produce automated mixes based on your favorite artists, as well as radio station recommendations featuring the sort of artists you like listening to. My Supermix is a great way to discover new music, and there are loads of other genre-based new release mixes as well. You’ll also find recommendations from broadly popular playlists, current chart-toppers, specific genres, and more. If you like playlists, you’ll find a lot to love here, but YouTube doesn’t have any human-curated options, so you’ll have to put your faith in the algorithm.
Most recently, YouTube add a new “Your music tuner” feature to the service that lets users create their own radio stations made up of music from up to 30 artists that they add. It can be tweaked to your preferences, like if you want it to just include artists you added or if it’s OK to include similar artists, too.
Editors' Recommendations YouTube’s enhanced 1080p video now available on more devices YouTube NFL outage: Should Google give refunds or credits? NFL buffering on YouTube TV? You’re not alone today YouTube rolling out some three-dozen new features this fall Multiview almost fixes one of the biggest problems with YouTube TV Music Streaming Services Audio / Video We're only hitting Week 2 of the 2023 NFL season, and already everything has changed. Maybe not for everyone, but certainly for folks in and around New York City. The Jets eked out a win despite losing quarterback Aaron Rogers after just four snaps. And it's arguable whether that's a more painful loss — literally, metaphorically, and spiritually — than the New York Football Giants getting shut out by Dallas in their opening game in a 40-0 walloping. Things aren't a whole lot better in Pittsburgh, which was the victim of preseason hype yet again.
That's the bad news. The good news is that we get to do it all over again this week with a dozen games up for grabs on NFL Sunday Ticket, which debuted admirably this season on YouTube and YouTube TV after decades locked away on DirecTV.
Audio / Video When it comes to streaming live TV in the U.S. (or streaming any kind of video anywhere, for that matter), resolution and bit rate remain as important as ever. And you're now able to enjoy YouTube TV in 4K. Some of it, at least. And if it seems like it's taken forever for that to happen, you're not wrong.
The basic fact is that it takes a lot of bandwidth to stream video — and that's even more difficult when you're talking linear TV, (and more so still if it's a live event like sports). So it's not really that much of a surprise to learn that most live channels stream at 720p resolution — or maybe 1080p if you're lucky. (We'll leave frame rate out of the equation for a minute, but it's a thing, too, especially for sports.) Audio / Video Much like our smartphones, tablets and computers, our smart TVs and streaming devices are powered by cutting-edge operating systems that control everything from the look and feel of your device’s menus and navigation to more unique features. That inlcudes what kind of content (apps and games) your TV will support and whether or not you'll be able to "cast" photos and videos to your new OLED using your iPhone or Android device. Every web-connected A/V peripheral has some kind of OS working behind the scenes, and the one we’ll be focusing on today is called Google TV.
Google TV goes toe-to-toe with other OS platforms, including Apple's tvOS, Amazon's Fire TV, and Roku's titular OS. Is it better than the rest? Let's unpack Google's foray into TV smartness to find out! Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
