Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Download YouTube Videos What is YouTube Premium? Price, content, and more Free Movies on YouTube Play YouTube in the Background What is YouTube Music? Home Mobile Guides How to play YouTube in the background on iPhone and Android By Mark Jansen and Simon Chandler Close YouTube is one of the most varied content platforms in the world, and it’s easy to find tutorials, TV shows , and even the latest music videos. But it’s not just about watching — sometimes all you want to do is listen to YouTube in the background while busying yourself with something else on your phone.
How to play videos in the background with YouTube Premium How to play YouTube videos in the background (iPhone browsers) How to play YouTube videos in the background (Android browsers) How to use YouTube's picture-in-picture mode on Android How to use YouTube's picture-in-picture mode on iPhone Difficulty Duration What You Need YouTube account YouTube Premium subscription An iPhone or Android phone Closing the YouTube app will stop the video from playing, but there are a few simple workarounds that will allow you to keep playing a video in the background — both on iPhone and Android phones. Better yet, there are ways to get a mini pop-up YouTube player while you browse elsewhere. This is our simple guide on how to play YouTube in the background , for both iPhone and Android devices.
Looking for music on YouTube to listen to in the background? Take a look at our guide on how to download music from YouTube and listen on any device.
How to play videos in the background with YouTube Premium YouTube Premium is a subscription service that gets rid of ads on desktop and mobile, opens access to exclusive videos, and allows for the downloading of videos. But crucially for our purposes, it also allows you to continue watching YouTube in the background after shutting off your phone’s screen or navigating to a different app. There are no steps to turning this on as it's on by default, so as long as you have YouTube Premium, it should work just fine.
YouTube Premium also comes with ad-free access to YouTube Music and it gives you the option to shut off the screen in that app, too. What is the catch? As you might expect, it’s money.
YouTube Premium will cost you $12 a month or $23 a month for a family subscription for up to six members — but you can get a one-month free trial. YouTube’s app is available for both Android and iPhone.
While the added cost isn't ideal, this is easily the most convenient way to play YouTube in the background on your iPhone or Android phone.
How to play YouTube videos in the background (iPhone browsers) But what if you want to play YouTube videos in the background on your iPhone without paying for Premium? That's where web browsers come in.
While shutting off the screen and continuing to listen to YouTube is a no-no in Safari and Chrome, it’s possible to use Apple’s Control Center with certain other browsers to bypass YouTube’s restrictions.
Firefox and Opera are two browsers that definitely work with this method, and we recommend testing out any other iPhone browsers you prefer.
Here’s how you can get this method to work.
Step 1: First, navigate to YouTube from your browser of choice. If Google redirects you to the app from Firefox, try typing youtube.com directly into the URL bar.
Step 2: Next, search for your chosen video.
How I use my Apple Watch and iPhone to manage my diabetes iOS 17: How to move notifications to the top of your lock screen iOS 17: How to use photo cutout to cut and paste images Step 3: Once you’ve found and opened your video, change over to the desktop version of the site.
This will vary depending on which browser you’re using, but it’s usually accessed from the Options button in the bottom-right, followed by a tap on the Desktop site option.
Step 4: Start your video. You may have to wait for ads to stop.
Step 5: Now go back to your home screen. Your video should start playing in picture-in-picture (PiP) mode.
Step 6: You can either leave the video playing in the PiP window and use your phone as normal, drag it over to the edge to hide it away, or tap the "x" button to close it.
While this requires a few more steps, it does allow you to play YouTube videos in the background on your iPhone — and without any money leaving your wallet.
How to play YouTube videos in the background (Android browsers) Playing YouTube videos in the background in Android can be done in Firefox in a similar manner to the one above for iPhone. We've tested this for Firefox, and it could work on other, smaller browsers too. However, it's unlikely to work on any browsers using Chrome as a base, as Chrome has removed this as an option.
Step 1: Launch Firefox as you would normally and go to the YouTube website. Make sure to type youtube.com in the URL entry, as tapping YouTube in Google search results will usually cause it to open the app.
Step 2: Navigate to the video you want to play in the background.
Step 3: Go to the Settings menu by tapping the three dots in the bottom-right corner of the window. Afterward, tap Request desktop site.
Step 4: Start playing the video, and swipe up to close your browser.
Step 5: Your video should keep playing, and will play in the notification shade.
How to use YouTube's picture-in-picture mode on Android This one seems like a bit of a cheat because it’s not an app at all. Ever since Android 8.0 Oreo , Android has enabled a “ picture-in-picture mode ,” which automatically pops up a miniature viewing window if you navigate away from YouTube. This window can be dragged anywhere on the screen and tapped to enlarge or to access playback controls.
This used to be for Premium subscribers only, but in 2018, Google started offering picture-in-picture on YouTube to non-subscribers, too , as long as you’re in the United States. However, it won’t work with content classified as music, so you’ll still need to pay for that.
On most Android phones, finding out which version you have is pretty easy. Simply go to Settings > About phone > Android version.
 You'll need at least Android 8.0 Oreo for this feature, and since Oreo is over five years old, it's likely you have a phone with this, or something newer.
How to use YouTube's picture-in-picture mode on iPhone Similarly, picture-in-picture mode is available for all iPhone users who subscribe to YouTube Premium. The feature is also available for non-Premium U.S. users. In other words, all iPhone users in the U.S. can watch YouTube videos in a pop-up window when the app is closed — even if you don't have Premium. There's nothing to this; just start playing and then go back to your home page.
Editors' Recommendations It’s finally happening — your iPhone is getting RCS in 2024 How to unblock a number on your iPhone One of our favorite Android phones just got its own iMessage app iOS 17: How to change the clock font on your iPhone I figured out how to protect my iPhone without an ugly case Android Apple How-To Android Apple Google How-To Guides YouTube Mobile One of the most exciting features to arrive in last year's iOS 16 release was a whole new level of customization for your lock screen. Rather than just letting you set a static image, Apple opened the floodgates to allow you to create screens that cycled through collections of your photos of friends, pets, and landscapes, see live weather updates and astronomical conditions, and much more.
The feature remains mostly the same in iOS 17, although Apple made a nice tweak in iOS 17.1 so you can now select any of your albums to show on the Photo Shuffle lock screen rather than being limited to the fixed smart collections of people, pets, nature, and cities. You can also still set up multiple lock screens to cycle through, and that also now means multiple Photo Shuffle screens to choose pictures from different albums. Since these can be set to automatically come up in different Focus modes, you can have your iPhone automatically switch between an album of professional pictures at work and family pics at home.
Mobile It could take a while before Android phones allow satellite connectivity to assist users in emergency scenarios, thanks in no part to Qualcomm canceling its ambitious Snapdragon Satellite plans. Apple introduced satellite SOS support last year with the iPhone 14 series, with the intention of helping people when they are out of cellular or broadband coverage range.
The feature allows you to text emergency responders, share locations, and request roadside assistance. But not long after, hope emerged for Android phones. Earlier this year, Qualcomm announced Snapdragon Satellite, with the goal of aping Apple’s initiative for Android phones.
Mobile If you already own the new Apple iPhone 15 or any of its variants but you're still stuck with a basic case, it's highly recommended that you take advantage of this year's Black Friday deals to enjoy some savings on a much-needed upgrade. Not only should you be providing the necessary protection for your iPhone 15 to keep it unscathed, but it would be a huge bonus to place it in a case that looks stylish and matches your personality. However, there's a problem -- there are thousands of iPhone 15 case deals that are available for Black Friday, so it's going to be very hard to narrow down your choices. That won't stop us from trying though, so you should read on.
Best iPhone 15 case Black Friday deal For serious protection without making your iPhone 15 too heavy, you should go for the OtterBox Commuter Series, which is on sale in Amazon's early Black Friday deals for $35 instead of $40. The $5 discount may not look like much, but it's a welcome bonus for what we've tagged as the best rugged case in our roundup of the best iPhone 15 cases. It's capable of withstanding three times the military standards for drop protection with a hybrid dual-layer construction that combines recycled rubber with a rigid outer shell, but it stays slim and lightweight so your iPhone 15 won't feel like a brick in your hands. We're not sure if this lowered price will remain online through to the shopping holiday, so you should think about making the purchase right now.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
