Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Share Wi-Fi Password on iPhone How to Restart iPhone Screen Record on iPhone Back Up an iPhone Clear Cache on iPhone Share Location on iPhone Home Mobile Guides How to screen record on an iPhone or iPad By Simon Hill and Andre Revilla Close Do your parents or friends constantly call you, asking how to do something on their iPhone? Or maybe you want to record a sweet Fortnite win that people just have to see? Since iOS 11, Apple introduced a native option to record the screen on iPhone, iPad, and iPod.
Setting up screen recording Recording your screen Editing a screen recording What once required a third-party app is now a stunningly simple process. For anyone who just needs basic functionality to record their screen, Apple’s built-in feature should suffice. Just a few taps, and you can share any video through any of your channels.
Difficulty Duration What You Need Apple iPhone or iPad Setting up screen recording Although screen recording is easy, you do need to make the setting available in the Control Center.
Step 1: To enable screen recording, go to Settings > Control Center.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 2: Scroll down to the More controls section to find Screen recording and tap the green Plus icon (+) next to it.
Image used with permission by copyright holder It looks like the iPhone 16 will get a big design upgrade It’s finally happening — your iPhone is getting RCS in 2024 How to unblock a number on your iPhone Step 3: A Screen record icon should now appear in the Control center , which you can access by swiping up from the bottom of the screen, or swiping down from the top right edge if you’re on an iPhone or iPad that doesn't have a Home button, like the iPad Pro and iPhone 14.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Recording your screen Apple has made screen recording simple.
Step 1: Open the Control Center and tap the Screen record icon.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 2: Once you tap it, you’ll have three seconds to close the Control Center before your phone starts recording. A red bar will appear at the top of your screen to let you know you’re recording.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 3: If you want to add audio to your screen recording, tap the Screen record target="_blank"> icon with extra pressure (3D Touch) for more options. A pop-up menu appears in the middle of the screen.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 4: Tap the Microphone audio icon, followed by the Start recording button to get going.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 5: When you are finished recording, the fastest way to stop recording is to tap on the red timer on the top of the screen. You’ll see the message Screen recording video saved to Photos appear in your Notification Center, and you can tap on it to enter the Photos app to watch your video. You can also go to the Control Center and tap on the Screen record icon to stop recording.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Editing a screen recording After you finish recording your screen, the app will automatically save the video to your phone’s Photos app. You’ll see the message Screen recording video saved to Photos in the notification bar.
Step 1: Tap on this notification to open the video. Or, you can open the recording via the Photos app to edit.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 2: Editing a screen recording is just like editing any other video in the Photos app. Open the video in Photos and select Edit in the upper-right-hand corner.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 3: A slider bar will appear below the screen recording. At either end of the slider are toggle bars that allow you to edit frame by frame. Simply drag the toggle bars to make adjustments to the beginning or end of your screen recording.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 4: When you are satisfied with your editing and don’t want to change anything else, simply tap Done.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 5: Save your work! Tap Save as new clip before navigating away from the editing screen.
Image used with permission by copyright holder When you are finished, you can save your edits, return to your file, and choose the Share button with the upward-pointing arrow to email the clip, send it on a messaging app, and upload it in a variety of different ways depending on your preferences.
If your built-in screen recorder isn’t doing enough, plenty of third-party apps like Go Record: Screen Recorder , ApowerREC: Record Screen , and Screen Recorder, Screen Capture — available on the App Store — offer additional functionality.
Since Apple’s screen recording features are pretty basic, apps like this are a great alternative.
Editors' Recommendations The iPad is going to get an amazing new feature in 2024 Best refurbished Apple Black Friday deals on AirPods, iPads, iPhones, and more How I use my Apple Watch and iPhone to manage my diabetes The iPhone is getting out of control iOS 17: How to move notifications to the top of your lock screen Computing Apple Apple iPhone How-To Guides Mobile Every year, we get a new iPhone; that’s just the way it goes. And one of the biggest upgrades each year is with the camera system.
Though the spotlight is typically on the Pro models of the iPhone, Apple gave us a pretty significant upgrade this year with the standard iPhone 15. Of course, it’s not as feature-packed as the iPhone 15 Pro, but Apple brought the Dynamic Island and USB-C to the regular iPhone 15, and even bumped up the camera to a whopping 48MP.
Mobile The iPhone has so many clever and fun little features that it's easy to miss some of them. One of the most whimsical features to come along in recent years is the ability to lift the subject of a photo away from the background so you can use it elsewhere — whether that's sharing it in an email, pasting it into a photo editing app, or even turning it into an iMessage sticker in iOS 17.
What's especially fascinating about this is that it seems like such a simple thing to do — and Apple does make it really easy — but there's a ton of number crunching going on under the hood to make it happen. This means you'll need an iPhone with a reasonably modern processor, but the good news is that it doesn't have to be the latest and greatest iPhone 15 Pro. While the insanely powerful A17 Pro chip in Apple's flagship smartphone surely helps things along, this feature can be used on any iPhone with an A12 Bionic chip or later, which goes back to the 2018 iPhone XS and iPhone XR.
Mobile iOS 17 is the latest version of Apple's mobile operating software, and as usual, it's brought with it plenty of new features and changes to get excited about. While not the biggest update around (it's telling when one of the major changes mentioned is the ability to send your contact information by AirDrop), iOS 17 is still worth paying attention to and getting if you have a compatible iPhone.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
