Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Download YouTube Videos What is YouTube Premium? Price, content, and more Free Movies on YouTube Play YouTube in the Background What is YouTube Music? Home Entertainment Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best free movies on YouTube right now (November 2023) By Nick Perry and Blair Marnell Close If you’re looking to cut back on streaming service expenditures, take solace in the fact that the best free movies on YouTube right now are still worth your time. Yes, believe it or not, YouTube has an extensive library of ad-supported free movies and TV shows for all. It’s not a spectacular collection, and it’s changing all the time, but there are plenty of quality entries. We keep this list up to date every month so you can stop scrolling and start watching.
Looking for more stuff you can watch for free? Check out our guides to the best free shows on YouTube and the best sites for watching free movies online.
Ghostbusters pg 1984 World War Z pg-13 2013 Die Hard r 1988 Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
Ghostbusters (1984) new pg 107m Comedy, Fantasy Bill Murray, Dan Aykroyd, Sigourney Weaver Ivan Reitman watch on YouTube watch on YouTube Read less World War Z (2013) new pg-13 116m Action, Drama, Horror, Science Fiction, Thriller Brad Pitt, Mireille Enos, Daniella Kertesz Marc Forster watch on YouTube watch on YouTube Read less Die Hard (1988) new r 131m Action, Thriller Bruce Willis, Alan Rickman, Alexander Godunov John McTiernan watch on YouTube watch on YouTube Read less I Kill Giants (2018) pg-13 106m Fantasy, Drama Madison Wolfe, Imogen Poots, Sydney Wade Anders Walter watch on YouTube watch on YouTube Read less My Friend Dahmer (2017) r 107m Drama, History, Crime Ross Lynch, Alex Wolff, Anne Heche Marc Meyers watch on YouTube watch on YouTube Someone at YouTube has very deftly picked up on the renewed interest in Jeffrey Dahmer by getting the rights to stream My Friend Dahmer.
 This serial killer movie is based upon the true story of John “Derf” Backderf (Alex Wolff), a cartoonist who was the closest friend that Jeffrey Dahmer (Ross Lynch) had in high school. In this adaptation of Backderf’s graphic novel, he and his fellow outcasts befriend Dahmer, but they aren’t blind to his bizarre behavior. However, they couldn’t have predicted that the awkward young man that they knew would go on to become one of the most infamous serial killers of the last century. It’s also a tragic tale, as no one notices how monstrous Dahmer has become until it’s far too late to stop him.
Read less Train to Busan (2016) r 118m Action, Horror, Thriller Gong Yoo, Jung Yu-mi, Ma Dong-seok Yeon Sang-ho watch on YouTube watch on YouTube Read less The Illusionist (2006) pg-13 110m Fantasy, Drama, Thriller, Romance Edward Norton, Paul Giamatti, Jessica Biel Neil Burger watch on YouTube watch on YouTube Read less Dear Mr. Watterson (2013) 89m Documentary Seth Green, Berkeley Breathed, Stephan Pastis Joel Allen Schroeder watch on YouTube watch on YouTube Read less Best Shows on HBO Best Movies on Netflix Best Movies on Hulu Free to Play (2014) 75m Documentary Benedict Lim, Danil Ishutin, Clinton Loomis Valve Company watch on YouTube watch on YouTube Read less Kung Fury (2015) 31m Action, Comedy, Science Fiction, Fantasy David Sandberg, Jorma Taccone, Leopold Nilsson David Sandberg watch on YouTube watch on YouTube Read less Night of the Living Dead (1968) 96m Horror, Thriller Duane Jones, Judith O'Dea, Karl Hardman George A. Romero watch on YouTube watch on YouTube A seminal entry for American horror cinema, George A. Romero’s classic horror movie follows seven people who find themselves trapped in Pennsylvania as the terrifying walking dead surround them. They have to try to survive without understanding the terror that lurks outside.
The movie has been noted as the first zombie film, and its influences can be seen in everything from 28 Days Late r to Shaun of the Dead.
Romero’s debut — he wrote, directed, edited, and acted in the film — made him into a superstar, quickly revolutionizing the genre on a budget of a mere $114,000.
Read less Editors' Recommendations The 50 best movies on Netflix right now (November 2023) The best Hulu original series right now The 50 best anime on Hulu right now The best feel-good movies on Netflix right now The best comedies on Netflix right now Best Products Streaming Services YouTube Movie images and data from: Entertainment You're going to see a lot of Christmas movies on Hulu through the end of the year. 'Tis the season for the Huludays, after all. While we'll go over your Christmas options at a later date, this month's selections of the best movies on Hulu feature a new original film, Quiz Lady, as well as A Haunting in Venice, which recently finished its theatrical run. The other prominent new additions are Jumanji: Welcome to the Jungle and the comedy biopic Driven.
Need help keeping up with everything new on Hulu? Every month, we go over the greatest films that Hulu has to offer while keeping track of what's coming and going. That's why our update of the best movies on Hulu is always current. We're here to help you plan your next movie night.
Entertainment When you need to keep the kids occupied for a while, it's helpful to know the best kids movies on Netflix right now.
Netflix has an enormous library of kid-friendly content, including a host of original choose-your-own-adventure stories, but it's natural as a parent to want to know what your kids is watching. So, to help you find something quickly, we keep tabs on the collection every month and surface the best options here.
Entertainment Netflix has grown into one of the best mainstream platforms to stream anime in recent years. Over the years, the streamer has served its animated catalog impressively well. Naturally, that dense library includes anime as well, and thanks to a respectable dose of original series and established hits, Netflix hosts some of the greatest anime to watch, spanning moves and TV shows of every genre a prospective fan could want.
Crunchyroll and Funimation are the primary streamers for the genre. Even so, considering the dominating presence Netflix has in the streaming market internationally, it's a worthy supplement. But even with how relatively mainstream the genre has become westward, it can still feel daunting to know where to start. Thankfully, this guide is consistently updated every month to help you pick from Netflix's library of excellent anime available now.
If you want more options, check out our other guides to the best anime on Hulu and the best anime available on Amazon Prime Video.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
