Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Download YouTube Videos What is YouTube Premium? Price, content, and more Free Movies on YouTube Play YouTube in the Background What is YouTube Music? Home Social Media Guides How to post a Short on YouTube By Anita George Close Shorts are short-form videos and they're basically YouTube's answer to TikTok. And similar to how you can create and post TikTok videos using the TikTok app , you can record, edit, and post Shorts directly from the YouTube mobile app.
And in this guide, we're going to show you how to do just that. Keep reading to learn how to post a Short on YouTube.
Difficulty Duration What You Need A mobile device The YouTube mobile app How to post a Short on YouTube For the purposes of this guide, we're going to mainly focus on how to record and post a YouTube Shorts video all from within the YouTube mobile app.
However, you don't always have to record your Shorts videos using the YouTube app and we'll also mention how to upload an existing video as a Short in the steps below.
Here's how to post a Short on YouTube: Step 1: Open the YouTube app on your mobile device and log in to your account if you haven't already.
Note: If you're recording your video using the YouTube app, please note that at this time, according to Google , you won't be able to do so on a tablet and that you'll need to do it on your phone.
Step 2: Select the Plus sign icon at the bottom of your screen.
screenshot Instagram Threads: what you need to know, and how to sign up How to deactivate your Instagram account (or delete it) These are the 10 most-viewed YouTube videos of all time Step 3: From the menu that appears, select Create a Short (if you're recording your video in the app).
If you're uploading an existing video: Select Upload a video instead and then choose the video you want to upload. Trim your video if needed then select Next.
 Add any extras like filters and text and then select Next.
 Fill out the details requested in the next screen, choose your settings, and then select Upload Short.
If you selected Create a Short , go to step four. You'll need to allow access to your phone's camera and microphone if you haven't already.
screenshot Step 4: You should see a video recording screen. You can either record a maximum of 15 seconds or 60 seconds. You can toggle between these video length options by selecting the 15s or 60s icon in the top right corner. When you're ready to record, select the big red circle Record button to start recording. Tap the red square Stop button to stop recording.
This screen also offers some minor editing options on the right side of the screen. Select the Down arrow icon on the right side of the screen to see all of the editing options and the names of each option. These options include things like trimming, retouching, adding filters, and adding a green screen effect.
screenshot Step 5: When you're done recording and editing, select the white Check mark icon. You'll then be taken to another screen that will display a preview of your video so far. This screen also lets you do things like add sound clips, text, and filters. When you're done with this screen, select Next.
screenshot Step 6: On the Add details screen, you'll need to add a caption to your video and select your video's visibility setting, choose your audience (Is it for kids or not?), and choose your setting for how you want to handle comments for this video.
Once you're done with all that, select Upload Short to post your Short on YouTube.
screenshot Editors' Recommendations How to download Instagram photos (5 easy ways) How to set your Facebook Feed to show most recent posts YouTube makes it easier for new creators to earn money YouTube relaxes rules around swearing and demonetization How to run a free background check Computing Apps How-To Guides YouTube Mobile Like most social media apps, TikTok allows its users to repost content they like so that they can show their followers. However, unlike apps like Twitter that make it clear exactly how to un repost and when you've successfully undone it, TikTok is a little more vague.
Social Media Sometimes to maintain your peace on social media apps you need to block certain users from being able to contact you. On Snapchat, you might need to block a friend or just prevent strangers from contacting you at all. We can show you how to do both and how to unblock people if you change your mind later.
Let's take a look at how to block people on Snapchat.
Social Media If you're new to Snapchat (or just a casual Snapchat user), you might not be aware of all of its features, including a certain lock-shaped icon. If you've ever wondered what that little lock icon means on Snapchat, you've come to the right place. In this guide, we'll explain what the lock is for and how it's connected to a Snapchat feature.
What does the lock mean on Snapchat? In Snapchat, that lock icon indicates that the Snapchat story you're seeing is what's known as a Private Story.
What exactly is a Private Story? A Private Story is a type of Snapchat story that allows the Snapchatter who posts it to restrict that story's visibility to only a few, select friends. That is to say, if you post a Private Story, you can choose which of your friends can see it. Additionally, the only user who can invite other users to it or add Snaps to a Private Story is the user who created the Private Story in the first place.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
