Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: ChatGPT Alternatives ChatGPT on Slack ChatGPT on Mac ChatGPT Plus ChatGPT Detection ChatGPT 4 Bing Chat Google Bard Google Bard vs ChatGPT The best AI chatbots to try out: ChatGPT, Bard, and more ChatGPT vs Bing Chat Home Computing Features 5 amazing things people have already done with ChatGPT By Alan Truly Close You probably already knew that ChatGPT could answer nearly any question you asked with great confidence as if it was the repository of all knowledge. What you may not have realized was how some creative usage of its skills could unlock all sorts of incredible, new abilities beyond simple text responses.
Make a logo with ChatGPT Create 3D animation with ChatGPT Composing an entire song Learning to make music Write an entire book in one day ChatGPT is a tool Here are five amazing things that people have already achieved with ChatGPT that show just how powerful it is.
Make a logo with ChatGPT grinvalds / Getty Images As I began researching interesting and unusual ways to use ChatGPT, I checked on the possibility of employing ChatGPT to handle some text-to-image challenges.
OpenAI’s Dall-E has already been making waves with its photorealistic and stylistic interpretations based on prompts. What visual skills does ChatGPT have? GPT-4 Turbo is the biggest update since ChatGPT’s launch Apple may finally beef up Siri with AI smarts next year Bing Chat just beat a security check to stop hackers and spammers While ChatGPT responds in text, it is possible to ask it to write the code to generate particular types of computer graphics. On Twitter, DataChazGPT had success in asking ChatGPT to create scalable vector graphics (SVG) code to draw the Twitter logo.
A neat #ChatGPT tip for designers from @faridsabitov ! Ask it to generate an SVG icon + copy and paste it directly to @figma 🤯🤯🤯 pic.twitter.com/ViwL0Bt45L &mdash; DataChazGPT 🤯 (not a bot) (@DataChaz) December 22, 2022 It’s important to keep in mind that ChatGPT will usually respond even when it’s just making things up, so it’s wise to double-check results before making use of any AI-generated code. In my own tests, I got a result that bore some resemblance to the Twitter logo the first time, followed by two blue dots on the second request, and a blue rectangle containing the word “Twitter” in white text on the third try.
ChatGPT did warn, in each case, “Keep in mind that this is just an example, and the actual Twitter logo may look different and use different code.” But that’s just in the case of recreating a logo that already exists. A better way to use ChatGPT might be to create a completely new logo for your product or business, which some have already begun to do.
Create 3D animation with ChatGPT Adam Doud/Digital Trends A much more impressive use of ChatGPT’s image coding skills results in 3D animation, albeit with a little help from a programmer.
YouTube channel MarbleScience asked ChatGPT to write the code for a marble bouncing on the floor, using the popular Javascript library “three.js,” which is a free, open-source, 3D framework for developers.
The code that ChatGPT provided was flawed, in that the ball moved upward so that it never bounced, but with a simple addition of a minus sign, a ball drops and makes a single bounce. After a follow-up question, requesting more than one bounce, ChatGPT guided MarbleScience to make adjustments to simulate the effect of gravity, providing multiple bounces.
For simple requests, ChatGPT code often works correctly with no modifications. For more complex programming, collaborative design seems to provide the best results at the moment, with a human expert correcting minor flaws and interacting with the AI to generate the bulk of the code. Just as with Tesla’s Full Self-Driving, replacing humans entirely is currently out of reach and someone needs to correct the computer when it makes an error.
Composing an entire song Image used with permission by copyright holder ChatGPT will sometimes remind you that it’s a large language model (LLM) that can’t connect to the internet and has no knowledge of current affairs. That means it can’t assist with writing articles that explore the latest advances in technology, for example. Music, however, has been around for as long as humans have walked the Earth and might be more accessible to this AI.
Musician Ramzoid shared his experience on YouTube of using ChatGPT to make music, rolling through several iterations as the AI created chord progressions, drum tracks, melodies, and lyrics. With a significant amount of help from the expert, Ramzoid managed to shape it into a nice pop tune.
Learning to make music A similar exploration by Ed Talenti, a music production expert, tested out the limits of AI music with ChatGPT. The chord progressions were interesting but it doesn’t seem to understand drum beats very well.
Rhythm is a natural part of life for physical beings like you and me, but an AI doesn’t have a heartbeat or a need to breathe. Of course, ChatGPT only knows what it has learned from humans, so there’s no reason it couldn’t lay down a catchy beat. Even so, the results were disappointing for these two musicians.
Talenti found that ChatGPT might be a great tool for learning music. It explains the reason for every suggestion and details how to create chords.
ChatGPT can also answer specific questions about music productions, such as how to compress a snare drum, providing room to expand your knowledge when you are ready.
What was amazing about the process was how quickly ChatGPT was able to supply creative elements of a song in a chosen style. If something doesn’t work, it’s easy to ask for adjustments and keep moving forward, a way to break through a creative block and inspire new ideas.
Write an entire book in one day Image used with permission by copyright holder Naturally, I had to give ChatGPT a try in helping with this article. I asked it to list some unique and creative ways to use an LLM. Among the suggestions, text generation for fiction caught my eye, and I checked if anyone had tried this yet. Various short stories abound, but no author has confessed to writing an entire novel with AI.
In fact, Reddit users Equal-Evidence2077 and AdmirableDrive9217 have lamented the toned-down approach of ChatGPT. The AI has been programmed to avoid violence and sexual situations, making fiction somewhat bland. Despite those limitations, the storytelling is impressive. ChatGPT can explain characters and details when prompted with questions later in the chat, demonstrating an understanding of the narrative. It doesn’t mind a rewrite request and makes adjustments quickly and without complaint.
Still searching for an example of an AI writing a whole book, I ran across a post by Reddit user jackb1980 , who asked ChatGPT to write a 16-chapter textbook on financial literacy. While it can’t do that in a single response, the AI did give a table of contents. Each chapter was then broken down by ChatGPT into a series of topics and each topic expanded into paragraphs. With a series of interactive prompts, jackb1980 was able to assemble the text of a 300-page, 16-chapter book.
ChatGPT is a tool Image used with permission by copyright holder ChatGPT really is a tool and by that, I mean an amazing personal assistant that can accelerate human potential or fill in a blank canvas and inspire creativity. ChatGPT can be frustrating at times, but paired with human sensibility, the AI provides nearly instant access to a vast amount of knowledge.
As another example of AI assistance, I created three of the images in this article with the assistance of OpenAI’s Dall-E. I tweaked the colors a bit to make them more pleasing and expanded the size with Pixelmator Pro’s super-resolution tool, but these are mostly AI-generated art, an area that has so far progressed faster than natural language processing.
Rather than feeling displaced by the rapid pace of AI, we should keep in mind that ChatGPT and large language models are simply a distillation of human knowledge, great research assistants, and idea generators. Everything these computer programs know comes from human-made training data. AI models are only amazing because you’re amazing.
Editors' Recommendations The world responds to the creator of ChatGPT being fired by his own company New ‘poisoning’ tool spells trouble for AI text-to-image tech OpenAI’s new tool can spot fake AI images, but there’s a catch Bing Chat’s ads are sending users to dangerous malware sites This powerful ChatGPT feature is back from the dead — with a few key changes Artificial Intelligence Features Computing OpenAI is rolling out new functionalities for ChatGPT that will allow prompts to be executed with images and voice directives in addition to text.
The AI brand announced on Monday that it will be making these new features available over the next two weeks to ChatGPT Plus and Enterprise users. The voice feature is available in iOS and Android in an opt-in capacity, while the images feature is available on all ChatGPT platforms. OpenAI notes it plans to expand the availability of the images and voice features beyond paid users after the staggered rollout.
Computing Most American adults do not trust artificial intelligence (AI) tools like ChatGPT and worry about their potential misuse, a new survey has found. It suggests that the frequent scandals surrounding AI-created malware and disinformation are taking their toll and that the public might be increasingly receptive to ideas of AI regulation.
The survey from the MITRE Corporation and the Harris Poll claims that just 39% of 2,063 U.S. adults polled believe that today’s AI tech is “safe and secure,” a drop of 9% from when the two firms conducted their last survey in November 2022.
Computing Facebook owner Meta is working on an artificial intelligence (AI) system that it hopes will be more powerful than GPT-4, the large language model developed by OpenAI that powers ChatGPT Plus. If successful, that could add much more competition to the world of generative AI chatbots -- and potentially bring a host of serious problems along with it.
According to The Wall Street Journal, Meta is aiming to launch its new AI model in 2024. The company reportedly wants the new model to be “several times more powerful” than Llama 2, the AI tool it launched as recently as July 2023.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
