Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: ChatGPT Alternatives ChatGPT on Slack ChatGPT on Mac ChatGPT Plus ChatGPT Detection ChatGPT 4 Bing Chat Google Bard Google Bard vs ChatGPT The best AI chatbots to try out: ChatGPT, Bard, and more ChatGPT vs Bing Chat Home Computing Guides The best AI chatbots to try out: ChatGPT, Bard, and more By Luke Larsen Close The idea of chatbots has been around since the early days of the internet. But even compared to popular voice assistants like Siri, the generated chatbots of the modern era are far more powerful.
ChatGPT ChatGPT Plus Google Bard Bing Chat PerplexityAI JasperAI ColossalChat YouChat Yes, you can converse with them in natural language. But these AI chatbots can generate text of all kinds, from poetry to code, and the results really are exciting.
ChatGPT remains in the spotlight, but as interest continues to grow, more and more rivals are popping up to challenge its crown.
ChatGPT Hatice Baran / Unsplash This one’s obvious, but no discussion of chatbots can be had without first mentioning the breakout hit from OpenAI. Ever since its launch in November of 2022, ChatGPT has made the idea of AI text generation go mainstream. No longer was this a research project — it became a viral hit, quickly becoming the fastest-growing tech application of all time, boasting over 100 million users in just a couple of months. The power and accuracy of the natural language chatbot is the main draw, but the fact that it was made free to try for anyone was important too.
GPT-4 Turbo is the biggest update since ChatGPT’s launch OpenAI’s new tool can spot fake AI images, but there’s a catch ChatGPT: the latest news, controversies, and tips you need to know ChatGPT is built on GPT-3.5, a robust LLM (Large Language Model) that produces some impressive natural language conversations. It is capped at knowledge from up to 2021, though, so it can’t access information that’s based on events after that. However, ChatGPT is particularly good at creative texts, so if you’re asking it to write stories or imagine scenarios, it’s remarkably good. Until it’s dethroned, ChatGPT will remain the go-to option for experimenting with AI chatbots, whether to speed up workflows or just to have some fun.
ChatGPT Plus Image used with permission by copyright holder Jumping on the success of ChatGPT, OpenAI quickly rolled out a paid service called ChatGPT Plus.
 At the time, it appeared to be a simple way for people to jump to the front of the line, which was increasingly long during peak hours. ChatGPT Plus was more than that, though. Once GPT-4 rolled out, it gave users access to a much more powerful AI chatbot.
Compared to GPT-3.5, this more advanced model has proven to be significantly more powerful than the version available in the free ChatGPT, especially as a tool to collaborate on longer-form creative projects with. In fact, despite how young it is, people have already done some amazing things with it , including programming an entire game from scratch. Plugins are another major benefit of ChatGPT Plus that greatly expand its capabilities, with some of the best ChatGPT plugins allowing you to tailor your chatbot around specific needs, such as interacting with PDFs, making calculations, or even searching the web.
When it comes to the most powerful AI chatbot you can get your hands on, the $20 a month is more than worth it for ChatGPT Plus.
Google Bard Image used with permission by copyright holder Outside the OpenAI ecosystem, Google has been the first serious competitor to step up to the plate with the release of Google Bard , which is still categorized as an “experiment” by the company. The chatbot got off to a rough start, though, stumbling at answering a question during the demo’s first preview, which was such a bad look that it sent the company’s stock tanking.
Since then, the company has slowly let more and more people into the free preview via its waitlist, even as Google admits that it’s only getting started. Google CEO Sundar Pichai even called it a “souped-up Civic” compared to ChatGPT , while denying the claims that it was trained partially on ChatGPT.
That’s not a great look for a company of Google’s size, but it seems determined to improve Bard and make it a serious competitor to ChatGPT.
Bing Chat Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Microsoft was an early investor in the rapid success of ChatGPT, quickly putting out its own model based on the same technology.
Bing Chat , as you’d guess by the name, builds OpenAI’s natural language generative AI into Microsoft’s own products. Through the new Bing, the AI chatbot is just one click away from the conventional Bing Search. Microsoft’s made lots of changes too, including adding source links, different modes to narrow down your results, suggested follow-up prompts, and even the Edge Copilot, which brings the AI chat with you no matter what webpage you’re on. Microsoft is even continuing to roll out Bing Image Creator directly into Bing Chat, which is a great addition.
Of course, the catch to all this is that you’ll need to download the latest version of the Edge browser. That’s a shame, as are the fairly tight restrictions on how many sessions you can have per day. Still, Microsoft remains one of the biggest players in the game, determined to roll out “Copilot” modes into all its most important products and applications, such as the equivalent of ChatGPT built right into Word or Excel.
Compared to the more straightforward ChatGPT , Bing Chat is the most accessible and user-friendly version of an AI chatbot you can get.
PerplexityAI Joe Maring/Digital Trends Bing Chat and Google Bard are direct alternatives to ChatGPT, but PerplexityAI does something entirely different. It’s a chatbot, yes, but it adds an interesting social element. Not only can you ask any question or give PerplexityAI any prompt, but you can also discover popular searches and “threads” that give you a pretty good idea of what’s going on in the world at the moment. Think of it like Google Trends being integrated directly into Google Search — all upgraded by AI.
Speaking of AI, PerplexityAI uses GPT-3, so while it’s not as accurate or powerful as ChatGPT, it does have a legitimate LLM (large language model) behind it. It also features suggested follow-up questions to dig deeper into prompts, as well as links out to sources for some much-needed credibility in its answers. More than anything, the free iOS app is sleek and easy to use, acting as an excellent alternative to ChatGPT.
JasperAI Image used with permission by copyright holder If your company or organization is looking for something to help specifically with professional creative needs, JasperAI is one of the best options. It helps creative professionals the most by being able to specify exactly what type of text you’re looking for. Need a caption for an Instagram post? How about a professional email, a YouTube script, or even a fully-written blog post? These specific platforms and formats are what JasperAI claims to excel at.
While professional use cases are the focus of JasperAI, the company also has a free Chrome extension, which lets you bring AI-generated text to more casual settings, such as writing personal emails or Facebook posts.
ColossalChat Photo by Alan Truly The initial versions of ChatGPT imagined a completely open-source AI chatbot, but the move to being a privately held company has changed that goal.
ColossalChat is a newcomer on the scene that recaptures that open-internet vibe. It’s free to use and available in browsers now, which makes it a solid alternative to ChatGPT when it’s at capacity. It can speak in Chinese and in English, and it can even write code.
But more than that, the open-source nature of ColossalChat is what makes it important. It’s based on LlaMa (Large Language Model Meta AI), which is Meta’s open-source natural language model, allowing for the closest thing that’s currently available to a completely open-source version of ChatGPT. That makes ColossalChat more important for developers and the future of AI implementations, but it’s certainly ready for anyone to just go and try out too.
YouChat Image used with permission by copyright holder You.com has been a little-known search alternative to Google since 2021, but it’s also been one of the early pioneers in implementing AI-generated text into its products. YouWrite lets AI write specific text for you, while YouChat is a more direct clone of ChatGPT. There are even features of You.com for coding called YouCode and image generation called YouImagine. All of these programs are based on OpenAI’s GPT-3 models (except YouImagine, which uses Stable Diffusion). That means it’s fairly adept at generating creative text or answering complex questions. Unfortunately, that means it’s not quite as useful as ChatGPT, which is currently based on GPT-3.5.
YouChat also offers extra resources to continue research and links out to related topics, which is handy.
So while it might not be as impressive, if you’re looking for an alternative, it’s close to giving you the same experience as ChatGPT.
Editors' Recommendations Google tackles scammers offering malware-laden ‘Bard’ tool Apple may finally beef up Siri with AI smarts next year Bing Chat just beat a security check to stop hackers and spammers This powerful ChatGPT feature is back from the dead — with a few key changes ChatGPT’s new upgrade finally breaks the text barrier Artificial Intelligence Computing Most American adults do not trust artificial intelligence (AI) tools like ChatGPT and worry about their potential misuse, a new survey has found. It suggests that the frequent scandals surrounding AI-created malware and disinformation are taking their toll and that the public might be increasingly receptive to ideas of AI regulation.
The survey from the MITRE Corporation and the Harris Poll claims that just 39% of 2,063 U.S. adults polled believe that today’s AI tech is “safe and secure,” a drop of 9% from when the two firms conducted their last survey in November 2022.
Computing Microsoft Copilot and Google Duet are the two most prominent artificial intelligence assistants put out by the various tech giants since OpenAI debuted its ChatGPT chatbot in 2022. They're set to bring that powerful natural language assistance into the enterprise in ways that can enhance productivity, improve the digital fluency of workers, and leverage existing data in new and exciting ways.
But which one is best? Both offer comparable features at a comparable cost, but they aren't interchangeable and even getting access to either tool requires a bit of luck. Here's how these two awesome AI tools compare.
Computing Facebook owner Meta is working on an artificial intelligence (AI) system that it hopes will be more powerful than GPT-4, the large language model developed by OpenAI that powers ChatGPT Plus. If successful, that could add much more competition to the world of generative AI chatbots -- and potentially bring a host of serious problems along with it.
According to The Wall Street Journal, Meta is aiming to launch its new AI model in 2024. The company reportedly wants the new model to be “several times more powerful” than Llama 2, the AI tool it launched as recently as July 2023.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
