Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: ChatGPT Alternatives ChatGPT on Slack ChatGPT on Mac ChatGPT Plus ChatGPT Detection ChatGPT 4 Bing Chat Google Bard Google Bard vs ChatGPT The best AI chatbots to try out: ChatGPT, Bard, and more ChatGPT vs Bing Chat Home Computing Guides The 10 best ChatGPT Plugins you can use right now By Jon Martindale Close ChatGPT is an amazing tool , but plugins make it even more so by unlocking a range of exciting new abilities. From booking a restaurant table for you to custom designing t-shirts based on your prompts, ChatGPT plugins are the future of AI chatbots. Until the next big thing comes along, at least.
How to use ChatGPT plugins Code interpreter Bing search Instacart ABCMouse Comic Finder Expedia Zapier ChatWithPDF Wolfram Speak Here are some of the best ChatGPT plugins you can use to leverage AI in ways you never even dreamed of.
How to use ChatGPT plugins In order to run ChatGPT with plugins enabled, you need to be a ChatGPT Plus subscriber. It’s $20 a month, but you get priority access to the chatbot so there’s almost never any waiting, and you can also use advanced features like the GPT-4 language model , and play with the new web-search capabilities of ChatGPT.
GPT-4 Turbo is the biggest update since ChatGPT’s launch OpenAI’s new tool can spot fake AI images, but there’s a catch Bing Chat’s ads are sending users to dangerous malware sites If you’re a ChatGPT Plus subscriber, to use plugins you need to enable them. Use the three-dot settings menu icon in the bottom left of the screen to toggle plugins to On within the Beta features menu. Then, in a new chat window, select GPT-4 , then select plugin s.
You’ll then need to scroll through the list to select the ones you want.
Look out for our favorite plugins below if you want to jump straight to the best.
Code interpreter This one is, unfortunately, a little hard to get access to, as at the time of writing, OpenAI has only made it available to select ChatGPT Plus members. If you have it, though, you need to give it a go. The Code Interpreter lets you upload files to ChatGPT (and download them afterward), as well as run Python scripts within the ChatGPT conversation. That means you can have ChatGPT create almost anything you want, from basic video editors to running data analysis on a range of information. You can then work on it with the ChatBot to perfect it.
Want some tips to get started? We have a great guide on how to use the ChatGPT code interpreter.
Bing search Image used with permission by copyright holder This one isn’t listed in the plugins menu on ChatGPT, but it’s there right next to the plugins module when you hover your mouse over GPT-4. Select it and you can have it search the web for you to augment its existing knowledgebase, answer questions from more recently, or perform research for you with multiple web searches. It can be a real timesaving feature and lets you keep all your ChatGPT interactions in one place, without having to visit the Bing website.
Instacart ChatGPT is great at suggesting recipes and can even do so based on a list of ingredients. The Instacart plugin takes it to the logical conclusion by allowing you to order food from the main Instacart service page. If you find yourself short of an ingredient when you’re putting together a meal with ChatGPT’s help, the Instacart plugin can make it super simple to top up what you’re missing without going to an entirely different site or service.
ABCMouse Image used with permission by copyright holder Got kids that are driving you up the wall asking for more time and attention than you have? ABCMouse is a great resource for providing different activities that your children can take part in based on what you tell the AI about them. It has activities for kids ages two to eight, and can make all kinds of suggestions for paid and free activities depending on what your kids are into.
You can specify what kind of materials you have handy, what kind of budget you’re working with, and how much time you have available. ABCMouse will find something fun and engaging for them to do.
Comic Finder Like your memes to be fresh and your reaction comics on point? Maybe you just can’t find that XKCD you swear you read years ago. Comic Finder can find the perfect comic for any situation. It currently supports XKCD and SMBC, giving you hundreds of comics to choose from. Ask for comics you’ve never heard of and see if anything comes up. You never know what it might find.
Expedia Image used with permission by copyright holder Plan your entire vacation within ChatGPT’s prompt window. With the Expedia plugin, you can have ChatGPT look up locations to visit, local resorts, restaurants, and activities, and factor it all in based on your budget. It can ask you follow-up questions to better fine-tune your search, and it can even base its suggestions on your availability, including preferred departure and arrival times.
You can also find ChatGPT incorporated into the Expedia standalone app if you’d rather access it that way.
Zapier Unlocking the true power of ChatGPT only really comes when you let it off the leash. That’s what Zapier can do. By combining ChatGPT’s natural language interactions with the Zapier plugin’s wider range of capabilities, you can have ChatGPT do almost anything for you. Hook it up to your Slack account and it can message anyone in your team and compose the message for you. Connect to your Gmail and it can send emails for you. Have it analyze data for you and spit our interesting results.
The only downside is that you need to pay for Zapier to get its full functionality. That might be worth it for you, but do your research before paying.
ChatWithPDF Want to have ChatGPT analyze a PDF for you? The ChatWithPDF plugin is great for that. It can analyze the PDF document, make suggestions about changes to it, extract relevant information, and summarize it — whatever you need. You can even use it to search through a long PDF document to find something you’re looking for, which can be a real time saver.
Do note, however, that there are a lot of websites claiming to offer AI PDF analysis for free. They may be legitimate, but they may also be looking for you to upload private PDF documents that they can glean information from. Only use the plugin via the ChatGPT prompt window on the OpenAI website.
Wolfram Image used with permission by copyright holder ChatGPT is already good at Math, but the Wolfram plugin makes it a practical genius in comparison. It gives it access to more powerful computational tools, better math skills, real-time data, and visualization, letting you ask far more complicated questions of ChatGPT that cover the fields of geography, mathematics, astronomy, chemistry, and more.
The responses for complicated questions when using Wolfram tend to be more accurate and focused on the kind of answer you were looking for. The standard ChatGPT model tends to give you a lot of additional information you don’t need, like showing it’s working.
Speak Move over RosettaStone, there’s a new kid on the block when it comes to learning foreign languages. ChatGPT with the Speak plugin lets ChatGPT coach you on a range of languages, helping you to better understand sentence structure, grammar, verb usage, conjunctions, and more, all within a ChatGPT prompt window.
Combine it with the Voice Control ChatGPT Chrome Extension and you can even talk with it to learn the language as naturally as if you were talking to a native.
Like that? Here are some more amazing Chrome Extensions for ChatGPT.
Editors' Recommendations The world responds to the creator of ChatGPT being fired by his own company Apple may finally beef up Siri with AI smarts next year Bing Chat just beat a security check to stop hackers and spammers ChatGPT: the latest news, controversies, and tips you need to know This powerful ChatGPT feature is back from the dead — with a few key changes Artificial Intelligence Computing OpenAI is rolling out new functionalities for ChatGPT that will allow prompts to be executed with images and voice directives in addition to text.
The AI brand announced on Monday that it will be making these new features available over the next two weeks to ChatGPT Plus and Enterprise users. The voice feature is available in iOS and Android in an opt-in capacity, while the images feature is available on all ChatGPT platforms. OpenAI notes it plans to expand the availability of the images and voice features beyond paid users after the staggered rollout.
Computing Most American adults do not trust artificial intelligence (AI) tools like ChatGPT and worry about their potential misuse, a new survey has found. It suggests that the frequent scandals surrounding AI-created malware and disinformation are taking their toll and that the public might be increasingly receptive to ideas of AI regulation.
The survey from the MITRE Corporation and the Harris Poll claims that just 39% of 2,063 U.S. adults polled believe that today’s AI tech is “safe and secure,” a drop of 9% from when the two firms conducted their last survey in November 2022.
Computing Facebook owner Meta is working on an artificial intelligence (AI) system that it hopes will be more powerful than GPT-4, the large language model developed by OpenAI that powers ChatGPT Plus. If successful, that could add much more competition to the world of generative AI chatbots -- and potentially bring a host of serious problems along with it.
According to The Wall Street Journal, Meta is aiming to launch its new AI model in 2024. The company reportedly wants the new model to be “several times more powerful” than Llama 2, the AI tool it launched as recently as July 2023.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
