Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Guides Caktus AI: How to use the ChatGPT alternative that can write essays for you By Fionna Agomuoh Close Caktus AI is a ChatGPT alternative that has piqued the interest of many people across the web, with approximately 1.1 million users having accessed the service since the beginning of 2023. It’s not quite as popular as ChatGPT , but it has a unique take on AI-generated content.
What is Caktus AI? How to use Caktus AI What can you do with Caktus AI? Can Caktus AI write essays? Do you have to pay for Caktus AI? Who owns Caktus AI? The student-focused tool has taken AI content creation up a notch with features that haven’t been seen on other services. The brand also offers a number of additional writing generators and several other tools in a myriad of unique categories. Here’s what you need to know about Caktus AI.
What is Caktus AI? Caktus AI is a content-generation tool with several different options beyond writing. Its creators call it an “academic curated search engine,” as it provides content for several different topics including STEM (science, technology, engineering, and mathematics) and studying, as well as coding and professional services. It is being compared to ChatGPT due to how its essay writer, paragraph writer, and other writing tools work. It might also be able to better evade AI plagiarism detection than its competitor, and has the ability to add citation sources to essays.
ChatGPT: the latest news, controversies, and tips you need to know ChatGPT’s new upgrade finally breaks the text barrier GPT-4: how to use the AI chatbot that puts ChatGPT to shame The additional tools included in Caktus AI make the service much more comprehensive than ChatGPT or many other AI generators.
How to use Caktus AI Caktus AI works similarly to AI generators like Jasper AI in that you can input a text prompt into your desired service and the chatbot will generate content for you. You will need to register an account to access its features. Unlike many other services that often allow you to use your Google, Apple, or Microsoft accounts as a login, you will have to manually create a username and password.
You should take a look at the company’s terms of service before signing up because the free trial for Caktus AI appears to be over, and there is no easy way to access your account unless you decide to pay for the Premium service.
What can you do with Caktus AI? Caktus AI has several functions. You can use it for a number of writing tasks, in addition to coding and professional development, among others. Many people have noted that Ted Talk to essay and YouTube to essay are some of the more interesting functions of Caktus AI. The latter, for example, can help you use a YouTube video to develop a script of your own.
Because the product is separated into different sections, it helps you navigate the prompts you would have to input into the AI generator to get the content you need.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Caktus AI provides several different topics within each section so you can zero in on your desired function, including writing, coding, career, studying, STEM, fun, arts, and science. You can preview many of the different special interest generators available on the dashboard before you log in and register.
Some of the top coding scripts available on Caktus AI include Python writer, Java writer, C# writer, Javascript writer, Go writer, and Typescript writer. For example, you can input C reate code for a racing game into the Javascript writer, and it will generate a unique code that you can use to build an app. There is also an option that will explain how the code works.
Caktus AI also offers language tutors for Spanish, Italian, Russian, Japanese, French, and Arabic, as well as a Mandarin answerer.
The STEM section of Caktus AI features several science, math, and business-based generators, including a general problem solver, a present value calculator, a derivative calculator, an integral calculator, a chemical analyzer, and a geology tutor.
Some of the more lighthearted uses for Caktus AI include generating class absence excuses, love letters, songs, captions, and text responses. You can also create flashcards for studying and use the citation generator separately from the essay writer.
Can Caktus AI write essays? Yes, Caktus AI can generate essays. The Caktus AI essay generator works a little differently than what many people might be accustomed to with ChatGPT. This product has its various services separated by topic, which can simplify inputting prompts because the service already knows you want an essay.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Unlike ChatGPT, for which you must indicate that you need a 50-word, 200-word, or 500-word essay on a certain topic for optimal results , Caktus AI can begin generating content with more of a keyword-style prompt or a more general statement query.
Since the essay generator is directed toward students, it produces only a set amount of content before allowing you to proceed by pressing the W rite more button. This then brings up a C itation selector , which allows you to choose a source that it will use to create additional content and then cite that source in your AI-generated essay.
Do you have to pay for Caktus AI? Yes, you have to pay to use Caktus AI. There is currently no free or trial tier of the product. Clicking on any of the services on the dashboard will take you to a signup page. If you register for an account, you’ll be directed to subscribe to the service. A Caktus AI subscription goes for $10 per month, and according to its terms and services, canceling the service might be a bit of a challenge.
Image used with permission by copyright holder It appears that there was previously a free trial of Caktus AI, which offered 5,000 characters at no charge. The Premium version of the AI service previously offered a two-day free trial, according to Blogger’s Grotto.
Reddit users have noted that these free options have disappeared in recent days in favor of the solely subscription-based service.
Who owns Caktus AI? Caktus AI was co-founded by Harrison Leonard and Tao Zhang in May 2022.
Editors' Recommendations The world responds to the creator of ChatGPT being fired by his own company This powerful ChatGPT feature is back from the dead — with a few key changes You can finally use Adobe’s game-changing AI features in Photoshop, Premiere, and After Effects Zoom adds ChatGPT to help you catch up on missed calls ChatGPT is violating your privacy, says major GDPR complaint Computing GPT-4 -- the large language model (LLM) that powers ChatGPT Plus -- may soon take on a new role as an online moderator, policing forums and social networks for nefarious content that shouldn’t see the light of day. That’s according to a new blog post from ChatGPT developer OpenAI, which says this could offer “a more positive vision of the future of digital platforms.” By enlisting artificial intelligence (AI) instead of human moderators, OpenAI says GPT-4 can enact “much faster iteration on policy changes, reducing the cycle from months to hours.” As well as that, “GPT-4 is also able to interpret rules and nuances in long content policy documentation and adapt instantly to policy updates, resulting in more consistent labeling,” OpenAI claims.
Computing Amazon is rolling out the use of generative-AI technology to summarize customer product reviews on its shopping site.
It follows several months of testing the feature, which is designed to help speed up the shopping experience for those who don’t want to spend a long time trawling through endless reviews.
Computing Newegg, the online retailer primarily known for selling PC components, has pushed AI into nearly every part of its platform. The latest area to get the AI treatment? Customer reviews.
On select products, Newegg is now showing an AI summary of customer reviews. It sifts through the pile, including the review itself and any listed pros and cons, and uses that to generate its own list of pros and cons, along with its own summary. Currently, Newegg is testing the feature on three products: the Gigabyte RTX 4080 Gaming OC, MSI Katana laptop, and Ipason gaming desktop.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
