Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: ChatGPT Alternatives ChatGPT on Slack ChatGPT on Mac ChatGPT Plus ChatGPT Detection ChatGPT 4 Bing Chat Google Bard Google Bard vs ChatGPT The best AI chatbots to try out: ChatGPT, Bard, and more ChatGPT vs Bing Chat Home Computing Guides GPT-4: how to use the AI chatbot that puts ChatGPT to shame By Alan Truly Close People were in awe when ChatGPT came out, impressed by its natural language abilities as an AI chatbot.
 But when the highly anticipated GPT-4 large language model came out, it blew the lid off what we thought was possible with AI, with some calling it the early glimpses of AGI (artificial general intelligence).
What is GPT-4? How to use GPT-4 When was GPT-4 released? Is GPT-4 better than GPT-3.5? The GPT-4 API Is GPT-4 getting worse? Where is visual input in GPT-4? What are the best GPT-4 plugins? What are GPT-4’s limitations? Does Bing Chat use GPT-4? An evolution, not a revolution? The creator of the model, OpenAI, calls it the company’s “most advanced system, producing safer and more useful responses.” Here’s everything you need to know about it, including how to use it and what it can do.
What is GPT-4? GPT-4 is a new language model created by OpenAI that can generate text that is similar to human speech. It advances the technology used by ChatGPT, which is currently based on GPT-3.5.
 GPT is the acronym for Generative Pre-trained Transformer, a deep learning technology that uses artificial neural networks to write like a human.
New ‘poisoning’ tool spells trouble for AI text-to-image tech OpenAI’s new tool can spot fake AI images, but there’s a catch ChatGPT: the latest news, controversies, and tips you need to know According to OpenAI, this next-generation language model is more advanced than ChatGPT in three key areas: creativity, visual input, and longer context. In terms of creativity, OpenAI says GPT-4 is much better at both creating and collaborating with users on creative projects. Examples of these include music, screenplays, technical writing, and even “learning a user’s writing style.” The longer context plays into this as well. GPT-4 can now process up to 25,000 words of text from the user. You can even just send GPT-4 a web link and ask it to interact with the text from that page. OpenAI says this can be helpful for the creation of long-form content, as well as “extended conversations.” GPT-4 can also now receive images as a basis for interaction. In the example provided on the GPT-4 website, the chatbot is given an image of a few baking ingredients and is asked what can be made with them. It is not currently known if video can also be used in this same way.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Lastly, OpenAI also says GPT-4 is significantly safer to use than the previous generation. It can reportedly produce 40% more factual responses in OpenAI’s own internal testing, while also being 82% less likely to “respond to requests for disallowed content.” OpenAI says it’s been trained with human feedback to make these strides, claiming to have worked with “over 50 experts for early feedback in domains including AI safety and security.” Over the weeks since it launched, users have posted some of the amazing things they’ve done with it , including inventing new languages, detailing how to escape into the real world, and making complex animations for apps from scratch. As the first users have flocked to get their hands on it, we’re starting to learn what it’s capable of. One user apparently made GPT-4 create a working version of Pong in just sixty seconds, using a mix of HTML and JavaScript.
How to use GPT-4 Jacob Roach / Digital Trends The main way to access GPT-4 right now is to upgrade to ChatGPT Plus. To jump up to the $20 paid subscription, just click on “Upgrade to Plus” in the sidebar in ChatGPT. Once you’ve entered your credit card information, you’ll be able to toggle between GPT-4 and older versions of the LLM. You can even double-check that you’re getting GPT-4 responses since they use a black logo instead of the green logo used for older models.
From there, using GPT-4 is identical to using ChatGPT Plus with GPT-3.5. It’s more capable than ChatGPT and allows you to do things like fine-tune a dataset to get tailored results that match your needs.
If you don’t want to pay, there are some other ways to get a taste of how powerful GPT-4 is. First off, you can try it out as part of Microsoft’s Bing Chat. Microsoft revealed that it’s been using GPT-4 in Bing Chat, which is completely free to use. Some GPT-4 features are missing from Bing Chat, however, and it’s clearly been combined with some of Microsoft’s own proprietary technology. But you’ll still have access to that expanded LLM (large language model) and the advanced intelligence that comes with it. It should be noted that while Bing Chat is free, it is limited to 15 chats per session and 150 sessions per day.
There are lots of other applications that are currently using GPT-4 , too, such as the question-answering site, Quora.
When was GPT-4 released? Shutterstock GPT-4 was officially announced on March 13, as was confirmed ahead of time by Microsoft , even though the exact day was unknown. As of now, however, it’s only available in the ChatGPT Plus paid subscription. The current free version of ChatGPT will still be based on GPT-3.5, which is less accurate and capable by comparison.
GPT-4 has also been made available as an API “for developers to build applications and services.” Some of the companies that have already integrated GPT-4 include Duolingo, Be My Eyes, Stripe, and Khan Academy. The first public demonstration of GPT-4 was also livestreamed on YouTube, showing off some of its new capabilities.
Is GPT-4 better than GPT-3.5? The free version of ChatGPT is still based around GPT 3.5, but GPT-4 is much better. It can understand and respond to more inputs, it has more safeguards in place, and it typically provides more concise answers compared to GPT 3.5.
However, as we noted in our comparison of GPT-4 versus GPT-3.5 , the newer version has much slower responses, as it was trained on a much larger set of data.
The GPT-4 API As mentioned, GPT-4 is available as an API to developers who have made at least one successful payment to OpenAI in the past. The company offers several versions of GPT-4 for developers to use through its API, along with legacy GPT-3.5 models.
The API is mostly focused around developers making new apps, but it has caused some confusion for consumers, too. Plex allows you to integrate ChatGPT into the service’s Plexamp music player, which calls for a ChatGPT API key. This is a separate purchase from ChatGPT Plus, so you’ll need to sign up for a developer account to gain API access if you want Is GPT-4 getting worse? As much as GPT-4 impressed people when it first launched, some users have noticed a degradation in its answers over the following months. It’s been noticed by important figures in the developer community and has even been posted directly to OpenAI’s forums. It was all anecdotal though, and an OpenAI executive even took to Twitter to dissuade the premise. According to OpenAI, it’s all in our heads.
No, we haven&#39;t made GPT-4 dumber. Quite the opposite: we make each new version smarter than the previous one.
Current hypothesis: When you use it more heavily, you start noticing issues you didn&#39;t see before.
&mdash; Peter Welinder (@npew) July 13, 2023 Then, a study was published that showed that there was, indeed, worsening quality of answers with future updates of the model. By comparing GPT-4 between the months of March and June, the researchers were able to ascertain that GPT-4 went from 97.6% accuracy down to 2.4%.
It’s not a smoking gun, but it certainly seems like what users are noticing isn’t just being imagined.
Where is visual input in GPT-4? One of the most anticipated features in GPT-4 is visual input, which allows ChatGPT Plus to interact with images not just text. Being able to analyze images would be a huge boon to GPT-4, but the feature has been held back due to mitigation of safety challenges, according to OpenAI CEO Sam Altman.
You can get a taste of what visual input can do in Bing Chat, which has recently opened up the visual input feature for some users. It can also be tested out using a different application called MiniGPT-4.
 The open-source project was made by some PhD students, and while it’s a bit slow to process the images, it demonstrates the kinds of tasks you’ll be able to do with visual input once it’s officially rolled out to GPT-4 in ChatGPT Plus.
What are the best GPT-4 plugins? Image used with permission by copyright holder Plugins are one of the best reasons to pay for ChatGPT Plus, opening up the possibilities to what the model can do. Two of the most powerful examples were created by OpenAI itself: the code interpreter and web browser plugins.
By using these plugins in ChatGPT Plus, you can greatly expand the capabilities of GPT-4. ChatGPT Code Interpreter can use Python in a persistent session — and can even handle uploads and downloads. The web browser plugin, on the other hand, gives GPT-4 access to the whole of the internet, allowing it to bypass the limitations of the model and fetch live information directly from the internet on your behalf.
Some of the other best GPT-4 plugins include Zapier, Wolfram, and Speak, all of which allow you to take the AI in new directions.
What are GPT-4’s limitations? While discussing the new capabilities of GPT-4, OpenAI also notes some of the limitations of the new language model. Like previous versions of GPT, OpenAI says the latest model still has problems with “social biases, hallucinations, and adversarial prompts.” In other words, it’s not perfect. It’ll still get answers wrong, and there have been plenty of examples shown online that demonstrate its limitations. But OpenAI says these are all issues the company is working to address, and in general, GPT-4 is “less creative” with answers and therefore less likely to make up facts.
The other primary limitation is that the GPT-4 model was trained on internet data stopping in 2021. The web browser plugin helps get around this limitation, though.
Does Bing Chat use GPT-4? Image used with permission by copyright holder Microsoft originally states that the new Bing, or Bing Cha t, was more powerful than ChatGPT. Since OpenAI’s chat uses GPT-3.5, there was an implication at the time that Bing Chat could be using GPT-4. And now, Microsoft has confirmed that Bing Chat is, indeed, built on GPT-4.
Still, features such as visual input weren’t available on Bing Chat, so it’s not yet clear what exact features have been integrated and which have not.
Regardless, Bing Chat clearly has been upgraded with the ability to access current information via the internet, a huge improvement over the current version of ChatGPT, which can only draw from the training it received through 2021.
In addition to internet access, the AI model used for Bing Chat is much faster , something that is extremely important when taken out of the lab and added to a search engine.
An evolution, not a revolution? We haven’t tried out GPT-4 in ChatGPT Plus yet ourselves, but it’s bound to be more impressive, building on the success of ChatGPT. In fact, if you’ve tried out the new Bing Chat, you’ve apparently already gotten a taste of it. Just don’t expect it to be something brand new.
Prior to the launch of GPT-4, OpenAI CEO Sam Altman said in a StrictlyVC interview posted by Connie Loizos on YouTube that “people are begging to be disappointed, and they will be.” There, Altman acknowledged the potential of AGI (artificial general intelligence) to wreak havoc on world economies and expressed that a quick rollout of several small changes is better than a shocking advancement that provides little opportunity for the world to adapt to the changes. As impressive as GPT-4 seems, it’s certainly more of a careful evolution than a full-blown revolution.
Editors' Recommendations GPT-4 Turbo is the biggest update since ChatGPT’s launch Apple may finally beef up Siri with AI smarts next year Bing Chat just beat a security check to stop hackers and spammers This powerful ChatGPT feature is back from the dead — with a few key changes ChatGPT’s new upgrade finally breaks the text barrier Artificial Intelligence Computing Most American adults do not trust artificial intelligence (AI) tools like ChatGPT and worry about their potential misuse, a new survey has found. It suggests that the frequent scandals surrounding AI-created malware and disinformation are taking their toll and that the public might be increasingly receptive to ideas of AI regulation.
The survey from the MITRE Corporation and the Harris Poll claims that just 39% of 2,063 U.S. adults polled believe that today’s AI tech is “safe and secure,” a drop of 9% from when the two firms conducted their last survey in November 2022.
Computing Facebook owner Meta is working on an artificial intelligence (AI) system that it hopes will be more powerful than GPT-4, the large language model developed by OpenAI that powers ChatGPT Plus. If successful, that could add much more competition to the world of generative AI chatbots -- and potentially bring a host of serious problems along with it.
According to The Wall Street Journal, Meta is aiming to launch its new AI model in 2024. The company reportedly wants the new model to be “several times more powerful” than Llama 2, the AI tool it launched as recently as July 2023.
Computing The Zoom video-calling app has just added its own “AI Companion” assistant that integrates artificial intelligence (AI) and large language models (LLMs) from ChatGPT maker OpenAI and Facebook owner Meta. The tool is designed to help you catch up on meetings you missed and devise quick responses to chat messages.
Zoom’s developer says the AI Companion “empowers individuals by helping them be more productive, connect and collaborate with teammates, and improve their skills.” Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
