Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Guides Why ChatGPT custom instructions are such a big deal By Jon Martindale Close Are you bored with telling ChatGPT who you are and what kind of responses you want, even before you get to your actual prompt? You’re not alone. Fortunately, the Custom Instructions feature is here to save the day. Implement it properly, and you’ll only have to tell ChatGPT one time that you’re a developer and want it to analyze your code, or you’re a teacher who wants help with lesson plans. It’ll remember it the next time you open a new chat, saving you precious time.
What are ChatGPT custom instructions? What can you do with custom instructions? How to turn on ChatGPT custom instructions For anyone who uses ChatGPT regularly, this is a game changer.
What are ChatGPT custom instructions? ChatGPT custom instructions are a way to preempt ChatGPT by giving it some key information about you and what you want it to do for you.
When I get ChatGPT to teach me board game rules , I no longer need to tell it that I’m providing it with board game rulebooks and that I don’t want it’s usual extraneous style of talking. I want it to get straight to the point as soon as I give it a PDF.
GPT-4 Turbo is the biggest update since ChatGPT’s launch ChatGPT: the latest news, controversies, and tips you need to know ChatGPT’s new upgrade finally breaks the text barrier With Custom Instructions, it does.
With the new feature, you’re able to tell ChatGPT two key pieces of information: who you are and how you want ChatGPT to respond to your prompts. You input this information into your profile, and then any time you start a new chat, ChatGPT will look over your quick cover letter to the AI before it begins a conversation, thereby preloading it with the kind of instructions that, until now, you’d have to give it every time you opened a new chat.
This isn’t a feature that will be hugely useful for those using ChatGPT for a range of applications, or who frequently have varied discussions with the chatbot. If you use ChatGPT for work, though, or want to frame most of your prompts from a similar baseline of understanding, this tool is a godsend.
In this example, OpenAI shows how Custom Instructions can jump right into providing concise, applicable responses, instead of rambling in its usual imprecise fashion.
OpenAI What can you do with custom instructions? ChatGPT custom instructions are mostly a time-saving mechanic, but they can also make the process of using ChatGPT far more streamlined — especially for professionals. That can make it a far more effective tool, and a great way to further enhance your productivity.
If you’re using ChatGPT for research, you can tell if you’re a student or researcher and ask it to provide detailed citations and references with whatever information it provides.
If you’re a programmer using ChatGPT to write code, make sure it knows you’re a programmer, what languages you like to work in, and that you want clear and concise comments throughout. You could also tell it you want it to follow the DRY, KISS, or YAGNI principles.
Want ChatGPT to just be more precise and concise in its responses? Let it know that you want it to keep its answers short, with no extraneous text, including apologies and reminders. You might ask it to keep all answers to a certain length, or to use bullet points and other formatting to make the response more easy to read.
If you’d like additional help in breaking down complicated topics, ask ChatGPT to respond to each prompt twice, once in a detailed fashion designed to help those familiar with a topic, and another in a more easy-to-understand way, similar to how a teacher might approach a topic for someone just learning it for the first time.
You can even make your chats with ChatGPT more fun. Let it know you want it to talk with a certain patois, or to pepper in some jokes and phrases. Tell it you want an informal conversation and don’t mind it being a little sarcastic sometimes.
Ultimately, just think about anything you often feel the need to ask for, then tell ChatGPT before you actually start hitting it with the prompts you want it to answer: That’s what you want to put in the Custom Instructions fields.
How to turn on ChatGPT custom instructions To use ChatGPT’s Custom Instructions feature, you’ll need to be a ChatGPT Plus subscriber and reside in the U.S. At the time of writing, custom instructions are not available in the EU or United Kingdom.
Like the recently disabled web browsing, plugins , or the code interpreter , Custom Instructions is a beta feature of ChatGPT, so you’ll need to enable it before you can use it. Here’s how: Step 1: Open a browser and navigate to the OpenAI website, or open the ChatGPT iOS app.
Step 2: Log in if necessary.
Step 3: For web users, select the three-dot menu icon in the bottom-left, then navigate to Settings > Beta features and turn the Custom Instructions toggle to On.
 For iOS users, navigate to Settings > New Features > turn on Custom Instructions.
Step 4: The custom instruction fields will then appear in your Settings menu. Fill the inputs with whatever information you feel is necessary, then start a new chat with ChatGPT for it to consider your inputs form the outset.
Interested in what the competition is up to? Here are some of the best tools using the advanced GPT-4 language model.
Editors' Recommendations The world responds to the creator of ChatGPT being fired by his own company Best 17-inch laptop deals: Big savings on big screens This powerful ChatGPT feature is back from the dead — with a few key changes GPT-4: how to use the AI chatbot that puts ChatGPT to shame Zoom adds ChatGPT to help you catch up on missed calls Computing Ever since the first generative artificial intelligence (AI) tools exploded onto the tech scene, there have been questions over where they’re getting their data and whether they’re harvesting your private data to train their products. Now, ChatGPT maker OpenAI could be in hot water for exactly these reasons.
According to TechCrunch, a complaint has been filed with the Polish Office for Personal Data Protection alleging that ChatGPT violates a large number of rules found in the European Union’s General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). It suggests that OpenAI’s tool has been scooping up user data in all sorts of questionable ways.
Mobile Fiber-optic technology is the future of the internet. These revolutionary new cables allow internet speeds of 100GB per second -- that's right, gigabytes. Of course that technology is out of the reach of most folks right now, but if Verizon has started laying fiber optic cables in your area, you could get up to 1GB/s speeds at home. You'll have to see if fiber optic is available in your area first, then choose the plan that's right for you. Below we've collected all of the Verizon Fios new customer deals available right now. Check out your options to figure out which speed to cost ratio is right for you.
Verizon Fios covers your home landline phone service, but if you're specifically after a new mobile plan, then check out these cell phone plan deals once you're finished here.
Gigabit Verizon Fios connection -- $90 per month and free Disney+ for 6 months When you buy Verizon's 1GB connection, which has speeds up to 940Mbps, you're not just getting the fastest internet Verizon Fios currently offers. Verizon will throw in some awesome free benefits with it. You get 2TB of Verizon Cloud Storage for free, a service that would normally cost $15 per month. You also get a $300 voucher for a Samsung soundbar, something to rival some of the best soundbar deals out there. You also get your choice of either a free year of the Disney Bundle, which includes Disney+, ESPN+ and Hulu, or a free PS5 controller and headset. That's a ton of perks on top of incredibly fast internet.
Computing GPT-4 -- the large language model (LLM) that powers ChatGPT Plus -- may soon take on a new role as an online moderator, policing forums and social networks for nefarious content that shouldn’t see the light of day. That’s according to a new blog post from ChatGPT developer OpenAI, which says this could offer “a more positive vision of the future of digital platforms.” By enlisting artificial intelligence (AI) instead of human moderators, OpenAI says GPT-4 can enact “much faster iteration on policy changes, reducing the cycle from months to hours.” As well as that, “GPT-4 is also able to interpret rules and nuances in long content policy documentation and adapt instantly to policy updates, resulting in more consistent labeling,” OpenAI claims.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
