Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: ChatGPT Alternatives ChatGPT on Slack ChatGPT on Mac ChatGPT Plus ChatGPT Detection ChatGPT 4 Bing Chat Google Bard Google Bard vs ChatGPT The best AI chatbots to try out: ChatGPT, Bard, and more ChatGPT vs Bing Chat Home Computing Guides ChatGPT vs. Bing Chat: which is the best AI chatbot? By Jon Martindale Close Bing Chat and ChatGPT are two of the latest natural language chatbots to become widely available, and both are competing for your attention and text prompts. Both AIs are based on similar language models, but there are some distinct differences between them, making the ChatGPT versus Bing Chat debate one well worth having.
How do you use ChatGPT and Bing Chat? What language models do ChatGPT and Bing Chat use? What can you do with ChatGPT and Bing Chat? AI image generation Is Bing Chat more accurate than ChatGPT? Both chatbots have their place If you want to play around with these two exciting tools, here’s everything you need to know to pick the right one for you.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends How do you use ChatGPT and Bing Chat? Both Bing Chat and ChatGPT are available for general use, but the way you access them is a little different.
ChatGPT is widely available and accessible through the main OpenAI website.
 You can use ChatGPT for free once you’ve made an account, and there are ways you can quickly access it from your desktop or Mac if needed.
Photo by Alan Truly Bing Chat is also available and is no longer on a waitlist. However, it does require you to download the latest version of Microsoft Edge, which is kind of annoying. On the other hand, Bing Chat is available on more platforms, including the mobile Edge browser for smartphones. Not only can you access it through the official website, but you can access it through Bing on any supporting device too. There are also integrations of Bing Chat in Skype, Teams, and the Edge browser.
ChatGPT is available in Slack and is soon coming to Discord.
GPT-4 Turbo is the biggest update since ChatGPT’s launch OpenAI’s new tool can spot fake AI images, but there’s a catch Bing Chat’s ads are sending users to dangerous malware sites ChatGPT is free to use, but there is a premium paid tier, known as ChatGPT Plus , which gives greater access to the tool, including GPT-4.
 Bing Chat is entirely free, but there’s a limit of 150 conversations you can have per day, with a limit of 15 chats per session. Conversation length is also limited to 2,000 characters per prompt or response. ChatGPT has a character limit as well but doesn’t currently have a limit on conversations you can have per day.
What language models do ChatGPT and Bing Chat use? The current version of ChatGPT that you can access for free is based on the GPT-3.5 language model. According to Microsoft, Bing Chat actually uses the more advanced GPT-4 model, which was recently announced.
In theory, that means Bing Chat should be more useful. Just be careful you don’t wander into Wargames territory by playing certain games, as Bing Chat has been known to get a little existential at times.
Both ChatGPT and Bing Chat are based on the same fundamental language model, known as GPT-3.5. They have access to information up to and including 2021, which gives them huge scope for responding to natural language questions, and with relatively up-to-date information. However, that can leave holes in their knowledge.
Bing Chat, on the other hand, has the ability to pull from more recent web sources. It has also undergone additional training to make it more capable of following instructions and completing more nuanced tasks.
What can you do with ChatGPT and Bing Chat? The core function of both ChatGPT and Bing Chat is that they can understand when you ask them questions or make statements in natural, human language. Both services support a range of languages, though ChatGPT is more focused on English, whereas Bing Chat offers a wider array of non-English languages.
Both Bing Chat and ChatGPT can be used for research, asking questions that go beyond what traditional search engines are capable of understanding. For example, I used it for a recent article I wrote about Nvidia’s biggest failings , by asking, “What are the reasons for Nvidia’s largest stock value drops?” If it’s something you’d type in Google Search, you can also put it in one of these AI chatbots.
ChatGPT is particularly good at creative writing, so asking it to write something about a certain topic, or in the style of another writer, will result in a very credible attempt at completing what you ask of it. Do note, though, that ChatGPT cannot fact-check itself against multiple sources, so it can introduce errors with just as much confidence as it does statements of fact.
Bing Chat isn’t quite so good at that type of writing, as it can’t provide such lengthy responses and is more driven by facts than creative endeavors. However, Bing Chat has a number of discrete modes that it can be switched into, turning it into a virtual assistant or a casual friend who will chat with you about everyday life.
Being able to choose between Creative, Balanced, and Precise is fantastic, allowing you to tailor your conversations more aimed at your goal. The one-size-fits-all approach of ChatGPT requires a bit more nuance and description in the prompts.
There’s also a hidden game mode, where you can play trivia, hangman, and other simple games with it.
Lastly, Bing Chat has its new Copilot mode , which splits it into three modes: chat, compose, and insights. Open as a sidebar along what you’re other browsing, these modes help Bing Chat narrow down responses and focus your prompts.
AI image generation Bing Chat has recently gained the feature to generate AI imagery, which Microsoft calls Bing Image Creator.
 Built on an “advanced” DALL-E model , Bing Image Creator allows you to generate images right in the context of a chat — something ChatGPT hasn’t yet done.
OpenAI is the creator of the DALL-E model, of course, but still treats image generation and text generation as two separate products. From what we’ve seen so far, Microsoft is the first company to try and integrate the two together.
Is Bing Chat more accurate than ChatGPT? Image used with permission by copyright holder Bing Chat has the potential to be more accurate than ChatGPT because it pulls from more recent information and relies on multiple sources of information.
ChatGPT is based on a singular source of data from its language model, so it doesn’t have access to more recent information and cannot cross-reference its responses to confirm accuracy.
Because Bing Chat is based on GPT-4, in theory, it should quite a bit more powerful and nuanced than ChatGPT. The early tests of GPT-4 in ChatGPT Plus have shown some promising results so far, such as one user’s success at creating a workable game of Pong in less than 60 seconds.
In terms of accuracy, the other interesting feature offered by Bing Chat is its “learn more” suggestions. Not only is this a more ethical and transparent way of displaying info, it also gives you somewhere to go next — more like a proper search engine.
Both chatbots have their place Bing Chat and ChatGPT are new and very exciting tools with heaps of potential. They’re each better at certain things, with Bing Chat better at finding up-to-date information and acting as an assistant, while ChatGPT is more adept at creative conversations or helping with writing in a specific style. It can be great for prompts, or for proofreading something you’ve written.
Bing Chat is a nice place to start though. If it’s your first time, it can be a good place to start, given the guidance and prompting offered by Microsoft. When it comes down to it, though, the limit of 15 chats per session and 150 conversations and the requirement to download Edge will lead people to ChatGPT first, allowing for more exploration without needing to worry about using up your daily allowance.
Editors' Recommendations The world responds to the creator of ChatGPT being fired by his own company Apple may finally beef up Siri with AI smarts next year Bing Chat just beat a security check to stop hackers and spammers ChatGPT: the latest news, controversies, and tips you need to know This powerful ChatGPT feature is back from the dead — with a few key changes Artificial Intelligence Microsoft Computing OpenAI is rolling out new functionalities for ChatGPT that will allow prompts to be executed with images and voice directives in addition to text.
The AI brand announced on Monday that it will be making these new features available over the next two weeks to ChatGPT Plus and Enterprise users. The voice feature is available in iOS and Android in an opt-in capacity, while the images feature is available on all ChatGPT platforms. OpenAI notes it plans to expand the availability of the images and voice features beyond paid users after the staggered rollout.
Computing Most American adults do not trust artificial intelligence (AI) tools like ChatGPT and worry about their potential misuse, a new survey has found. It suggests that the frequent scandals surrounding AI-created malware and disinformation are taking their toll and that the public might be increasingly receptive to ideas of AI regulation.
The survey from the MITRE Corporation and the Harris Poll claims that just 39% of 2,063 U.S. adults polled believe that today’s AI tech is “safe and secure,” a drop of 9% from when the two firms conducted their last survey in November 2022.
Computing Microsoft Copilot and Google Duet are the two most prominent artificial intelligence assistants put out by the various tech giants since OpenAI debuted its ChatGPT chatbot in 2022. They're set to bring that powerful natural language assistance into the enterprise in ways that can enhance productivity, improve the digital fluency of workers, and leverage existing data in new and exciting ways.
But which one is best? Both offer comparable features at a comparable cost, but they aren't interchangeable and even getting access to either tool requires a bit of luck. Here's how these two awesome AI tools compare.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
