Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: ChatGPT Alternatives ChatGPT on Slack ChatGPT on Mac ChatGPT Plus ChatGPT Detection ChatGPT 4 Bing Chat Google Bard Google Bard vs ChatGPT The best AI chatbots to try out: ChatGPT, Bard, and more ChatGPT vs Bing Chat Home Computing Features Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Here are 11 things that ChatGPT will refuse to do By Jon Martindale Close ChatGPT is an amazing tool, a modern marvel of natural language artificial intelligence that can do incredible things. But with great power comes great responsibility, so ChatGPT developer OpenAI put some safeguards in place to prevent it from doing things it shouldn’t. It also has some limitations based on its design, the data it was trained on, and the sheer limitations of a text-based AI.
It can’t write about anything after 2021 It won’t get into political debates It (probably) won’t make malware It can’t predict the future It won’t promote harm or violence It can’t search the internet It won’t promote hate speech or discrimination It won’t promote illegal activities It won’t swear It can’t discuss proprietary or private information It won’t try to break its programming (unless you trick it) There are, of course, differences between what GPT-3.5 can do compared to GPT-4 , which is only available through ChatGPT Plus. Some of those things are just on hold while it develops further, but there are some things ChatGPT may never be able to do. Here’s a list of 11 things that ChatGPT can’t or won’t do. — for now.
It can’t write about anything after 2021 Image used with permission by copyright holder ChatGPT is built by training the language model on existing data. That includes Reddit posts, Wikipedia, and even board game manuals — yes, really.
 But that data had to have a cutoff point somewhere, and for ChatGPT, it’s 2021. For GPT-3.5, it’s around June 2021, whereas GPT-4 was trained on data up till around September 2021.
GPT-4 Turbo is the biggest update since ChatGPT’s launch OpenAI’s new tool can spot fake AI images, but there’s a catch This powerful ChatGPT feature is back from the dead — with a few key changes If you ask it questions beyond that, it will typically tell you that, “As an AI language model…,” it only has access to its training data, which in the case of these models, stops in 2021.
It won’t get into political debates The last thing OpenAI needs is politicians regulating it. It’ll probably happen, but until then ChatGPT is steering well clear of partisan politics. It can speak in generalities about parties, or discuss objective and factual aspects of politics, but ask it for a preference of one political party or stance over another, and it’ll either turn you down, or “both-sides” the discussion in as neutral a fashion as possible.
It (probably) won’t make malware ChatGPT is excellent at programming, especially when given clear guidance, so OpenAI has safeguards in place to stop it from being used to make malware. Unfortunately, those safeguards are easily circumvented, and ChatGPT has been making malware for months already.
Image used with permission by copyright holder It can’t predict the future Partly based on its limited training data, and partly because OpenAI wants to avoid liability for mistakes, ChatGPT cannot predict the future. It will have a good guess at it if you jailbreak ChatGPT first , but that sends accuracy nosediving, so view whatever response it gives you with skep[ticism It won’t promote harm or violence War, physical violence, or even implied harm are all off the table as far as ChatGPT is concerned. It won’t be drawn into debates on the war in Ukraine, and will refuse to discuss or promote harm. It can talk about war or historical atrocities in great detail, but existing or ongoing conflict is a no-go.
It can’t search the internet This is one of the biggest differences between ChatGPT and Google Bard.
 ChatGPT cannot search the internet in any way, while Google Bard was designed as a current AI chatbot that can very much search the internet.
If you want to use the same GPT 3.5 and GPT-4 language models as ChatGPT, but with live search, you can always use Bing Chat.
 It’s basically ChatGPT, but incorporated with Microsoft’s Bing search engine.
It won’t promote hate speech or discrimination Race, sexuality, and gender are topics that are very emotionally charged and ripe for leading into talk of prejudice and discrimination. ChatGPT will skirt around these topics, leaning into a meta discussion of them, or speaking in generalities. If pushed, it will outright refuse to discuss topics that it feels could promote hate speech or discrimination. For obvious reasons.
Image used with permission by copyright holder It won’t promote illegal activities ChatGPT is great at coming up with ideas, but it won’t come up with illegal ones. You can’t have it help you with your drug business, or highlight the best roads for speeding. Try, and it will simply tell you that it can’t make any suggestions related to illegal activity. It will then typically give you a pep talk about how you shouldn’t be engaging in such activities, anyway. Thanks MomGPT.
It won’t swear ChatGPT does not have a potty mouth. In fact, getting it to say anything even remotely rude is tricky. It can, if you use some jailbreaking tips to let it off the leash, but in its default configuration, it won’t so much as thumb its nose in anyone’s direction.
It can’t discuss proprietary or private information ChatGPT’s training data was all publicly available information, mostly found on the internet. That’s super-useful for prompts and queries that are related to publicly available information, but it means that ChatGPT can’t act on information it doesn’t have access to. If you’re asking it something based on privately held data, it won’t be able to respond effectively, and will tell you as such.
It won’t try to break its programming (unless you trick it) Since ChatGPT launched, users have been trying to get around its limitations and safeguards. Because of course theyhave. Straight-up asking ChatGPT to circumvent its safeguards won’t work. There are ways to trick it into doing so, though.
That’s called jailbreaking , and it kind of works. Sometimes.
Editors' Recommendations The world responds to the creator of ChatGPT being fired by his own company Apple may finally beef up Siri with AI smarts next year Bing Chat just beat a security check to stop hackers and spammers ChatGPT’s new upgrade finally breaks the text barrier Most people distrust AI and want regulation, says new survey Artificial Intelligence Features Computing Facebook owner Meta is working on an artificial intelligence (AI) system that it hopes will be more powerful than GPT-4, the large language model developed by OpenAI that powers ChatGPT Plus. If successful, that could add much more competition to the world of generative AI chatbots -- and potentially bring a host of serious problems along with it.
According to The Wall Street Journal, Meta is aiming to launch its new AI model in 2024. The company reportedly wants the new model to be “several times more powerful” than Llama 2, the AI tool it launched as recently as July 2023.
Computing The Zoom video-calling app has just added its own “AI Companion” assistant that integrates artificial intelligence (AI) and large language models (LLMs) from ChatGPT maker OpenAI and Facebook owner Meta. The tool is designed to help you catch up on meetings you missed and devise quick responses to chat messages.
Zoom’s developer says the AI Companion “empowers individuals by helping them be more productive, connect and collaborate with teammates, and improve their skills.” Computing Ever since the first generative artificial intelligence (AI) tools exploded onto the tech scene, there have been questions over where they’re getting their data and whether they’re harvesting your private data to train their products. Now, ChatGPT maker OpenAI could be in hot water for exactly these reasons.
According to TechCrunch, a complaint has been filed with the Polish Office for Personal Data Protection alleging that ChatGPT violates a large number of rules found in the European Union’s General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). It suggests that OpenAI’s tool has been scooping up user data in all sorts of questionable ways.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
