Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: ChatGPT Alternatives ChatGPT on Slack ChatGPT on Mac ChatGPT Plus ChatGPT Detection ChatGPT 4 Bing Chat Google Bard Google Bard vs ChatGPT The best AI chatbots to try out: ChatGPT, Bard, and more ChatGPT vs Bing Chat Home Computing Guides GPTZero: how to use the ChatGPT detection tool By Alan Truly Close ChatGPT has opened the eyes of the public to both the wonders and the horrors of artificial intelligence in the few short months it has been available. Used carefully and with good intent, it’s a powerful tool that can inspire creativity, eliminate the blank page syndrome, and speed up productivity. Unfortunately, ChatGPT makes it far too easy to shortcut education , as the AI can be used to write papers and take exams. That’s where GPTZero comes in.
What is GPTZero? Is GPTZero free? Is GPTZero accurate? How does GPTZero work? How can I use GPTZero? Do we really need plagiarism checks? GPTZero is a ChatGPT detection tool built by Princeton University student Edward Tian, and you can use it now to find out if something you’re reading was generated with AI or not. Here’s how.
What is GPTZero? Image used with permission by copyright holder GPTZero is a web app and service designed to detect whether a body of text has been written by a human or by an artificial intelligence.
 Tian, a 22-year-old undergraduate studying computer science at Princeton University, and a former software engineering intern at Microsoft, is the developer of GPTZero.
GPT-4 Turbo is the biggest update since ChatGPT’s launch Apple may finally beef up Siri with AI smarts next year Bing Chat just beat a security check to stop hackers and spammers GPTZero was first announced via Tian’s tweet on January 2, 2023, as a tool to help detect AI plagiarism. Tian noted that the analysis was based on the research of Princeton Ph.D. candidate Sreejan Kumar and the work of Princeton’s Natural Language Processing Group.
the analysis is based on some ongoing research with and @sreejan_kumar and @princeton_nlp.
 hopefully we&#39;ll publish something empirical soon. but in the mean time this was a fun app to make :) &mdash; Edward Tian (@edward_the6) January 3, 2023 Is GPTZero free? GPTZero was designed for educators, but anyone can use it for free. It’s unlikely that this will always be the case. The terms of service mention that there could be fees for some services.
 There’s also a mention of a 30-day free trial for new users that register.
Image used with permission by copyright holder GPTZero is not an open-source project, and Tian would be facing high hosting fees if not for the help of Streamlit, a Python app framework with a free cloud service for Streamlit apps. While GPTZero’s traffic is a tiny fraction of what ChatGPT enjoys, even OpenAI decided to start charging to offset its costs.
Although Streamlit hosting is free, that usually limits bandwidth and resources on this shared platform. That would have restricted the usage of a popular app like GPTZero.
Streamlit is currently assisting Tian by increasing the application memory and hosting allowance of GPTZero. If it continues to grow at a rapid pace, that could change.
thanks @DataChaz and rest of the @streamlit team for generously upping gptzero’s hosting and memory :)) &mdash; Edward Tian (@edward_the6) January 4, 2023 Is GPTZero accurate? There have been claims that GPTZero can be fooled. Following a suggestion from Reddit user Smellz_Of_Elderberry , I asked ChatGPT to write a brief story about the book The Old Man and the Sea as if it were a high school student. GPTZero wasn’t fooled.
Image used with permission by copyright holder I tried again, altering the text with some misplaced punctuation, incorrect verb tense, and other small errors, but GPTZero still stated, “your text is likely to be written entirely by AI.” The key word here is “likely,” and the developer never promised that GPTZero was perfect. The accuracy of GPTZero is still being assessed, but anecdotally, it seems to be working well for most people.
If you use GPTZero, it’s important to bear in mind that errors are possible. When using GPTZero to detect AI or ChatGPT to help write a document, you still need to check the work for mistakes.
How does GPTZero work? Image used with permission by copyright holder GPTZero analyzes the randomness of text, known as perplexity, and the uniformity of this randomness within the text, which is called burstiness in statistics. An AI is very consistent in its perplexity and burstiness, while human writers vary those characteristics without any awareness.
The work isn’t done, and Tian notes that more tests will be added to improve the accuracy of AI text detection. In particular, implicit bias is an area being explored as another way to detect if the text is generated by an AI.
we&#39;re still studying implicit bias in LM generated text right now, so hopefully will be adding a few more tests and factors to improve the model &mdash; Edward Tian (@edward_the6) January 3, 2023 How can I use GPTZero? GPTZero is available on its website or via an application programming interface (API). To use the website, simply copy the text you’d like to check and paste it into the big box labeled Try it out.
Image used with permission by copyright holder It’s also possible to upload a PDF, Word document, or text file and click the Get Results button. You’ll also need to check the box signifying that you agree to the terms of service.
Do we really need plagiarism checks? Pushing far beyond the research lab that many text-generation AIs have been bound to, OpenAI released ChatGPT to the public in late November 2022.
 By January 2023, ChatGPT had over 100 million users, making it the fastest-growing public application yet.
That means any concerns about plagiarism are only going to increase as this AI assistance becomes available in all corners of life.
Microsoft is incorporating OpenAI’s technology into Bing search, and Google is testing its own version, known as Bard.
Image used with permission by copyright holder On a related note, AI image generators like Dall-E and Stable Diffusion are under scrutiny for potential copyright violations. All of these artificial intelligence services have been trained on the writing, photographs, and artwork found online that have been created by billions of humans.
In a way, AI is borrowing from human intelligence, not creating on its own. If I borrow from another human, I must give credit and possibly pay a licensing fee. With generative AI, it becomes more difficult to cite a source because each text or image is broken down into diffuse elements and then reassembled to create a new piece using thousands or millions of sources.
We either need to rethink how we feel about copyright and plagiarism or find tools that help identify AI-generated material and possibly develop a method of giving credit to the vast number of people that contribute to every AI-generated work.
Editors' Recommendations The world responds to the creator of ChatGPT being fired by his own company New ‘poisoning’ tool spells trouble for AI text-to-image tech OpenAI’s new tool can spot fake AI images, but there’s a catch Bing Chat’s ads are sending users to dangerous malware sites ChatGPT: the latest news, controversies, and tips you need to know Artificial Intelligence Computing ChatGPT has just regained the ability to browse the internet to help you find information. That should (hopefully) help you get more accurate, up-to-date data right when you need it, rather than solely relying on the artificial intelligence (AI) chatbot’s rather outdated training data.
As well as giving straight-up answers to your questions based on info found online, ChatGPT developer OpenAI revealed that the tool will provide a link to its sources so you can check the facts yourself. If it turns out that ChatGPT was wrong or misleading, well, that’s just another one for the chatbot’s long list of missteps.
Computing OpenAI is rolling out new functionalities for ChatGPT that will allow prompts to be executed with images and voice directives in addition to text.
The AI brand announced on Monday that it will be making these new features available over the next two weeks to ChatGPT Plus and Enterprise users. The voice feature is available in iOS and Android in an opt-in capacity, while the images feature is available on all ChatGPT platforms. OpenAI notes it plans to expand the availability of the images and voice features beyond paid users after the staggered rollout.
Computing Most American adults do not trust artificial intelligence (AI) tools like ChatGPT and worry about their potential misuse, a new survey has found. It suggests that the frequent scandals surrounding AI-created malware and disinformation are taking their toll and that the public might be increasingly receptive to ideas of AI regulation.
The survey from the MITRE Corporation and the Harris Poll claims that just 39% of 2,063 U.S. adults polled believe that today’s AI tech is “safe and secure,” a drop of 9% from when the two firms conducted their last survey in November 2022.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
