Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? How to use Bing Image Creator to generate AI images for free By Alan Truly Close Bing search made a giant leap forward in popularity and gained new conversational abilities when Microsoft added OpenAI’s GPT-4 technology with the new ChatGPT -based Bing Chat tab. Now. another mode of operation is available with Bing Image Creator, which turns your written description into a picture.
How to get access to Bing Image Creator How to get started When your prompt doesn’t work Bing Chat and Bing Image Creator combined Where to use Bing Image Creator pictures According to Microsoft’s blog post , Bing Image Creator uses a more advanced version of OpenAI’s Dall-E.
 That means it can produce high-quality, photorealistic digital pictures, drawings, and paintings for you based on the text prompts you supply.
How to get access to Bing Image Creator There are two ways to use Bing Image Creator. The simplest is to go to bing.com/create, which brings up Image Creator in preview right in your browser. This is available to everyone, and is a good place to try it out, even on mobile.
New ‘poisoning’ tool spells trouble for AI text-to-image tech OpenAI’s new tool can spot fake AI images, but there’s a catch Bing Chat’s ads are sending users to dangerous malware sites The more full-fledged version of it, however, can be found within Bing Chat Copilot in the new Edge web browser. Microsoft is taking a phased approach to the rollout, though, with only around 20% of users having access to it at this point. It’s also only available in Creative mode at the moment, though Balancedandr Precise modes are currently in the works.
If you can use Bing Chat, try different devices and Microsoft’s mobile apps. You could have it in one place and not the other. For example, I have Bing Image Creator available on my computer, but not on my phone.
How to get started Let’s start with what you can do with Bing Image Creator over at bing.com/create.
 Once you arrive at that page, you’ll see the Image Creator preview in a full-page view and a prompt box at the top.
It can be simple, or it can be incredibly in-depth and descriptive. Microsoft says you can start your Bing Chat prompt with “draw an image” or “create an image,” followed by a few words describing what you’d like to see.
Either way, in about 15 seconds or so, Image Creator will produce four images.
Click any of the large thumbnails to enlarge what you want to look at. The image is a very usable 1024 x 1024 pixels.
Image used with permission by copyright holder From the full-size image view, you can share a link, save it to a collection, or dDownload the picture to your computer. There’s also a Feedback button, and Microsoft would very likely appreciate any suggestions or observations about the quality or appropriateness of an image.
To start, you get 25 boosts, shown at the right of the prompt box, and each generation of four images uses one boost. You can still use Bing Image Creator without boosts, but it will take longer to generate pictures.
Other things you can do here include viewing recent prompt results or clicking on the “Explore ideas” tab, which will give you some example art and an FAQ on getting started.
If you are one of the lucky few who have access to Bing Image Creator through the Edge Copilot, however, you’ll be able to do much more. You won’t know one way or another until you give it a shot by asking Bing Chat to draw or create an image for you. If you don’t have access, Bing will tell you that it cannot draw images and will instead give you a detailed description of what you asked for.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Either way, make sure you click on the “Creative” mode from the three options, as Image Creator hasn’t yet come to Balanced or Precise modes just yet.
The powerful thing about using Image Creator in Bing Chat is being able to tweak or “edit” imagery. If you want to change the color of something or add/remove certain elements of an image produced by Bing, it’s as easy as just telling it to do so. It all flows naturally through chat, unlike having to give prompts in something like Stable Diffusion.
Introducing image creation in the new Bing and Edge. Now you can use Bing Chat to create images with just your words.
https://t.co/mCSrEADARl pic.twitter.com/SF1jmkF1aZ &mdash; Yusuf Mehdi (@yusuf_i_mehdi) March 21, 2023 As you can see in the example from the tweet, Bing Chat will know contextually how to augment the image based on previous prompts. This is also something you can’t currently do in the version available at bing.com.
When your prompt doesn’t work Bing Image Creator is based on Dall-E and has similar strengths and weaknesses. There’s a good chance it will produce an interesting, possibly beautiful image inspired by your prompt.
Other times, the result will be disappointing. Distorted features, fused limbs, and the wrong number of fingers will likely be seen in generated images.
Bing Image Creator makes beautiful images, but errors are likely.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Prompt engineering is possible, but the technology is moving so quickly that it might not be worth spending hours learning specific prompts. Simply asking for what you want and being more descriptive about the most important part of a scene is best.
Use photography terms if you want a photo-like image. Mentioning bokeh, sharp focus, and even a camera brand and lens type might help.
Use stylistic terms like impressionism, modern art, or cubism for paintings or drawings. You can mention artists’ names, but this is a gray area, morally. If you specify an artist, you are effectively replacing that human with a machine, potentially infringing on their copyright. The legality of image generation is still under scrutiny.
If you are plagued with generated finger problems, try adding a semicolon and asking for natural, proportional, undistorted fingers. The AI can usually understand your words , but lacks sufficient knowledge of reality. You can instruct it as you would an artist, but you still need to clarify points that would seem obvious to a person.
Bing Chat and Bing Image Creator combined The easiest way to create a good image prompt is to use Bing Chat. Ask it to write a prompt for an image or drawing, then copy and paste it into Bing Image Creator.
The result will often be better than you’d get with the shorter and simpler description you might come up with on your own. You can also use Bing Chat’s prompt as the basis of your own, more tailored version, changing details that don’t match your vision of the picture you want.
Bing Image Creator’s drawing of a female pirate using a laptop.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Bing Chat might give you prompts that are too long. The beginning of a prompt typically contains the most relevant information, so it might work even if the end is truncated.
In some cases, the generated prompt won’t work. I asked for a drawing of a pirate, and the Bing Chat offered a description that included a skull and crossbones. The classic pirate flag has this emblem known as a Jolly Roger.
When Bing Image Creator refused the prompt as inappropriate, I simply asked Bing Chat to rewrite it in a way that wouldn’t cause a content warning. This prompt worked.
Where to use Bing Image Creator pictures Like all AI image and text generators, Bing Image Creator is a powerful tool that can change how we research, learn, write, and illustrate literal and visual ideas. The tool isn’t the creator, and AI gets its inspiration from the work of human minds.
When using Bing Image Creator, remember the people behind the wonder. Photographers and artists helped make this possible, and it’s critical that we continue to support that creative spirit, even if you use AI image generators.
Bing Image Creator full-screen user interface.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Just as you might use photos as reference material and art for inspiration, Bing Image Creator results can help you break through a challenging creative barrier. The AI will give you something interesting, even if it’s not usable. That starting point might be enough to begin your own creation.
For editorial content, Bing Image Creator can generate images that illustrate a conceptual idea that can’t be photographed or juxtapose subjects that usually aren’t found together.
The best way to learn more about Bing Image Creator is to use it and experiment.
Editors' Recommendations Windows 11 will soon harness your GPU for generative AI Apple may finally beef up Siri with AI smarts next year Bing Chat just beat a security check to stop hackers and spammers Microsoft Bing and Edge are getting a big DALL-E 3 upgrade Microsoft’s Copilot AI will have an ‘energy,’ apparently Microsoft Computing Most American adults do not trust artificial intelligence (AI) tools like ChatGPT and worry about their potential misuse, a new survey has found. It suggests that the frequent scandals surrounding AI-created malware and disinformation are taking their toll and that the public might be increasingly receptive to ideas of AI regulation.
The survey from the MITRE Corporation and the Harris Poll claims that just 39% of 2,063 U.S. adults polled believe that today’s AI tech is “safe and secure,” a drop of 9% from when the two firms conducted their last survey in November 2022.
Computing People were in awe when ChatGPT came out, impressed by its natural language abilities as an AI chatbot. But when the highly anticipated GPT-4 large language model came out, it blew the lid off what we thought was possible with AI, with some calling it the early glimpses of AGI (artificial general intelligence).
The creator of the model, OpenAI, calls it the company's "most advanced system, producing safer and more useful responses." Here's everything you need to know about it, including how to use it and what it can do.
What is GPT-4? GPT-4 is a new language model created by OpenAI that can generate text that is similar to human speech. It advances the technology used by ChatGPT, which is currently based on GPT-3.5. GPT is the acronym for Generative Pre-trained Transformer, a deep learning technology that uses artificial neural networks to write like a human.
Computing According to a recent article posted by Microsoft Travel on microsoft.com, attractions worth checking out on a visit to the Canadian capital of Ottawa include the National War Memorial, Parliament Hill, Fairmont Château Laurier, Ottawa Food Bank ... hang on, Ottawa Food Bank? Spotted in recent days by Canada-based tech writer Paris Marx, the article puts Ottawa Food Bank at number 3 in a list of 15 must-see places in the city. And as if that wasn't bad enough, the accompanying description even suggests visiting it “on an empty stomach.” Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
