Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: ChatGPT Alternatives ChatGPT on Slack ChatGPT on Mac ChatGPT Plus ChatGPT Detection ChatGPT 4 Bing Chat Google Bard Google Bard vs ChatGPT The best AI chatbots to try out: ChatGPT, Bard, and more ChatGPT vs Bing Chat Home Computing Guides Bing Chat: how to use Microsoft’s own version of ChatGPT By Alan Truly Close Bing Chat is Microsoft’s answer to ChatGPT — in fact, it’s based on the same technology that makes OpenAI’s chatbot run.
How to get Bing Chat How to use Bing Chat on your phone How does it work? Bing Image Creator How much does it cost? ‘Unhinged’ Bing Chat responses Is Bing Chat the same as ChatGPT? Other AI options But Microsoft has a very different approach, integrating generative AI directly into its Edge web browser and Bing search engine. It’s even coming to the entire suite of Office apps in the future. Here’s how to sign up and use Bing Chat today.
How to get Bing Chat Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Bing Chat is available to the public for free, but requires downloading the new version of Microsoft Edge. Just go to bing.com/new and click on “Download Microsoft Edge,” which will then ask you to choose the platform you’re on. This will then install the new browser, just like with any other application.
GPT-4 Turbo is the biggest update since ChatGPT’s launch Apple may finally beef up Siri with AI smarts next year Bing Chat just beat a security check to stop hackers and spammers Once you have the new version of Microsoft Edge, there are two simple ways to access Bing Chat. In the Edge browser, just head over to bing.com and click on the “chat” tab. You can also access Bing Chat just by hovering over the “Discover” icon in the top-right of the sidebar, known as “Edge Copilot.” This mode aligns with the other Copilot features coming to the rest of the Microsoft 365 applications , such as Word, PowerPoint, and more.
The company also recently integrated Bing Chat into the search bar in Windows 11 , which opens a chat window in Microsoft Edge directly from your desktop.
How to use Bing Chat on your phone Photo by Alan Truly You can also use Bing Chat on your smartphone via Edge and the Bing app.
 This is also subject to the rollout process so it isn’t necessarily faster. Instead, consider this another way to access Bing Chat. When you use it from a mobile device, you can use your voice to ask Bing Chat questions and receive spoken responses. While you need to tap the microphone button before you speak, it’s almost like having Bing Chat in a smart speaker.
YouTube channel RustyBrick Barry Schwartz Search Engine Roundtable posted a video demonstrating how it works.
How does it work? Image used with permission by copyright holder Bing Chat works just like ChatGPT. You can ask it anything, and using an LLM (large language model), it will understand and respond in natural human language.
But Microsoft has also been slowly rolling out Bing Chat features, and most of them are available to use now. In particular, the Edge Copilot feature provides more suggestions and refinements to the Bing Chat experience.
The chat tab focuses on more conversational language, which provides lots of suggestions on the types of questions you can ask. These include links to learn more, suggested follow-up questions, and functions much more like a traditional search engine.
In addition to chat, the sidebar also includes Compose and Insights.
 The Compose tab allows you to generate text in various tones and formats. You can choose between five different tones, formats, and lengths, which augments the types of output Bing Chat will provide. For example, you can generate a professional email and paste it into your email client, or you can generate a short blog post in a humorous tone. If you don’t like the response, you can quickly generate a new one as well.
The Insights tab pulls context for the website you’re currently on. If you’re shopping, for example, it can pull reviews of the product you’re looking at, as well as comparisons and news stories. In addition, if you’re already on a review, the Insight feature can pull in alternatives.
Bing Image Creator Image used with permission by copyright holder Microsoft has announced Bing Image Creator , which is a new text-to-image feature that can be found on both Bing and in Edge. The version found at bing.com/create functions as a stand-alone service, but Microsoft is slowly rolling out access that’s built right into Bing Chat itself.
Once your account has been granted access, you’ll be able to create AI-generated images from text right within the chat window found in the Edge Copilot. Just click on the Bing logo and make sure you’re in “creative” mode, and you’re good to go. Once you have access, you’ll also be able to generate images in full screen right in the normal Bing Chat window too.
Image Creator in Bing Chat allows you to ask Bing to not only create images but also tweak them as you refine your prompts. As Bing Chat already does, the conversation flows naturally, taking previous prompts and chat history into consideration.
How much does it cost? So far, there has been no mention of charging for Bing’s new AI features. Microsoft clarified that ads are part of the experience from the start and that it doesn’t have plans to charge a fee as of yet.
But from what we can tell, there are still limits on conversations. As of now, the daily limit has been increased to 150 chats per day and 15 chats per session. Once you hit 15 chats in a session, Bing Chat will ask you to move on to a new topic. ChatGPT does not have this limit.
Meanwhile, OpenAI recently launched its subscription-based ChatGPT Plus to help offset the high costs of keeping up with the avalanche of new users. If Microsoft’s claim of being even better than ChatGPT proves to be true, it will be remarkable.
‘Unhinged’ Bing Chat responses Bing Chat is an impressive tool, but it isn’t perfect. Shortly after launch, users started posting unhinged responses from the AI , and in our own testing, the chat claimed that it wanted to be human.
Microsoft responded to this by vastly reducing the conversation limit within Bing Chat.
 Initially, you could only ask five questions per session and a total of 50 questions per day, but Microsoft has been raising the turn limit since and now offers up to 15 questions per session (150 per day).
In addition, Bing Chat now has a switch that allows you to toggle between precise, fact-driven responses and more creative responses.
Is Bing Chat the same as ChatGPT? Microsoft describes the new Bing chat as “a new, next-generation OpenAI large language model” that’s more advanced than ChatGPT. Since the goal is to integrate this with Bing search, there are different considerations.
For example, Bing’s ChatGPT alternative is expected to be much faster than ChatGPT while stepping beyond the capabilities of GPT-3.5 in some ways. Known as the Prometheus model, Microsoft brings current news to its chat for up-to-date results that are still safe for Bing’s large user base. There has been speculation that Bing Chat uses GPT-4, and Microsoft confirmed that’s the case after OpenAI announced the launch of ChatGPT-4.
Microsoft had been testing the AI for over a year before it was released, and some Microsoft community posts point to the fact that Bing Chat showed this behavior well before it was released.
Other AI options Google There are dozens of AI writing tools on the market now, but the best seem to rely on OpenAI’s ChatGPT or GPT-3. Google didn’t fall asleep at the wheel and is rolling out its Bard AI to Google Search soon.
 That means the battle for the most accurate, relevant, and current AI-powered search engine is yet to be determined.
We recently reported on Jasper AI, an OpenAI partner that provides a ChatGPT-like solution, with no waitlist, that’s customized for business use.
Regardless of which company comes out on top, it’s clear that AI-powered search is the future.
 Hopefully, we’ll be able to see Google’s competitor in action soon.
Editors' Recommendations OpenAI just dropped its CEO as it plans its second act New ‘poisoning’ tool spells trouble for AI text-to-image tech OpenAI’s new tool can spot fake AI images, but there’s a catch Bing Chat’s ads are sending users to dangerous malware sites ChatGPT: the latest news, controversies, and tips you need to know Artificial Intelligence Microsoft Computing ChatGPT has just regained the ability to browse the internet to help you find information. That should (hopefully) help you get more accurate, up-to-date data right when you need it, rather than solely relying on the artificial intelligence (AI) chatbot’s rather outdated training data.
As well as giving straight-up answers to your questions based on info found online, ChatGPT developer OpenAI revealed that the tool will provide a link to its sources so you can check the facts yourself. If it turns out that ChatGPT was wrong or misleading, well, that’s just another one for the chatbot’s long list of missteps.
Computing OpenAI is rolling out new functionalities for ChatGPT that will allow prompts to be executed with images and voice directives in addition to text.
The AI brand announced on Monday that it will be making these new features available over the next two weeks to ChatGPT Plus and Enterprise users. The voice feature is available in iOS and Android in an opt-in capacity, while the images feature is available on all ChatGPT platforms. OpenAI notes it plans to expand the availability of the images and voice features beyond paid users after the staggered rollout.
Computing Microsoft Copilot is coming to Bing and Edge Microsoft You'll soon be hearing more about Microsoft Copilot and Bing Image Creator as these innovative technologies come to Microsoft Edge and Bing. The news of their arrival was delivered at Microsoft's Surface Event, along with several more AI and hardware announcements.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
