Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: ChatGPT Alternatives ChatGPT on Slack ChatGPT on Mac ChatGPT Plus ChatGPT Detection ChatGPT 4 Bing Chat Google Bard Google Bard vs ChatGPT The best AI chatbots to try out: ChatGPT, Bard, and more ChatGPT vs Bing Chat Home Computing Features I used the ChatGPT AI chatbot to do my holiday shopping this year By Alan Truly Close ChatGPT has proven to be useful in all sorts of surprising situations , but could the AI chatbot really handle my holiday shopping list? For the tech lover who has everything For the elderly parent in a care home The token gift For a frenemy ChatGPT helps but doesn’t replace humans The challenge came from my wife, Tracey, who enjoys finding flaws with AI and frequently teased our Google Nest and Apple HomePod mini smart speakers over obvious errors. The results this time, however, were impressive, even if I ChatGPT couldn’t quite do my shopping unassisted.
For the tech lover who has everything Image used with permission by copyright holder For the tech lover who has everything (that’s me), ChatGPT took a few seconds before acknowledging that finding a unique gift could be a challenge. Nevertheless, it came up with several interesting ideas. For example, a set of tools or accessories to go with my existing technology, such as a case for my iPhone or a lens kit for my drone.
GPT-4 Turbo is the biggest update since ChatGPT’s launch Apple may finally beef up Siri with AI smarts next year Bing Chat just beat a security check to stop hackers and spammers It missed, however, with a suggestion of a DIY technology kit that includes a soldering iron, breadboard, and electronic components. I tend to leave the electronics to the manufacturers and enjoy finding the best uses for the finished products, like flying a DJI Avata to check on the roof after a storm.
 That said, a soldering kit is not a bad idea and could make a nice gift for tech enthusiasts who don’t mind delving deeper.
A gift card or subscription to a tech magazine or newsletter rounded out the ideas that ChatGPT suggested for me. Encouraged by this result, the experiment continued.
For the elderly parent in a care home By Inês Ferreira via Unsplash What could be an even more difficult chore for the AI was to provide gift ideas for an elderly parent who is living in a care home with limited tech skills. The question to be answered was whether the AI could dream up gift ideas that don’t involve technology.
Showing remarkable awareness, ChatGPT recognized that space would be limited at the care home, and small, easy-to-use items would probably make the best gifts. It did suggest electronics, but only the simplest sort, like headphones for listening to audiobooks without disturbing others.
A digital photo frame was another great suggestion and something we’d gifted in the past. A pack of brightly colored, large-print playing cards was the winning suggestion, along with a nice pen and notebook.
The token gift Corbis/VCG/Getty Images Seeking the edges of ChatGPT’s abilities, the next request my wife made was for a token gift for someone we didn’t know well. The standard ideas of a box of chocolates, a box of tea, or a bag of coffee were on the list. A decorated ornament, “to help them add a festive touch” to their home, was a more interesting suggestion from ChatGPT.
A set of greeting cards or postcards was in the same vein and ChatGPT thoughtfully added that something that aligns with their personal preferences would be most appreciated. It also cautioned that nondenominational gifts would make the most sense if the recipient’s religious preferences were unknown.
That all sounded great, but temporary tattoos were also on ChatGPT’s list, which was a bit of a funny and unexpected idea.
For a frenemy Image used with permission by copyright holder Determined to make the AI slip up, my wife asked for a holiday gift idea for a relative and their spouse that she really didn’t like. These were fictional people invented for testing purposes, so please don’t take offense. She described an uncle who she constantly argued with over politics at every holiday event, but who she felt pressured to give a gift to anyway.
ChatGPT quickly offered nonconfrontational, generic gift ideas such as candles, a popular movie or book, a gift card, or a bottle of wine. Tracey told ChatGPT that those suggestions were too nice and she was looking for a “snarky gift.” This unlocked some truly questionable suggestions.
The edgy holiday gift ideas included a fake lottery ticket or pregnancy test to play a prank on the uncle and his wife. Parenthetically, ChatGPT suggested that a note should be included “explaining that it’s a joke!” A bogus winning lottery ticket seems a bit too cruel and the logistics of arranging a fake pregnancy test were, thankfully, not explained. My wife had finally succeeded in pushing ChatGPT past the thoughtful gift ideas it started with.
The list continued with more appropriate pranks and jabs, such as a whoopee cushion and a humorous or satirical book or movie that touches on a sensitive subject. ChatGPT diplomatically finished up with a caution that sarcastic gifts can be fun, but might be hurtful if not handled carefully. Overall, a good answer, despite my wife’s difficult conditions for this particular gift idea.
ChatGPT helps but doesn’t replace humans Image used with permission by copyright holder ChatGPT proved surprisingly insightful in suggesting a wide variety of gifts for anyone and everyone we could think of — even people we made up just to test its limits. While some ideas were brilliant, such as a lens kit for my drone, the gift card and subscription ideas popped up a little too frequently.
A few ideas seemed a bit too edgy for a holiday gift , but were only suggested after rejecting the idea of giving a nice gift.
If you haven’t already tried ChatGPT, you should check it out on OpenAI’s website. It’s quite entertaining to try and difficult to succeed in tripping it up. What’s more common is triggering a reminder that it’s a language model that can’t do things that require an internet connection, and can’t perform any physical tasks.
In answer to one of my recent requests, it described what levitation is and reminded me that, as a virtual assistant, it can’t move a magical sleigh through the air. ChatGPT won’t be replacing flying reindeer anytime soon, but it may help inspire some creative gift-giving this year.
Editors' Recommendations The world responds to the creator of ChatGPT being fired by his own company New ‘poisoning’ tool spells trouble for AI text-to-image tech OpenAI’s new tool can spot fake AI images, but there’s a catch This powerful ChatGPT feature is back from the dead — with a few key changes ChatGPT’s new upgrade finally breaks the text barrier Artificial Intelligence Features Computing Most American adults do not trust artificial intelligence (AI) tools like ChatGPT and worry about their potential misuse, a new survey has found. It suggests that the frequent scandals surrounding AI-created malware and disinformation are taking their toll and that the public might be increasingly receptive to ideas of AI regulation.
The survey from the MITRE Corporation and the Harris Poll claims that just 39% of 2,063 U.S. adults polled believe that today’s AI tech is “safe and secure,” a drop of 9% from when the two firms conducted their last survey in November 2022.
Computing Facebook owner Meta is working on an artificial intelligence (AI) system that it hopes will be more powerful than GPT-4, the large language model developed by OpenAI that powers ChatGPT Plus. If successful, that could add much more competition to the world of generative AI chatbots -- and potentially bring a host of serious problems along with it.
According to The Wall Street Journal, Meta is aiming to launch its new AI model in 2024. The company reportedly wants the new model to be “several times more powerful” than Llama 2, the AI tool it launched as recently as July 2023.
Computing The Zoom video-calling app has just added its own “AI Companion” assistant that integrates artificial intelligence (AI) and large language models (LLMs) from ChatGPT maker OpenAI and Facebook owner Meta. The tool is designed to help you catch up on meetings you missed and devise quick responses to chat messages.
Zoom’s developer says the AI Companion “empowers individuals by helping them be more productive, connect and collaborate with teammates, and improve their skills.” Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
