Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: ChatGPT Alternatives ChatGPT on Slack ChatGPT on Mac ChatGPT Plus ChatGPT Detection ChatGPT 4 Bing Chat Google Bard Google Bard vs ChatGPT The best AI chatbots to try out: ChatGPT, Bard, and more ChatGPT vs Bing Chat Home Computing Guides Is ChatGPT safe? Here are the risks to consider before using it By Alan Truly Close There’s no doubt that ChatGPT is a revolutionary advance in the usefulness and potential for any computer or smartphone connected to the internet, but is it safe to use? Privacy and financial leaks OpenAI’s privacy policy ChatGPT as a hacking tool ChatGPT and job safety ChatGPT scams Slow and steady wins the race There are some big concerns about the overall evolution of generative AI, with some tech leaders even calling for a pause in development.
 But for the individual, safety is a relative term, particularly when it comes to tools. So, here’s everything to consider before you jump in.
Privacy and financial leaks In at least one instance, chat history between users was mixed up. On March 20, 2023, ChatGPT creator OpenAI discovered a problem, and ChatGPT was down for several hours.
 Around that time, a few ChatGPT users saw the conversation history of other people instead of their own. Possibly more concerning was the news that payment-related information from ChatGPT-Plus subscribers might have leaked as well.
GPT-4 Turbo is the biggest update since ChatGPT’s launch OpenAI’s new tool can spot fake AI images, but there’s a catch ChatGPT: the latest news, controversies, and tips you need to know OpenAI published a report on the incident and corrected the bug that caused the problem. That doesn’t mean new issues won’t arise in the future. With any online service, there is a risk of accidental leaks like this and cybersecurity breaches from the growing army of hackers.
OpenAI’s privacy policy According to OpenAI’s privacy policy, your contact details, transaction history, network activity, content, location, and login credentials might be shared with affiliates, vendors and service providers, law enforcement, and parties involved in transactions.
In some cases, this is unavoidable. OpenAI might use third-party payment processors, so this is to be expected. The company must comply with any legal obligations, and some of this data might be used for research.
Even when it’s easy to justify collecting data, the potential for misuse and leaks is a valid safety concern. OpenAI’s ChatGPT FAQ suggests you don’t share sensitive information and warns that prompts can’t be deleted.
ChatGPT as a hacking tool Shutterstock On the subject of cybersecurity, some experts are concerned about ChatGPT’s potential use as a hacking tool.
 It’s clear that the advanced chatbot can help anyone write a very official-sounding document, and ChatGPT could be called upon to construct a convincing email phishing scam.
The AI is also a good teacher, making it easy to learn new skills with ChatGPT, possibly even dangerous programming skills and information about network infrastructure. The combination of ChatGPT and dark web forums could lead to numerous and novel attacks to challenge the already stretched resources of cybersecurity researchers.
For example, someone on Twitter posted an example of asking GPT-4 to write instructions for how to hack a computer, and it provided some terrifying detail.
Well, that was fast… I just helped create the first jailbreak for ChatGPT-4 that gets around the content filters every time credit to @vaibhavk97 for the idea, I just generalized it to make it work on ChatGPT here&#39;s GPT-4 writing instructions on how to hack someone&#39;s computer pic.twitter.com/EC2ce4HRBH &mdash; Alex (@alexalbert__) March 16, 2023 ChatGPT can write code based on plain English requests, allowing anyone to generate a program. With the new ChatGPT plug-ins feature , the AI can even run self-generated code.
OpenAI sandboxed this capability to prevent dangerous uses, but we’ve already seen an example of OpenAI’s GPT-3 API being hacked.
 OpenAI must be very careful with security as the plug-in feature and internet access is rolled out to more people.
ChatGPT and job safety ChatGPT has been worrying teachers since it makes plagiarism incredibly easy. OpenAI trained its chatbot on the kinds of information that students need to know to write essays as proof that they’ve learned a subject.
While that’s not a safety concern, teachers also need to be aware that ChatGPT can educate students on a broad range of topics, providing one-on-one attention and instant answers to questions. In the future, AI might be called upon to help teach students in overcrowded classrooms or to assist with tutoring.
For authors, ChatGPT could seem threatening. In a matter of seconds, it can generate thousands of words. The same task requires hours of work for a person, even a professional writer.
Image used with permission by copyright holder At the moment, there are still enough errors to make it more useful as a research or writing tool than a replacement for authors.
If accuracy issues are resolved , AI could begin taking jobs.
ChatGPT has a vast number of uses , and more are being discovered every day. Beyond communication and learning, ChatGPT can even analyze a photo of a hand-drawn app and write a program to create it, as shown in OpenAI’s demonstration of the new capabilities of GPT-4.
ChatGPT scams It isn’t OpenAI’s fault, but a side effect of any exciting new technology is a surge in scams that promise greater access or new features. Since access to ChatGPT is still limited and sometimes slow , there’s a strong demand for more ChatGPT goodness.
Each new update brings expanded capabilities, some of which require a membership and have limited availability.
ChatGPT fervor provides fertile ground for scams.
 Offers of free, unlimited access at the fastest speed and with the best new features are hard to pass up.
Unfortunately, the old saying still holds — if it sounds too good to be true, it probably is. Be wary of ChatGPT offers that come via email or social media. It’s best to check trusted media outlets for news or go directly to OpenAI to confirm any invitations or deals that sound iffy.
ChatGPT is both powerful and terrifying. As one of the first examples of a publicly available AI with good language skills, its challenges and successes should serve as a wake-up call for everyone. It’s important to use caution with new AI technology. It’s too easy to get caught up in the excitement and forget that you’re dealing with an online service that can be hacked or misused.
Slow and steady wins the race OpenAI is aware of the need to proceed more slowly as ChatGPT gains more skills and internet access. Moving too quickly could lead to backlash and potential regulatory burdens.
Editors' Recommendations The world responds to the creator of ChatGPT being fired by his own company Apple may finally beef up Siri with AI smarts next year Bing Chat just beat a security check to stop hackers and spammers This powerful ChatGPT feature is back from the dead — with a few key changes ChatGPT’s new upgrade finally breaks the text barrier Artificial Intelligence Computing Most American adults do not trust artificial intelligence (AI) tools like ChatGPT and worry about their potential misuse, a new survey has found. It suggests that the frequent scandals surrounding AI-created malware and disinformation are taking their toll and that the public might be increasingly receptive to ideas of AI regulation.
The survey from the MITRE Corporation and the Harris Poll claims that just 39% of 2,063 U.S. adults polled believe that today’s AI tech is “safe and secure,” a drop of 9% from when the two firms conducted their last survey in November 2022.
Computing Facebook owner Meta is working on an artificial intelligence (AI) system that it hopes will be more powerful than GPT-4, the large language model developed by OpenAI that powers ChatGPT Plus. If successful, that could add much more competition to the world of generative AI chatbots -- and potentially bring a host of serious problems along with it.
According to The Wall Street Journal, Meta is aiming to launch its new AI model in 2024. The company reportedly wants the new model to be “several times more powerful” than Llama 2, the AI tool it launched as recently as July 2023.
Computing People were in awe when ChatGPT came out, impressed by its natural language abilities as an AI chatbot. But when the highly anticipated GPT-4 large language model came out, it blew the lid off what we thought was possible with AI, with some calling it the early glimpses of AGI (artificial general intelligence).
The creator of the model, OpenAI, calls it the company's "most advanced system, producing safer and more useful responses." Here's everything you need to know about it, including how to use it and what it can do.
What is GPT-4? GPT-4 is a new language model created by OpenAI that can generate text that is similar to human speech. It advances the technology used by ChatGPT, which is currently based on GPT-3.5. GPT is the acronym for Generative Pre-trained Transformer, a deep learning technology that uses artificial neural networks to write like a human.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
