Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: ChatGPT Alternatives ChatGPT on Slack ChatGPT on Mac ChatGPT Plus ChatGPT Detection ChatGPT 4 Bing Chat Google Bard Google Bard vs ChatGPT The best AI chatbots to try out: ChatGPT, Bard, and more ChatGPT vs Bing Chat Home Computing Guides MacGPT: how to use ChatGPT on your Mac By Fionna Agomuoh Close Apple might not officially be in the AI space, but a developer has created a legitimate way to bring ChatGPT to macOS and make the chatbot accessible from your menu bar.
How to download MacGPT How to sign in or register for MacGPT What to expect when using MacGPT for the first time MacGPT special features The aptly named MacGPT is an application developed by Jordi Bruin that allows you to install ChatGPT as a remote browser on your Mac desktop. The application has been available since the 2022 holiday season and has garnered over 370 ratings, many of which are five stars. MacGPT is currently free, however, Bruin accepts donations. Once out of beta, he will make MacGPT available at the App Store, where it will sell for $5.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Here’s what you need to know if you’re interested in trying out MacGPT.
How to download MacGPT You can access the MacGPT download on Bruin’s Gumroad page.
 If you’d like to leave a donation, you can input your fair price. Select I want this and it will take you to the download page. Enter your email address and then select G et to begin the download. You will receive a receipt in your email detailing that you purchased the product, regardless of if you donated or not. The app is compatible with macOS Monterey and macOS Ventura.
How to sign in or register for MacGPT Keep in mind that MacGPT is just ChatGPT in a Mac ecosystem. When opening the app, it closely resembles Apple’s Safari browser, but everything looks and feels very much like ChatGPT. The browser will open a ChatGPT welcome window giving you the option to either log in or sign up for ChatGPT.
Image used with permission by copyright holder If you already have an OpenAI account, or you subscribe to ChatGPT Plus , you can use your credentials to quickly access ChatGPT. If you use a Google or Microsoft account as your login, you can also use that to finish setup. Note that if you have two-factor authentication enabled on one of these sign-in methods, you’ll need to authenticate with a security token or app. If you don’t have an account, you can quickly register through the app on-screen.
What to expect when using MacGPT for the first time Once logged in, you will have an experience similar to logging into ChatGPT on a standard browser. There are notifications detailing that ChatGPT is a free research preview and that some of the information generated might be incorrect, misleading, offensive, or biased.
Image used with permission by copyright holder There is a notification about how ChatGPT collects data and one encouraging feedback. When you get to the chatbot, it is identical to the online generator, which showcases examples, capabilities, and limitations. If you already have an account, you should be able to see your history of prior queries in the upper-left. Inputting a new prompt will generate your desired response and update your history, which you’ll then be able to see if you log into the original ChatGPT on a separate browser.
MacGPT special features MacGPT does have some features that are unique to the application. You can set a keyboard shortcut for the app so that it opens without the use of a mouse. You can access this feature through the MacGPT preferences, which are located in the upper-right corner of the screen.
Image used with permission by copyright holder You can also select the A lways on top option to have the MacGPT icon show up on the Mac screen header as a drop-down application.
Overall, though, MacGPT is basically a shortcut for the browser-based version of ChatGPT. It has the advantage of showing an icon on your desktop, but there were a few oddities I noticed when using the app: You can purchase ChatGPT Plus through MacGPT since everything is identical to the web-based chatbot. At first, I got an error message when attempting to access the link. This could indicate that MacGPT suffers from the same throttling issues as the free ChatGPT. However, attempting again a few minutes later took me to the checkout page.
If you already have ChatGPT Plus, you can input your confirmation code into the Plus section located in the top-right corner of the browser.
MacGPT features a Dark mode similar to the web-based ChatGPT.
The only thing that appears nonfunctional on the MacGPT interface is the Updates & FAQ link.
When opening MacGPT, you might occasionally get a CAPTCHA notification asking you to confirm that you’re human.
Other than that, MacGPT is a simple way to access ChatGPT without going through your browser and not much more. Thankfully, there are some other interesting ways OpenAI’s tech is being implemented on other platforms. For example, Snapchat recently announced its My AI tool inside the app, and Slack integrated a ChatGPT bot into its application as well.
Editors' Recommendations The world responds to the creator of ChatGPT being fired by his own company 7 trackpad gestures for Mac that everyone should know OpenAI’s new tool can spot fake AI images, but there’s a catch Bing Chat just beat a security check to stop hackers and spammers ChatGPT: the latest news, controversies, and tips you need to know Apple Artificial Intelligence Mac Software Computing ChatGPT has just regained the ability to browse the internet to help you find information. That should (hopefully) help you get more accurate, up-to-date data right when you need it, rather than solely relying on the artificial intelligence (AI) chatbot’s rather outdated training data.
As well as giving straight-up answers to your questions based on info found online, ChatGPT developer OpenAI revealed that the tool will provide a link to its sources so you can check the facts yourself. If it turns out that ChatGPT was wrong or misleading, well, that’s just another one for the chatbot’s long list of missteps.
Computing OpenAI is rolling out new functionalities for ChatGPT that will allow prompts to be executed with images and voice directives in addition to text.
The AI brand announced on Monday that it will be making these new features available over the next two weeks to ChatGPT Plus and Enterprise users. The voice feature is available in iOS and Android in an opt-in capacity, while the images feature is available on all ChatGPT platforms. OpenAI notes it plans to expand the availability of the images and voice features beyond paid users after the staggered rollout.
Computing Most American adults do not trust artificial intelligence (AI) tools like ChatGPT and worry about their potential misuse, a new survey has found. It suggests that the frequent scandals surrounding AI-created malware and disinformation are taking their toll and that the public might be increasingly receptive to ideas of AI regulation.
The survey from the MITRE Corporation and the Harris Poll claims that just 39% of 2,063 U.S. adults polled believe that today’s AI tech is “safe and secure,” a drop of 9% from when the two firms conducted their last survey in November 2022.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
