Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Features How Microsoft 365 Copilot unleashes ChatGPT from its restraints By Luke Larsen Close Thanks to ChatGPT , natural language AI has taken the world by storm. But so far, it’s felt boxed in. With these chatbots, everything happens in one window, with one search bar to type into.
Bringing natural language into apps Making AI accessible We’ve always known these large language models could do far more, though, and it was only a matter of time until that potential was unlocked.
Microsoft has just announced Copilot , its own integration of ChatGPT into all its Microsoft 365 apps, including Word, PowerPoint, Outlook, Teams, and more. And finally, we’re seeing the way generative AI is going to be used more commonly in the future — and it’s not necessarily as a straightforward chatbot.
Bringing natural language into apps Image used with permission by copyright holder Ever since the launch of the ChatGPT API, I’ve been excited to see how developers would take the power of a large language model and integrate it into actual apps that people use. After all, as fun and exciting as ChatGPT or Bing Chat are, they only produce text — and you’re left copying and pasting from there.
GPT-4 Turbo is the biggest update since ChatGPT’s launch ChatGPT’s new upgrade finally breaks the text barrier ChatGPT is violating your privacy, says major GDPR complaint But Microsoft 365 Copilot shows how powerful and useful generative AI can be. As seen in the demos, Copilot has been merged directly into all these apps and can be used for all sorts of interesting things. In PowerPoint, it can generate entire slideshows based on just a prompt. As the Microsoft representative mentioned, Copilot is probably going to make a much fancier version of your kid’s graduation slideshow than you ever would. The same is true in a more complicated application like Excel, where Copilot can easily pull info from an unstructured data set and present it in a chart for you.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Of course, Copilot gives lots of options for tweaking things or choosing from different styles — in the same way that ChatGPT has always been good at. You can even ask Copilot to create a slideshow in the style of a different project you’ve made, or to use information from a different application like Word. It’s pretty neat, and it’s all integrated into Microsoft Graph, meaning your business profile and info from across the ecosystem is automatically integrated to give you contextual results.
It’s a similar story with Outlook, where Copilot can draft up emails for you, or in Word, where it can create a document based on some rough notes. It’s not exactly groundbreaking, but it is useful and convenient. And the examples that seem the most practical did more than offer just a blank search box, which looks like it’ll be key to making AI more accessible.
Making AI accessible Image used with permission by copyright holder In many of these examples, Copilot isn’t just offering you a ChatGPT input in the sidebar. It’s more than that, And that means relying more on suggested prompts, simpler ways of interacting, and even presets. When Word generates some text, it’s going to ask you what you think of it, prompting you to tweak things further. When you ask PowerPoint to make a slideshow for you, it offers you different style options that will augment the output. It’s not unlike what Microsoft already added to Bing Chat.
And this is all very, very good, especially when they’re tailor-made for the type of task you’re employing AI for. I’m not saying chatbots are going to go away — I think there will always be a space for raw, unfiltered exploration of what AI can do. And the true creative power of generative AI will always hinge on the ability to say anything in whatever words you choose.
But as AI shows up in more mainstream and accessible applications, developers need to find ways to guide the conversation, and that’s exactly what Copilot has started to do. It’s really exciting to imagine how developers will take this technology and run with it. It should be enough to make even the most critical AI naysayers pay attention.
Editors' Recommendations The world responds to the creator of ChatGPT being fired by his own company This powerful ChatGPT feature is back from the dead — with a few key changes Zoom adds ChatGPT to help you catch up on missed calls ChatGPT may soon moderate illegal content on sites like Facebook Newegg wants you to trust ChatGPT for product reviews Features Computing It's common knowledge -- Macs are less prone to malware than their Windows counterparts. That still holds true today, but the rise of ChatGPT and other AI tools is challenging the status quo, with even the FBI warning of its far-reaching implications for cybersecurity.
That may be why software developer Macpaw launched its own cybersecurity division -- dubbed Moonlock -- specifically to fight Mac malware. We spoke to Oleg Stukalenko, Lead Product Manager at Moonlock, to find out whether Mac malware is on the rise, and if ChatGPT could give hackers a massive advantage over everyday users.
State-sponsored attacks Computing Apple CEO Tim Cook has just revealed that the company has been working on generative artificial intelligence (AI) tools “for years.” The surprise announcement suggests that Apple could launch a ChatGPT rival -- supposedly dubbed “Apple GPT” -- sooner than anyone expected.
The announcement was made in an interview with Reuters following Apple’s third-quarter earnings report. Cook explained that higher research and development (R&D) spending at the company had been driven in part by an increased focus on generative AI.
Computing There has been much chatter recently about Apple working on its own ChatGPT rival called Apple GPT. Well, we’ve just had some bad news: the artificial intelligence (AI) chatbot is apparently years away from release.
Apple analyst Ming-Chi Kuo put a dampener on expectations in a recent blog post, where he outlined his expectations for what could positively or negatively affect Apple stock prices in the coming months. Apple GPT is so far away from readiness, Kuo believes, that it simply won’t impact Apple stock prices any time soon.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
