Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: ChatGPT Alternatives ChatGPT on Slack ChatGPT on Mac ChatGPT Plus ChatGPT Detection ChatGPT 4 Bing Chat Google Bard Google Bard vs ChatGPT The best AI chatbots to try out: ChatGPT, Bard, and more ChatGPT vs Bing Chat Home Computing Features Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Newegg’s AI PC Builder is a dumpster fire that I can’t look away from By Jacob Roach Close Newegg is the latest to capitalize on the hype of ChatGPT by integrating the GPT model into its PC Builder tool. It sounds great — give it a prompt tailored for your purpose and get a PC build, all with quick links to buy what you need. There’s just one problem — it’s terrible.
A grab bag of nonsense Configuration problems When bad turns harmful No, the Newegg AI PC Builder isn’t just giving out a few odd recommendations. It’s still in beta, and that’s to be expected. The problem is that the AI seems to actively ignore the prompt you give it, suggests outlandish and unbalanced PCs, and has a clear bias toward charging you more when you asked to spend less.
A grab bag of nonsense Image used with permission by copyright holder The first and most pressing problem is budget. The AI willfully ignores whatever budget you set. I asked it to build a PC under $1,000 and it gave me a build with a $1,380 price tag. Worse, I then asked it to build a PC under $2,000 and it gave me one that cost $1,270. What gives? 23% of PC gamers probably can’t play Alan Wake 2. Here’s why I can’t get excited about AMD’s next version of FSR anymore Newegg wants you to trust ChatGPT for product reviews This behavior stretches across any budget you give the AI. It’s not consistent either. If you asked for a $500 PC, it will suggest an $1,100 build in one iteration and an $800 build in a different one. Myself and Digital Trends Computing Editor Luke Larsen played a bit of a game where we provided the exact same prompt to the AI at the same time, and in each case, we received wildly different builds.
It’s hard to trust anything the AI suggests because it handles Newegg’s inventory like a grab bag of parts that you can slap inside a case. It’s easy to dream up some really interesting use cases for this — build me a gaming PC for Counter-Strike Global Offensive under $800 — but the AI does such a poor job at even getting a basic budget correct.
What’s insidious about this is that the AI seems to have a bias toward higher prices if you have a lower budget. Across five runs, the AI provided a build that was 27.2% more expensive with a budget of $500 and 32.4% more expensive with a budget of $1,000. What’s interesting it that it provided a build that was 48% cheaper when provided with a budget of $2,000.
That example I mentioned above wasn’t a fluke; in four out of the five runs, the AI suggested a build that was more expensive with a budget of $1,000 versus a budget of $2,000.
Configuration problems Image used with permission by copyright holder It goes beyond price. Once you start to dig into the builds, there are some serious configuration problems. Above, you can see one of the builds it recommended for a gaming PC under $1,000. It pairs a 12-core Ryzen 9 5900X with an RTX 3060 graphics card , and then pairs that GPU with an 850-watt power supply (Nvidia only recommends a 550W power supply for the RTX 3060).
Here’s another one. I asked it for a PC for Premiere Pro for under $1,200, and it recommended a Ryzen 5 5600X with an RTX 3070. What’s hilarious is that the Premiere Pro and gaming builds were both around the same price, and if you swapped them, you’d have a better PC in both cases.
I could go on and on with these examples. I asked it for an RTX 3080 gaming PC; it recommended a build with the RTX 3070. I asked it for a PC with AMD’s 3D V-Cache , and it recommended three different builds with Intel processors. By far the worst example, however, was when it suggested a 32GB kit of DDR5 memory for an AMD Ryzen 9 5900X — which, for the record, doesn’t support DDR5. It even said the build wouldn’t work, but it recommended the list anyway.
Other AI tools already do a better job at this.
Google Bard and Microsoft’s Bing Chat both not only respected the budget I set, but also maximized that budget for my use case. Bard provided a gaming PC build that favored a higher-end GPU, for example, which is something Newegg’s tool consistently failed to do.
When bad turns harmful Image used with permission by copyright holder Newegg’s AI PC Builder is bad, but who cares? Bad PC building advice is rampant on the internet anyway, even if Newegg is the premier online retailer for PC components. The problem isn’t just the AI PC Builder. Newegg is haphazardly using AI across its entire service.
The press release where Newegg announced the new AI tools also mentioned using AI to modify website text, suggest product details and summaries, and provide recommendations for products. Newegg is also using AI for customer service inquiries and to suggest marketing email subject lines to maximize open rates.
The irony in all of this is that Newegg’s vice president of application development, Lucy Huo, acknowledges the fact that the Newegg audience understands new technology better than most: “Our customers are among the population’s most knowledgeable regarding the latest technology because they assemble often complex tech products,” Huo states in the press release. Knowing that and still releasing something as useless and blatantly wrong as the AI PC Builder is beyond me.
Hopefully, it’s a cautionary tale of throwing AI at a problem and expecting amazing results — we’ve certainly seen how that can go poorly in the past.
 In its current form, Newegg’s use of ChatGPT isn’t enhancing the shopping experience. It’s actively making it worse.
Editors' Recommendations ‘Compact Mode’ can’t fix the Xbox app. Here’s what could OpenAI’s new tool can spot fake AI images, but there’s a catch Zoom backpedals, says it will no longer use user content to train AI AI can now steal your passwords with almost 100% accuracy — here’s how Top authors demand payment from AI firms for using their work Artificial Intelligence Features PC Gaming Computing I don't get excited about keyboards much these days. There are so many good ones out there and little in the way of innovation. No surprise, then, that I wrote off the OnePlus Keyboard 81 Pro immediately after it was announced. How good could a keyboard from a phone company be anyways? Boy, was I wrong.
Like any new keyboard, I pulled the Keyboard 81 Pro out of the box and drummed my fingers along the keys, expecting a harsh, unpleasant smattering of plastic and squeaky springs that I'd heard many times before. This stock mechanical keyboard feel isn't bad, but I've become a keyboard snob over the past few years (and yes, feel free to roast me for that fact). But I didn't hear that sound or feel that feel. The Keyboard 81 Pro was quiet.
Computing Teaching complex board games seems like the perfect task for ChatGPT. Being able to ask it specific questions is a whole lot easier than flipping through a rules manual or digging through forum posts online.
And after weeks of effort and a healthy dose of prompt engineering, I have created the ultimate board game rules lawyer with ChatGPT. It can "learn" any game you throw at it, base games and expansions, and can answer nuanced questions accurately, with rulebook references so you can check its work.
Computing Nvidia is bringing generative AI to video games. Announced during its Computex 2023 keynote, Nvidia ACE is a new platform that allows developers to use generative AI to power conversations with characters in games.
Think ChatGPT, but instead of a general-purpose chatbot, you get a chatbot with a specific backstory and lore. Nvidia is stressing that flexibility is one of the most important aspects of ACE, as it will allow characters to have a fleshed-out backstory that informs their responses and keeps them from getting too off-topic. The company's recently announced NeMo Guardrails play a role in this, directing the conversation away from topics the developer doesn't intend.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
