Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing News Nvidia’s supercomputer may bring on a new era of ChatGPT By Monica J. White Close Nvidia Nvidia has just announced a new supercomputer that may change the future of AI. The DGX GH200, equipped with nearly 500 times more memory than the systems we’re familiar with now, will soon fall into the hands of Google, Meta, and Microsoft.
The goal? Revolutionizing generative AI , recommender systems, and data processing on a scale we’ve never seen before. Are language models like GPT going to benefit, and what will that mean for regular users? Describing Nvidia’s DGX GH200 requires the use of terms most users never have to deal with. “Exaflop,” for example, because the supercomputer provides 1 exaflop of performance and 144 terabytes of shared memory. Nvidia notes that this means nearly 500 times more memory than in a single Nvidia DGX A100 system.
Nvidia may launch three new Super GPUs to fight back AMD ChatGPT’s new upgrade finally breaks the text barrier Zoom adds ChatGPT to help you catch up on missed calls Let’s circle back to the 1 exaflop figure and break it down a little. One exaflop equals a quintillion floating-point operations per second (FLOPs). For comparison, Nvidia’s RTX 4090 can hit around 100 teraflops (TFLOPs) when overclocked. A TFLOP equals one trillion floating-point operations per second. The difference is staggering, but of course, the RTX 4090 is not a data center GPU. The DGX GH200, on the other hand, integrates a substantial number of these high-performance GPUs that don’t belong anywhere near a consumer PC.
Nvidia The computer is powered by Nvidia’s GH200 Grace Hopper superchips. There are 256 of them in total, which, thanks to Nvidia’s NVLink interconnect technology, are all able to work together as a unified system, essentially creating one massive GPU.
The GH200 superchips used here also don’t need a traditional PCIe connection between the CPU and the GPU. Nvidia says that they’re already equipped with an ARM-based Nvidia Grace CP,U as well as an H100 Tensor Core GPU. Nvidia’s got some fancy chip interconnects going on here too, this time using the NVLink-C2C. As a result, the bandwidth between the processor and the graphics card is said to be significantly improved (up to 7 times) and more power-efficient (up to 5 times).
Packing over 200 of these chips into a single powerhouse of a supercomputer is impressive enough, but it gets even better when you consider that, previously, only eight GPUs could be joined with NVLink at a time. A leap from eight to 256 chips certainly gives Nvidia some bragging rights.
It’s hard not to imagine that the DGX GH200 could power improvements in Bard, ChatGPT, and Bing Chat.
Now, where will the DGX GH200 end up and what can it offer to the world? Nvidia’s building its own Helios Supercomputer as a means of advancing its AI research and development. It will encompass four DGX GH200 systems, all interconnected with Nvidia’s Quantum-2 InfiniBand. It expects it to come online by the end of the year.
Nvidia is also sharing its new development with the world, starting with Google Cloud, Meta, and Microsoft. The purpose is much the same — exploring generative AI workloads.
When it comes to Google and Microsoft, it’s hard not to imagine that the DGX GH200 could power improvements in Bard , ChatGPT , and Bing Chat.
Nvidia The significant computational power provided by a single DGX GH200 system makes it well-suited to advancing the training of sophisticated language models. It’s hard to say what exactly that could mean without comment from one of the interested parties, but we can speculate a little.
More power means larger models, meaning more nuanced and accurate text and a wider range of data for them to be trained on. We might see better cultural understanding, more knowledge of context, and greater coherency. Specialized AI chatbots could also begin popping up, further replacing humans in fields such as technology.
Should we be concerned about potential job displacement, or should we be excited about the advancements these supercomputers could bring? The answer is not straightforward. One thing is for sure — Nvidia’s DGX GH200 might shake things up in the world of AI, and Nvidia has just furthered its AI lead over AMD yet again.
Editors' Recommendations Boston Dynamics uses ChatGPT to create a robot tour guide This powerful ChatGPT feature is back from the dead — with a few key changes GPT-4: how to use the AI chatbot that puts ChatGPT to shame ChatGPT may soon moderate illegal content on sites like Facebook Newegg wants you to trust ChatGPT for product reviews News Artificial Intelligence Tech News Computing It's common knowledge -- Macs are less prone to malware than their Windows counterparts. That still holds true today, but the rise of ChatGPT and other AI tools is challenging the status quo, with even the FBI warning of its far-reaching implications for cybersecurity.
That may be why software developer Macpaw launched its own cybersecurity division -- dubbed Moonlock -- specifically to fight Mac malware. We spoke to Oleg Stukalenko, Lead Product Manager at Moonlock, to find out whether Mac malware is on the rise, and if ChatGPT could give hackers a massive advantage over everyday users.
State-sponsored attacks Computing Apple CEO Tim Cook has just revealed that the company has been working on generative artificial intelligence (AI) tools “for years.” The surprise announcement suggests that Apple could launch a ChatGPT rival -- supposedly dubbed “Apple GPT” -- sooner than anyone expected.
The announcement was made in an interview with Reuters following Apple’s third-quarter earnings report. Cook explained that higher research and development (R&D) spending at the company had been driven in part by an increased focus on generative AI.
Computing There has been much chatter recently about Apple working on its own ChatGPT rival called Apple GPT. Well, we’ve just had some bad news: the artificial intelligence (AI) chatbot is apparently years away from release.
Apple analyst Ming-Chi Kuo put a dampener on expectations in a recent blog post, where he outlined his expectations for what could positively or negatively affect Apple stock prices in the coming months. Apple GPT is so far away from readiness, Kuo believes, that it simply won’t impact Apple stock prices any time soon.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
