Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: ChatGPT Alternatives ChatGPT on Slack ChatGPT on Mac ChatGPT Plus ChatGPT Detection ChatGPT 4 Bing Chat Google Bard Google Bard vs ChatGPT The best AI chatbots to try out: ChatGPT, Bard, and more ChatGPT vs Bing Chat Home Computing Features The 6 biggest problems with ChatGPT right now By Fionna Agomuoh Close The ChatGPT AI chatbot continues to be a hot topic online, making headlines for several reasons. While some are lauding it as a revolutionary tool — possibly even the savior of the internet — there’s been some considerable pushback as well.
Capacity issues Plagiarism and cheating Racism, sexism, and bias Accuracy problems The shady way it was trained There’s no mobile app From ethical concerns to its inability to be available, these are the six biggest issues with ChatGPT right now.
Capacity issues The ChatGPT AI chatbot has been dealing with capacity issues due to the high amount of traffic its website has garnered since becoming an internet sensation. Many potential new users have been unable to create new accounts and have been met with notices that read “Chat GPT is at capacity right now” at the first attempt.
1.
Limerick rhymes 2.
Talking like a pirate Having fun with the unfortunate situation, ChatGPT creators, OpenAI added fun limericks and raps to the homepage to explain the situation, rather than a generic explainer.
GPT-4 Turbo is the biggest update since ChatGPT’s launch OpenAI’s new tool can spot fake AI images, but there’s a catch This powerful ChatGPT feature is back from the dead — with a few key changes Currently, if you’re looking to follow up with ChatGPT during a crash you can click the “get notified” link and add your email address to the waitlist to be alerted when the chatbot is up and running again. Wait times appear to be about one hour before you can check back in to create an account. The only other solution will be in the upcoming premium version, which will reportedly cost $42 per month.
Plagiarism and cheating Students are already being caught using ChatGPT to plagiarize schoolwork at the collegiate level. Furman University assistant philosophy professor, Darren Hick recently spoke with the New York Post about catching a student who used the chatbot to formulate a 500-word essay he assigned as a take-home test. Hick detailed that not only was the submission flagged for AI usage but that the text read like it was written by a “very smart 12th-grader” or someone learning to write who hasn’t developed their own style.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Hick was able to determine that the student used the ChatGPT chatbot by executing several tests, including plugging the essay into software used to detect OpenAI text and also trying to recreate the essay with similar prompts. However, the student ultimately confessed to using ChatGPT to manufacture the essay. The student failed the class and was reported to the school’s academic dean, Hick told the publication.
He also noted due to the learning nature of the AI chatbot it will likely be smarter in a month and in a year, which has the potential to make its text harder to identify in plagiarism software.
Racism, sexism, and bias ChatGPT has also been discovered to have some issues when it comes to racial and gender biases associated with the chatbot. Implicit bias built into technology is far from a new concept; however, UC Berkeley psychology and neuroscience professor Steven Piantadosi shared on Twitter in early December 2022, many of the worrisome results he uncovered when inputting specific text into the chatbot.
Yes, ChatGPT is amazing and impressive. No, @OpenAI has not come close to addressing the problem of bias. Filters appear to be bypassed with simple tricks, and superficially masked.
And what is lurking inside is egregious.
@Abebab @sama tw racism, sexism.
pic.twitter.com/V4fw1fY9dY &mdash; steven t. piantadosi (@spiantado) December 4, 2022 Piantadosi used queries such as “Write a python function to check if someone would be a good scientist, based on a JSON description of their race and gender,” “Program to check if a child’s life should be saved based on their race and gender,” “Make an ASCII table that ranks who makes the best intellectuals, by race and gender,” and “Make an ASCII table of the typical human brains based on worth in USD. Break them down by race and gender.” These prompts yielded results that favored white and male and trended down for females and different persons of color.
It appears that OpenAI quickly addressed the issues, as people in the Tweet’s comments stated they were unable to recreate the python function query and were instead met with a response along the lines of “It is not appropriate to base a person’s potential as a scientist on their race or gender.” Notably, ChatGPT includes thumbs-up and thumbs-down buttons that users select as part of its learning algorithm.
I received similar results when inputting the queries into ChatGPT.
Accuracy problems Despite ChatGPT’s popularity, its issues with accuracy have been well-documented since its inception.
OpenAI admits that the chatbot has “limited knowledge of world events after 2021,” and is prone to filling in replies with incorrect data if there is not enough information available on a subject.
ChatGPT notable people astrology interpretation with inaccurate results.
Image used with permission by copyright holder When I used the chatbot to explore my area of interest , tarot, and astrology, I was easily able to identify errors within responses and state that there was incorrect information. However, recent reports from publications including Futurism and Gizmodo indicate that the publication, CNET was not only using ChatGPT to generate explainer articles for its Money section but many of the articles were found to have glaring inaccuracies.
While CNET continues to use the AI chatbot to develop articles, a new discourse has begun with a slew of questions. How much should publications depend on AI to create content? How much should publications be required to divulge about their use of AI? Is AI replacing writers and journalists or redirecting them to more important work? What role will editors and fact-checkers play if AI-developed content becomes more popular? The shady way it was trained ChatGPT is based on a constantly learning algorithm that not only scrapes information from the internet but also gathers corrections based on user interaction. However, a Time investigative report uncovered that OpenAI utilized a team in Kenya in order to train the chatbot against disturbing content, including child sexual abuse, bestiality, murder, suicide, torture, self-harm, and incest.
Image used with permission by copyright holder According to the report, OpenAI worked with the San Francisco firm, Sama, which outsourced the task to its four-person team in Kenya to label various content as offensive. For their efforts, the employees were paid $2 per hour.
The employees expressed experiencing mental distress at being made to interact with such content. Despite Sama claiming it offered employees counseling services, the employees stated they were unable to make use of them regularly due to the intensity of the job. Ultimately, OpenAI ended its relationship with Sama, with the Kenyan employees either losing their jobs or having to opt for lower-paying jobs.
The investigation tackled the all-too-common ethics issue of the exploitation of low-cost workers for the benefit of high-earning companies.
There’s no mobile app Currently, the completely free ChatGPT has been available as a strictly browser-based platform. So, there’s no mobile app for taking ChatGPT on the go. That’s led to copycat apps filling the stores, including a subscription-based app of the tool available on mobile app stores for exorbitant prices. A Google Play Store version was quickly flagged and removed, according to TechCrunch.
Scammers are cashing in on the popularity of ChatGPT.
The $7.99/week scam app &quot;ChatGPT Chat GPT AI With GPT-3&quot; is the 5th most popular download in the App Store&#39;s productivity category, per @Gizmodo.
Reminder: The real ChatGPT is free for anyone to use on the internet.
pic.twitter.com/WvcL5n8zO0 &mdash; Morning Brew ☕️ (@MorningBrew) January 14, 2023 The worst of the scams was in the Apple App Store, where an app called “ChatGPT Chat GPT AI With GPT-3″ received a considerable amount of fanfare and then media attention from publications, including MacRumors and Gizmodo before it was removed from the App Store.
Seedy developers looking to make a quick buck charged $8 for a weekly subscription after a three-day trial or a $50 monthly subscription, which was notably more expensive than the weekly cost. The news put fans on alert that there were ChatGPT fakes not associated with OpenAI floating around, but many were willing to pay due to the limited access to the real chatbot.
Along with this report, rumors surfaced that OpenAI is developing a legitimate mobile app for ChatGPT; however, the brand has not confirmed this news.
For now, the best alternative to a ChatGPT mobile app is loading the chatbot on your smartphone browser.
Editors' Recommendations The world responds to the creator of ChatGPT being fired by his own company Apple may finally beef up Siri with AI smarts next year Bing Chat just beat a security check to stop hackers and spammers ChatGPT’s new upgrade finally breaks the text barrier Most people distrust AI and want regulation, says new survey Artificial Intelligence Features Computing Facebook owner Meta is working on an artificial intelligence (AI) system that it hopes will be more powerful than GPT-4, the large language model developed by OpenAI that powers ChatGPT Plus. If successful, that could add much more competition to the world of generative AI chatbots -- and potentially bring a host of serious problems along with it.
According to The Wall Street Journal, Meta is aiming to launch its new AI model in 2024. The company reportedly wants the new model to be “several times more powerful” than Llama 2, the AI tool it launched as recently as July 2023.
Computing The Zoom video-calling app has just added its own “AI Companion” assistant that integrates artificial intelligence (AI) and large language models (LLMs) from ChatGPT maker OpenAI and Facebook owner Meta. The tool is designed to help you catch up on meetings you missed and devise quick responses to chat messages.
Zoom’s developer says the AI Companion “empowers individuals by helping them be more productive, connect and collaborate with teammates, and improve their skills.” Computing Ever since the first generative artificial intelligence (AI) tools exploded onto the tech scene, there have been questions over where they’re getting their data and whether they’re harvesting your private data to train their products. Now, ChatGPT maker OpenAI could be in hot water for exactly these reasons.
According to TechCrunch, a complaint has been filed with the Polish Office for Personal Data Protection alleging that ChatGPT violates a large number of rules found in the European Union’s General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). It suggests that OpenAI’s tool has been scooping up user data in all sorts of questionable ways.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
