Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: ChatGPT Alternatives ChatGPT on Slack ChatGPT on Mac ChatGPT Plus ChatGPT Detection ChatGPT 4 Bing Chat Google Bard Google Bard vs ChatGPT The best AI chatbots to try out: ChatGPT, Bard, and more ChatGPT vs Bing Chat Home Computing Guides The best ChatGPT alternatives (according to ChatGPT) By Fionna Agomuoh Close ChatGPT has quickly become the darling of generative AI, but it’s hardly the only player in the game. In addition to all the other AI tools out there that do things like image generation, there’s also a number of direct competitors with ChatGPT — or so I assumed.
Bing by Microsoft BERT by Google Meena by Google RoBERTa by Facebook XLNet by Google DialoGPT by Microsoft Research ALBERT by Google T5 by Google CTRL by Salesforce GShard by Google Blender by Facebook AI Research Pegasus by Google Why not ask ChatGPT about it? That’s exactly what I did to get this list, hoping to find some options for those facing “at capacity” notices , or others who just want try something new. Not all of these are as accessible to the public as ChatGPT, but according to ChatGPT, these are the best alternatives.
Bing by Microsoft Image used with permission by copyright holder Before getting into the picks listed by the AI, the best alternative to ChatGPT is, well, ChatGPT. Microsoft recently added the AI into its Bing search engine , and it plans on rolling out the feature to the Edge browser soon.
It’s only in preview, but you can still try out the new AI chatbot at bing.com/new right now. Microsoft says it’s limiting the number of queries initially, but you can join the Bing ChatGPT waitlist to be notified when the full version is available.
GPT-4 Turbo is the biggest update since ChatGPT’s launch Apple may finally beef up Siri with AI smarts next year Bing Chat just beat a security check to stop hackers and spammers BERT by Google BERT (Bidirectional Encoder Representations from Transformers) is a machine-learning model developed by Google. Lots of ChatGPT’s results mentioned projects by Google, which you’ll see later on in this list.
BERT is known for its natural language-processing (NLP) abilities, such as question-answering and sentiment analysis. It uses BookCorpus and English Wikipedia as its models for pretraining references, having learned 800 million and 2.5 billion words respectively.
BERT was first announced as an open-source research project and academic paper in October 2018. The technology has since been implemented into Google Search.
Early literature about BERT compareb it to OpenAI’s ChatGPT in November 2018, noting that Google’s technology is deep bidirectional, which helps with predicting incoming text. Meanwhile, OpenAI GPT is unidirectional and can only respond to complex queries.
Meena by Google Meena is a chatbot that Google introduced in January 2020 with the ability to converse in a humanlike fashion. Examples of its functions include simple conversations that include interesting jokes and puns, such as Meena suggesting cows study “Bovine sciences” at Harvard.
As a direct alternative to OpenAI’s GPT-2, Meena had the ability to process 8.5 times as much data as its competitor at the time. Its neural network comprises 2.6 parameters and it is trained on public domain social media conversations. Meena also received a metric score in Sensibleness and Specificity Average (SSA) of 79%, making it one of the most intelligent chatbots of its time.
The Meena code is available on GitHub.
RoBERTa by Facebook RoBERTa (Robustly Optimized BERT Pretraining Approach) is another advanced version of the original BERT, which Facebook announced in July 2019.
Facebook created this NLP model with a larger source of data as its pretraining model. RoBERTa uses CommonCrawl (CC-News), which includes 63 million English news articles generated between September 2016 and February 2019, as its 76GB data set. In comparison, the original BERT uses 16GB of data between its English Wikipedia and BookCorpus data sets, according to Facebook.
Silimar to XLNet, RoBERTa beat BERT in a set of benchmark data sets, as per Facebook’s research. To get these results, the company not only used a larger data source but also pretrained its model for a longer period of time.
Facebook made RoBERTa open-source in September 2019, and its code is available on GitHub for community experimentation.
VentureBeat also mentioned GPT-2 among the emerging AI systems during that time.
XLNet by Google XLNET is a transformer-based autoregressive language model developed by a team of Google Brain and Carnegie Mellon University researchers.
 The model is essentially a more advanced BERT and was first showcased in June 2019. The group found XLNet to be at least 16% more efficient than the original BERT, which was announced in 2018, with it able to beat BERT in a test of 20 NLP tasks.
XLNet: a new pretraining method for NLP that significantly improves upon BERT on 20 tasks (e.g., SQuAD, GLUE, RACE) arxiv: https://t.co/C1tFMwZvyW github (code + pretrained models): https://t.co/kI4jsVzT1u with Zhilin Yang, @ZihangDai , Yiming Yang, Jaime Carbonell, @rsalakhu pic.twitter.com/JboOekUVPQ &mdash; Quoc Le (@quocleix) June 20, 2019 With both XLNet and BERT using “masked” tokens to predict hidden text, XLNet improves efficiency by speeding up the predictive part of the process. For example, Amazon Alexa data scientist Aishwarya Srinivasan explained that XLNet is able to identify the word “New” as being associated with the term “is a city” before predicting the term “York” as also being associated with that term. Meanwhile, BERT needs to identify the words “New” and “York” separately and then associate them with the term “is a city,” for example.
Notably, GPT and GPT-2 are also mentioned in this explainer from 2019 as other examples of autoregressive language models.
XLNet code and pretrained models are available on GitHub.
 The model is well-known among the NLP research community.
DialoGPT by Microsoft Research The DialoGPT (Dialogue Generative Pre-trained Transformer) is an autoregressive language model that was introduced in November 2019 by Microsoft Research. With similarities to GPT-2, the model was pretrained to generate humanlike conversation. However, its primary source of information was 147 million multi-turn dialogues scraped from Reddit threads.
Image used with permission by copyright holder HumanFirst chief evangelist Cobus Greyling has noted his success at implementing DialoGPT into the Telegram messaging service to bring the model to life as a chatbot. He added that using Amazon Web Services and Amazon SageMaker can help with fine-tuning the code.
The DialoGPT code is available on GitHub.
ALBERT by Google ALBERT (A Lite BERT) is a truncated version of the original BERT and was developed by Google in December 2019.
With ALBERT, Google limited the number of parameters allowed in the model by introducing parameters with “hidden layer embeddings.” Image used with permission by copyright holder This improved not only on the BERT model but also on XLNet and RoBERTa because ALBERT can be trained on the same larger data set of information used for the two newer models while adhering to smaller parameters. Essentially, ALBERT only works with the parameters necessary for its functions, which increased performance and accuracy. Google detailed that it found ALBERT to exceed BERT on 12 NLP benchmarks, including an SAT-like reading comprehension benchmark.
While not mentioned by name, GPT is included within the imaging for the ALBERT on Google’s Research blog.
Google released the ALBERT as open-source in January 2020, and it was implemented on top of Google’s TensorFlow. The code is available on GitHub.
T5 by Google CTRL by Salesforce GShard by Google GShard is a giant language translation model that Google introduced in June 2020 for the purpose of neural network scaling. The model includes 600 billion parameters, which allows for large sets of data training at once. GShard is particularly adept at language translation and being trained to translate 100 languages into English in four days.
Blender by Facebook AI Research Blender is an open-source chatbot that was introduced in April 2020 by Facebook AI Research. The chatbot has been noted to have improved conversational skills over competitor models, with the ability to provide engaging talking points, listen and show understanding of its’s partner’s input, and showcase empathy and personality.
Blender has been compared to Google’s Meena chatbot, which has in turn been compared to OpenAI’s GPT-2 The Blender code is available on Parl.ai.
Pegasus by Google Pegasus is a natural language processing model that was introduced by Google in December 2019. Pegasus can be trained to create summaries, and similar to other models like BERT, GPT-2, RoBERTa, XLNet, ALBERT, and T5, it can be fine-tuned to specific tasks. Pegasus has been tested on its efficiency in summarizing news, science, stories, instructions, emails, patents, and legislative bills in comparison to human subjects.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The Pegasus code is available on GitHub.
Editors' Recommendations The world responds to the creator of ChatGPT being fired by his own company New ‘poisoning’ tool spells trouble for AI text-to-image tech OpenAI’s new tool can spot fake AI images, but there’s a catch Bing Chat’s ads are sending users to dangerous malware sites ChatGPT: the latest news, controversies, and tips you need to know Artificial Intelligence Computing ChatGPT has just regained the ability to browse the internet to help you find information. That should (hopefully) help you get more accurate, up-to-date data right when you need it, rather than solely relying on the artificial intelligence (AI) chatbot’s rather outdated training data.
As well as giving straight-up answers to your questions based on info found online, ChatGPT developer OpenAI revealed that the tool will provide a link to its sources so you can check the facts yourself. If it turns out that ChatGPT was wrong or misleading, well, that’s just another one for the chatbot’s long list of missteps.
Computing OpenAI is rolling out new functionalities for ChatGPT that will allow prompts to be executed with images and voice directives in addition to text.
The AI brand announced on Monday that it will be making these new features available over the next two weeks to ChatGPT Plus and Enterprise users. The voice feature is available in iOS and Android in an opt-in capacity, while the images feature is available on all ChatGPT platforms. OpenAI notes it plans to expand the availability of the images and voice features beyond paid users after the staggered rollout.
Computing Most American adults do not trust artificial intelligence (AI) tools like ChatGPT and worry about their potential misuse, a new survey has found. It suggests that the frequent scandals surrounding AI-created malware and disinformation are taking their toll and that the public might be increasingly receptive to ideas of AI regulation.
The survey from the MITRE Corporation and the Harris Poll claims that just 39% of 2,063 U.S. adults polled believe that today’s AI tech is “safe and secure,” a drop of 9% from when the two firms conducted their last survey in November 2022.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
