Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: ChatGPT Alternatives ChatGPT on Slack ChatGPT on Mac ChatGPT Plus ChatGPT Detection ChatGPT 4 Bing Chat Google Bard Google Bard vs ChatGPT The best AI chatbots to try out: ChatGPT, Bard, and more ChatGPT vs Bing Chat Home Computing News The updated Bing Chat leapfrogs ChatGPT in 6 important new ways By Luke Larsen Close Just three months after its initial release, Microsoft has unveiled an evolution of Bing Chat that adds some key new features — and in some ways, takes it beyond what can be done with ChatGPT.
Visual answers Multimodal support Third-party plugins Bing Image Creator in 100 languages Export and share Better integration into Edge Bing Chat has officially left its Limited Preview stage, eliminating the waitlist and opening up access to all. This new version of Bing Chat can be accessed through Bing and the Edge browser by logging into your Microsoft account. Once there, you’ll find access to these four new features that greatly expand what Bing Chat’s AI capabilities can do.
Visual answers Image used with permission by copyright holder The most noticeable change to Bing Chat is its emphasis on visuals. Rather than just answer prompts with text only, Bing Chat will now toss in various visuals, photos, and graphics — completely on its own. These are similar to what is already available in traditional Bing search, where Knowledge cards and “visual” search results will appear.
GPT-4 Turbo is the biggest update since ChatGPT’s launch Bing Chat just beat a security check to stop hackers and spammers ChatGPT: the latest news, controversies, and tips you need to know Though we didn’t get an example of this, Microsoft even says video will be a part of this new visual search more and more in the future. Videos will open and play directly in the chat interface without requiring a new tab, with even YouTube supported.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Bing Chat will now respond to questions or prompts with charts, graphs, and “updated formatting” of answers. This updated formatting might include bulleted lists, bolded text, and more. This is a feature ChatGPT is already good at, but it’s nice to see Bing Chat support it also.
Multimodal support Multimodal support was announced for GPT-4 earlier this year, but it still hasn’t been rolled out. Now, according to Microsoft, Bing Chat will also get the ability to receive visual input rather than just text.
This is similar to visual search, except backward. Bing Chat will be able to analyze and interact with images in the same way it can with text. In addition to prompting Bing Chat with an image, you’ll also be able to insert a link and ask a question that’s contextually related to what’s in the image or link. This is something we’ve seen work in projects like MiniGPT-4 , but having it built right into the freely accessible Bing Chat is fantastic.
Third-party plugins Microsoft Plugins have been available in ChatGPT Plus for a while, but having plugins for a completely free service is new. For now, Microsoft has shared just three partners: OpenTable, Wolfram Alpha, and Microsoft Math Solver. These plugins will augment the answers of Bing Chat to give it extra capabilities, such as the ability to make a reservation through OpenTable. These plugins can be accessed via the Bing Chat Copilot in the Edge browser.
Plugins aren’t yet available, but Microsoft says there will be more details about it coming at Microsoft Build later this month.
Bing Image Creator in 100 languages Image used with permission by copyright holder Bing Image Creator is only around a month old, but access to it has involved a slow rollout. Bing Image Creator has been available through bing.com/create , but the integration into the Edge Copilot has been limited. This is important because the integration in Edge Copilot is much more powerful, allowing you to generate images based on the flow of the chat.
Now, not only is Bing Image Creator available for all, it can even be used in 100 different languages worldwide. ChatGPT currently supports 50 languages for its text-only chatbot, but Bing Image Creator having support for over 100 languages is impressive.
Export and share Image used with permission by copyright holder Another new feature in Bing Chat is the ability to export and share content from the chats. Right now, getting content out of ChatGPT involves lots of copying and pasting, but the ability to export or share your content with one click should be handy, especially when dealing with lots of bits of text or photos. When exporting, the conversations stay in the exact same format.
Connected to this, Bing Chat is finally bringing chat history as a feature as well. This is something ChatGPT has always had, but it’s become the most highly requested feature for Bing Chat ever since its launch. Microsoft says chats are going to be more personalized over time, by “bringing context from a previous chat into new conversations.” Chat history, when launched, will appear in the sidebar over Edge, split into “recent” and “saved” tabs.
Better integration into Edge Image used with permission by copyright holder Along with the announcement of the new version of chat, Microsoft is also announcing a new version of the Edge browser. Because Microsoft has tied Bing Chat to Edge from the very beginning, this means Edge has lots of new AI-specific features. They’re all in beta at the moment, but this new version of Copilot in Edge includes the ability to “organize my tabs,” which automatically pulls them into groups based on content and context. You can ask Bing to change your browser settings, or even summarize and analyze long documents or websites open in the browser.
This deep integration into Edge allows Bing Chat to interact with live content on the web, whereas ChatGPT remains limited to web content in 2021 or earlier.
Alongside the new AI features, this new version of Edge will also get a visual refresh, adding floating tabs with rounded corners, semitransparent elements, and an overall more streamlined look.
Editors' Recommendations The world responds to the creator of ChatGPT being fired by his own company OpenAI’s new tool can spot fake AI images, but there’s a catch Bing Chat’s ads are sending users to dangerous malware sites This powerful ChatGPT feature is back from the dead — with a few key changes ChatGPT’s new upgrade finally breaks the text barrier Artificial Intelligence Microsoft Tech News Computing Microsoft Copilot is coming to Bing and Edge Microsoft You'll soon be hearing more about Microsoft Copilot and Bing Image Creator as these innovative technologies come to Microsoft Edge and Bing. The news of their arrival was delivered at Microsoft's Surface Event, along with several more AI and hardware announcements.
Computing Most American adults do not trust artificial intelligence (AI) tools like ChatGPT and worry about their potential misuse, a new survey has found. It suggests that the frequent scandals surrounding AI-created malware and disinformation are taking their toll and that the public might be increasingly receptive to ideas of AI regulation.
The survey from the MITRE Corporation and the Harris Poll claims that just 39% of 2,063 U.S. adults polled believe that today’s AI tech is “safe and secure,” a drop of 9% from when the two firms conducted their last survey in November 2022.
Computing Facebook owner Meta is working on an artificial intelligence (AI) system that it hopes will be more powerful than GPT-4, the large language model developed by OpenAI that powers ChatGPT Plus. If successful, that could add much more competition to the world of generative AI chatbots -- and potentially bring a host of serious problems along with it.
According to The Wall Street Journal, Meta is aiming to launch its new AI model in 2024. The company reportedly wants the new model to be “several times more powerful” than Llama 2, the AI tool it launched as recently as July 2023.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
