Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: ChatGPT Alternatives ChatGPT on Slack ChatGPT on Mac ChatGPT Plus ChatGPT Detection ChatGPT 4 Bing Chat Google Bard Google Bard vs ChatGPT The best AI chatbots to try out: ChatGPT, Bard, and more ChatGPT vs Bing Chat Home Computing Guides What is Auto-GPT? Here’s how autonomous AI agents are taking over the internet By Luke Larsen Close ChatGPT has taken the world by storm, in large part thanks to its dead-simple framework. It’s just an AI chatbot , capable of producing convincing, natural-language text in responses to the user.
What is Auto-GPT? How does Auto-GPT work? Use cases for Auto-GPT How to use Auto-GPT Has Auto-GPT achieved AGI? But with AI chatbots, a lot relies on a person’s ability to come up with prompts that the AI will respond to. Auto-GPT is a new application that allows AI to act autonomously that can “self-prompt,” and it’s completely changing the way we think about this technology.
What is Auto-GPT? Image used with permission by copyright holder Auto-GPT is an open-source Python application that was posted on GitHub on March 30, 2023, by a developer called Significant Gravitas.
 Using GPT-4 as its basis, the application allows the AI to act “autonomously” without the need for the user to prompt every action. You can get Auto-GPT an overall goal, and step-by-step, will take actions to accomplish that goal. That is where the concept of “AI agents” comes from, which are using the internet and performing actions on a PC completely on its own — without the need to be prompted at every step.
GPT-4 Turbo is the biggest update since ChatGPT’s launch OpenAI’s new tool can spot fake AI images, but there’s a catch This powerful ChatGPT feature is back from the dead — with a few key changes The simple example posted in the original GitHub is of Auto-GPT given the goal of browsing the web to come up with unique and original recipes for “the next upcoming event,” such as Easter. Chef-GPT, as it was named, then starts searching the web for a solution. The second goal was to save the recipe as a file on the user’s computer.
On its own, that might not sound all that innovative. But Auto-GPT’s ability to search the internet on behalf of the user and perform actions like saving files takes this AI far beyond a simple chatbot.
How does Auto-GPT work? One of the fascinating things about Auto-GPT is the way it breaks out the AI’s steps, which is where GPT’s excellent text generation comes in. Auto-GPT calls them “thoughts,” “reasoning,” and “criticism” — telling you exactly what the AI is doing and why. In the example of Chef-GPT from above, its first “thought” was as follows: “I will search for upcoming events to find a suitable one for creating a unique recipe.” The “reasoning,” then, is that “Finding an upcoming event will help me come up with a relevant and exciting recipe.” The “criticism” produced by Auto-GPT will express some of the concerns and limitations around what it’s doing. As you can see, Auto-GPT is taking steps completely autonomously to accomplish the goals given by the user.
A few other neat features of Auto-GPT include long/short-term memory and text-to-speech integration via ElevenLabs.
 The combination of all these features makes Auto-GPT feels much more like an AI made to interact with humans.
Use cases for Auto-GPT People are discovering all sorts of possible use cases for Auto-GPT, and we’re still at the beginning. Because it’s completely open-source, anyone can go and play with the tool. A simple example that was posted on Twitter was for “Ecommerce-GPT,” which was given the goal to autonomously develop and run an e-commerce business with the goal of increasing net worth.
I have a Auto-GPT from @SigGravitas currently developing an E-Commerce business. It has decided to browse the internet for business ideas, saving its findings to files for reference later on.
@pinecone @OpenAI @Google @DuckDuckGo pic.twitter.com/eoUFgUDoJK &mdash; Graham Fleming (@GrahamFleming_) April 7, 2023 Another interesting example was in the world of coding. One user on Twitter came up with “Robo-GPT,” which is given the task of analyzing, rewriting, and saving code.
🚀 Today, I wrote Robo-GPT, a variant of #AutoGPT 🤖 https://t.co/qJRwEYWndP ✨ I tried to make the code clean and dependencies simple. It currently doesn&#39;t have as many features as Auto-GPT, but is hopefully easier to understand, run and update.
#GPT4 #AI pic.twitter.com/T09jG4D9su &mdash; Rok Strniša (@RokStrnisa) April 4, 2023 There are loads more of examples, and it’s not hard to imagine how this could evolve into bots creating websites, running social media campaigns, and much more.
In addition, there are rival systems that have been developed that perform similar functions. These include Microsoft Jarvis and BabyAGI, both of which allow GPT to “self-prompt” and act autonomously.
How to use Auto-GPT Like a lot of GitHub projects, getting Auto-GPT set up isn’t as simple as downloading a file or going to a website. There are a few important requirements needed before you get started, which include Python 3.8 (or later), an OpenAI API key , and a Pinecone API key. You’ll also need an ElevenLabs API if you want the optional text-to-speech feature.
Links to those can be found on the Auto-GPT GitHub page, along with other important information. Once you have those three requirements done, click on “Code” and download the Zip file. Alternatively, you can access the files through the Git application.
First, open up a command-line program like PowerShell, where you’ll need to type in “git clone https://github.com/Torantulino/Auto-GPT.git” to clone the repository.
The second step is to type in “cd ‘Auto-GPT'” into PowerShell to navigate to the project directory. Then, type “pip install -r requirements.txt” to install the required dependencies. Lastly, you’ll need to rename the file “.env.template” to “.env” and fill in your OpenAI API key.
Once you have Auto-GPT installed, it’s really simple to use. It’ll ask you name the bot first, followed by providing it with a goal. There are even examples of both given to lead you in the right direction.
Has Auto-GPT achieved AGI? Lots of AI enthusiasts are pointing to Auto-GPT as the first glimpse of AGI (Artificial General Intelligence).
 The reason, of course, is that Auto-GPT demonstrates the ability to reason and take multiple autonomous steps toward accomplishing goals. The addition of long- and short-term memory gives Auto-GPT permanence too, allowing it to learn new things.
Plenty of people will say that a series of linked prompts doesn’t make a system “intelligent,” while others claim that much of human intelligence and behavior acts in a similar manner.
Whether it’s the beginning of AGI or just a particularly useful next step in standard AI, Auto-GPT certainly raises some philosophical questions about the future of the “intelligent beings” living and acting on the internet.
Editors' Recommendations The world responds to the creator of ChatGPT being fired by his own company Apple may finally beef up Siri with AI smarts next year ChatGPT: the latest news, controversies, and tips you need to know ChatGPT’s new upgrade finally breaks the text barrier Most people distrust AI and want regulation, says new survey Artificial Intelligence Computing Microsoft Copilot and Google Duet are the two most prominent artificial intelligence assistants put out by the various tech giants since OpenAI debuted its ChatGPT chatbot in 2022. They're set to bring that powerful natural language assistance into the enterprise in ways that can enhance productivity, improve the digital fluency of workers, and leverage existing data in new and exciting ways.
But which one is best? Both offer comparable features at a comparable cost, but they aren't interchangeable and even getting access to either tool requires a bit of luck. Here's how these two awesome AI tools compare.
Computing Facebook owner Meta is working on an artificial intelligence (AI) system that it hopes will be more powerful than GPT-4, the large language model developed by OpenAI that powers ChatGPT Plus. If successful, that could add much more competition to the world of generative AI chatbots -- and potentially bring a host of serious problems along with it.
According to The Wall Street Journal, Meta is aiming to launch its new AI model in 2024. The company reportedly wants the new model to be “several times more powerful” than Llama 2, the AI tool it launched as recently as July 2023.
Computing People were in awe when ChatGPT came out, impressed by its natural language abilities as an AI chatbot. But when the highly anticipated GPT-4 large language model came out, it blew the lid off what we thought was possible with AI, with some calling it the early glimpses of AGI (artificial general intelligence).
The creator of the model, OpenAI, calls it the company's "most advanced system, producing safer and more useful responses." Here's everything you need to know about it, including how to use it and what it can do.
What is GPT-4? GPT-4 is a new language model created by OpenAI that can generate text that is similar to human speech. It advances the technology used by ChatGPT, which is currently based on GPT-3.5. GPT is the acronym for Generative Pre-trained Transformer, a deep learning technology that uses artificial neural networks to write like a human.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
