Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: ChatGPT Alternatives ChatGPT on Slack ChatGPT on Mac ChatGPT Plus ChatGPT Detection ChatGPT 4 Bing Chat Google Bard Google Bard vs ChatGPT The best AI chatbots to try out: ChatGPT, Bard, and more ChatGPT vs Bing Chat Home Computing Guides What is ChatGPT Plus? Everything we know about the premium tier By Aaron Leong and Luke Larsen Close ChatGPT is completely free to use, but that doesn’t mean OpenAI isn’t also interested in making some money.
What is ChatGPT Plus? How much does it cost? What does ChatGPT Plus include? Why does OpenAI want you to pay up? Can I subscribe to ChatGPT Plus now? The future of ChatGPT Plus ChatGPT Plus is a subscription model that gives you access to a completely different service based on GPT-4 , with faster speeds and more reliable access.
Image used with permission by copyright holder What is ChatGPT Plus? Details about ChatGPT Plus had been emerging from insiders for weeks, but the official news finally broke on February 1, 2023 via a blog post from OpenAI , the company behind the popular generative text AI.
“We launched ChatGPT as a research preview so we could learn more about the system’s strengths and weaknesses, and gather user feedback to help us improve upon its limitations,” the blog post states. “Since then, millions of people have given us feedback, we’ve made several important updates, and we’ve seen users find value across a range of professional use cases including drafting and editing content, brainstorming ideas, programming help, and learning new topics.” GPT-4 Turbo is the biggest update since ChatGPT’s launch Bing Chat just beat a security check to stop hackers and spammers This powerful ChatGPT feature is back from the dead — with a few key changes Like the standard version of ChatGPT, ChatGPT Plus is an AI chatbot , and it offers a highly accurate machine learning assistant that’s able to carry out natural language “chats.” This is the latest version of the chatbot that’s currently available.
How much does it cost? ChatGPT Plus costs $20 per month, which is a lot less than it was rumored to cost. Of course, the free version of ChatGPT remains in place, so paying won’t be a requirement to use the service moving forward.
We’ll have to see how long OpenAI keeps this price, however. Some reports indicate that it may be costing as much as $700,000 per day to operate, but then again, we don’t know how many subscribers ChatGPT Plus currently has.
What does ChatGPT Plus include? Image used with permission by copyright holder When ChatGPT launched, it was described as providing access to three specific features: General access to ChatGPT, even during peak times Faster response times Priority access to new features and improvements Having access to ChatGPT during peak times is the most obvious major benefit of paying for ChatGPT Plus. With some people having to wait hours to get in , that alone should ensure the popularity of the subscription model. The idea of getting first access to new features and improvements is interesting too, even if what those new features will be remains a mystery.
It’s more than just jumping to the front of the line, though. ChatGPT Plus officially supports GPT-4 , which is this latest large language model (LLM), greatly expanding what standard ChatGPT, which uses GPT-3.5 can do.
 According to OpenAI, GPT-4 provides 40% more factual responses , and is a much stronger collaborative tool for creative tasks. In many ways, we’re still discovering just how much more powerful GPT-4 is that GPT-3.5 , but some believe it even hints at the first sparks of AGI (artificial general intelligence).
Other major features added through GPT-4 are the ability to receive visual input instead of just text, much longer text inputs and outputs, and access to data gleaned from the internet prior to 2022. In particular, GPT-4 has a massive 25,000-word limit compared to the 3,000 of ChatGPT.
Image used with permission by copyright holder If you’re interested in trying it out, you can easily check it out and cancel your account later if it’s not longer needed.
Why does OpenAI want you to pay up? ChatGPT has high running costs — for hosting, upkeep, upgrading hardware, updates, satisfying its investor , etc. — while its own popularity has led to an immediate need to improve its accessibility and speed to a greater user base. Some estimates peg daily running costs at $100,000, or up to $3 million a month! The premium subscription should help to cover server upgrades.
It’s safe to assume that a premium tier will let OpenAI control bandwidth issues, especially during peak times of the day.
Can I subscribe to ChatGPT Plus now? Image used with permission by copyright holder Yes. ChatGPT Plus initially launched in early access phase, which was by invite only through a waitlist. But now, you can upgrade your account to ChatGPT Plus just by clicking on “Upgrade to Plus” at the bottom of the sidebar.
As an alternative, you can check out some of what GPT-4 has to offer by using Bing Chat , which also uses GPT-4 as a basis for its chats.
The future of ChatGPT Plus OpenAI is already working on the next versions of its LLM — most notably, GPT-4.5. We don’t know much about this updated model, except that it will build on the foundation laid by GPT-4. OpenAI has suggested in the past that GPT-4.5 could be finished training and ready to go by September or October of this year.
It seems possible that GPT-4.5 will be released to ChatGPT Plus subscribers, but we don’t yet know how the company plans to roll out new versions of its chatbot.
GPT-5 was at one point rumored to be in the works, but OpenAI now says it’s no longer even on the road map.
Editors' Recommendations The world responds to the creator of ChatGPT being fired by his own company OpenAI’s new tool can spot fake AI images, but there’s a catch ChatGPT: the latest news, controversies, and tips you need to know ChatGPT’s new upgrade finally breaks the text barrier Most people distrust AI and want regulation, says new survey Artificial Intelligence Microsoft Computing Facebook owner Meta is working on an artificial intelligence (AI) system that it hopes will be more powerful than GPT-4, the large language model developed by OpenAI that powers ChatGPT Plus. If successful, that could add much more competition to the world of generative AI chatbots -- and potentially bring a host of serious problems along with it.
According to The Wall Street Journal, Meta is aiming to launch its new AI model in 2024. The company reportedly wants the new model to be “several times more powerful” than Llama 2, the AI tool it launched as recently as July 2023.
Computing People were in awe when ChatGPT came out, impressed by its natural language abilities as an AI chatbot. But when the highly anticipated GPT-4 large language model came out, it blew the lid off what we thought was possible with AI, with some calling it the early glimpses of AGI (artificial general intelligence).
The creator of the model, OpenAI, calls it the company's "most advanced system, producing safer and more useful responses." Here's everything you need to know about it, including how to use it and what it can do.
What is GPT-4? GPT-4 is a new language model created by OpenAI that can generate text that is similar to human speech. It advances the technology used by ChatGPT, which is currently based on GPT-3.5. GPT is the acronym for Generative Pre-trained Transformer, a deep learning technology that uses artificial neural networks to write like a human.
Computing The Zoom video-calling app has just added its own “AI Companion” assistant that integrates artificial intelligence (AI) and large language models (LLMs) from ChatGPT maker OpenAI and Facebook owner Meta. The tool is designed to help you catch up on meetings you missed and devise quick responses to chat messages.
Zoom’s developer says the AI Companion “empowers individuals by helping them be more productive, connect and collaborate with teammates, and improve their skills.” Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
