Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Guides Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best Google Assistant-compatible devices By Alina Bradford Close Google Assistant is one of the most popular smart home ecosystems of 2023. Hundreds of devices are compatible with the technology, including smart thermostats, lights, cameras, and locks, among many others. Google itself makes plenty of gadgets that incorporate Google Assistant and Google Home , but you’ll find an even longer list of third-party products that are designed around the powerful assistant.
Thermostats Lighting Cameras Switches and Plugs Security and Locks Hubs AV Appliances Here’s a list of various smart-home categories, each with a number of recommendations for the best products that are Google Assistant-compatible.
Thermostats Image used with permission by copyright holder Connect Google Home to your smart thermostat to control the temperature and other settings with your voice. One of our favorite offerings in the world of climate control is the fantastic Ecobee SmartThermostat.
 With Alexa already built in, this is a great investment for Amazon fans, but just as strong a choice for Google Assistant households. The included SmartSensor automatically adjusts room temp based on total occupancy, and installation is a cinch.
Best robot mops of 2023 The best holiday smart lights The best outdoor security cameras of 2023 The Honeywell Color thermostat is another solid option. It’s aesthetically pleasing in your home, and once you link your Honeywell Total Connect Comfort account to Google Home, you can use your voice to adjust the temperature, ask how cool or warm it is in the house, and more. The Honeywell Color will also provide you with alerts like air filter change reminders and high and low-temperature warnings.
If you want a thermostat that learns and adjusts to your lifestyle, the Nest Learning Thermostat is another great pick. It figures out how you like your home temperature settings, and adjusts itself accordingly. You can also read the display from across the room. If you connect it to Google Home, you can use your voice to make it cooler, warmer, set a specific temperature, and more.
Lighting Philips If you connect your Philips Hue lights to Google Assistant, you can do more than just switch the lights on and off. You can also ask Google if you left the lights on, adjust dimming, change colors in certain rooms, sync your lights, and set scenes (like “concentrate” or “tropical twilight”). You have a variety of Hue options to choose from including light strips, individual bulbs, white bulbs, and multicolor bulbs. Keep in mind, unless you get a starter kit (which includes everything you need), you’ll also need to buy a bridge.
Sengled’s Element series has a lot to offer too. You can connect your Sengled Element lights to Google Assistant using an Element hub. You can also connect bulbs directly to an Echo Plus, SmartThings, or Wink smart home hub. If you have the Element Hub, you can do things like turn lights on and off, dim, and set schedules. You can also choose between a variety of dim white and multicolor bulbs.
Cameras Image used with permission by copyright holder We used to recommend the Wyze Cam 2, but now that the Wyze Cam v3 is available, it’s become one of our new favorites. Clocking in at just $36, this tiny device can be used indoors or outdoors, captures HD video, and offers color night vision.
Or you could stick with Google’s own Nest devices. The Nest Cam is a reliable indoor cam that’s great for simple surveillance and guaranteed to work with Home/Nest. There are also outdoor versions of this camera if you want to expand your security options. Or you could combine security and door monitoring with the Nest Doorbell , which pulls double-duty as a camera and doorbell.
Switches and Plugs Image used with permission by copyright holder You can find tons of smart light switches on Amazon these days, and many of them don’t even require a hub. The TP-Link HS200 works with Google Assistant, and you can set schedules to automatically turn on and off your lights while you’re home or away.
In the market for a smart plug? The Belkin WeMo Mini Wi-Fi Smart Plug is affordable, easy to set up, and it lets you control your lights and appliances using your voice. There is also no hub or subscription required.
Security and Locks Image used with permission by copyright holder Retrofitting with your existing lock, August Smart Lock lets you lock your door with your voice via Google Home. The lock bolt shuts automatically and unlocks when you approach. It also has DoorSense, which can tell you if your door is securely closed and locked. Want to let a repair person into your home? You can let someone have access for a few weeks, a few hours, or even a few minutes.
The Nest X Yale Lock is a key‑free deadbolt with a keypad. Sleek in its design, the Nest X Yale Lock works with Google Assistant. You can use your voice to lock the door, or check and see if the door is locked. Your Nest camera will also work with Google Home. You can tell Google Home to play your Nest cam’s live video on a TV with Chromecast.
Google Home also works with your Vivint Home Security System.
 You can say things like, “Hey Google, arm my system to (stay or away).” or “Hey Google, is my system armed?” Hubs Image used with permission by copyright holder Having a smart hub takes your smart home to the next level. It makes it so you can centralize all of your smart home products , instead of controlling a bunch of devices through several different apps. Some devices require a hub to even work.
Samsung SmartThings Hub 3rd Generation grants access to a veritable pantheon of devices. (You can find a comprehensive list here ). It makes your devices work in harmony, so you can set routines that fit your individual lifestyle. For instance, your “good morning” routine could turn on the lights, adjust the thermostat, and turn on the TV. Like SmartThings, Wink’s Hub 2 works with lots of products, so items from different manufacturers can seamlessly work together.
You can also take advantage of IFTTT, which is another way to get all your apps and devices talking to each other. If you don’t know what IFTTT is and how it works, check out our rundown here.
 Once you’re familiar with the free online service , you’ll see it offers all sorts of neat features such as turning on the heat when you leave the office or starting your coffee when your head leaves the pillow. It’s a little confusing at first, but you’ll start using recipes like a pro in no time.
Of course, you could also pick up any of the smart speakers or smart displays in the Google Nest lineup. It’s hard to go wrong with any of them, but the Google Nest Hub Max is arguably the best option, featuring a massive touchscreen, built-in webcam, and the ability to pump out impressive sounds.
AV Image used with permission by copyright holder Google Assistant can also really enrich your next at-home music or cinema experience. For starters, there’s the famous Google Chromecast that lets you cast a video to your TV from some of our favorite streaming apps like Netflix, YouTube, and Amazon Prime. Once connected, you can use your Chromecast’s built-in Assistant to check news, weather, and sports, as well as what’s new on Google-owned YouTube.
For big cinema-sound, the Bose Soundbar 500 has both Google Assistant and Alexa on board. Audio is rich and deep, and voice commands can easily be heard with the bar’s eight mics, even in loud settings.
For straight-up jams, consider picking up the Sonos One.
 In terms of sound quality and ease of use, Sonos always delivers. With features like Auto-Tuning, which calibrates your speaker based on room acoustics, and the sleek and friendly Sonos App for iOS and Android, you really can’t go wrong.
Appliances Image used with permission by copyright holder Google Assistant fully supports multiple commercial appliance brands like iRobot, Shark, Frigidaire, LG, and plenty of others. Chefs and bakers can connect their KitchenAid Electric Smart Oven to their Google Assistant for additional assistance with keeping track of their meals, regulating temperatures, and even switching off the oven. You can save your beloved recipes to your stove’s digital storage for future hands-free and paperless retrieval. Google Assistant can aid you with countless other valuable and convenient kitchen tools such as the Anova Sous Vide Precision Cooker.
 You can utilize voice controls to start and end cooking, set timers, moderate temperatures, and control the current temp too.
You can employ Google to support you as you take on your next load of laundry as well. Users can pair Google Assistant with the LG Smart Top Load Washer to manage various functions, including everything from the beginning and ending wash cycles, selecting the type of cycle you need, making mid-cycle modifications, and even discovering resolutions to hardware problems.
Editors' Recommendations The 11 best smart home products that support Matter The best smart home devices for 2023 The best video doorbells for 2023 Echo Pop vs. HomePod (Gen 2): is the HomePod worth its added cost? The best smart displays for 2023 Buying Guides Buying Guides Google Google Nest Smart Home Indoor security cameras have a host of uses around a home or business. They can watch for intruders, keep an eye on pets, serve as baby monitors, help guide guests, and generally be on the lookout for anything unusual. If you’re interested in an indoor cam that can do it all, these are the top smart options from the best brands on the market! Smart Home For many people the day is best kicked off with a nice cup of coffee. If you’re one of these people, not only do we have a great cup of coffee in store for you, but also some savings. Many of the best coffee makers often see discounts, and that’s certainly the case with one of the best names in coffee makers: Keurig. There are quite a few Keurig coffee makers seeing major price drops right now, including several in consideration for the best Keurig coffee makers. We’ve done the heavy lifting of tracking them all down, so read onward for more details on how to save on a Keurig coffee maker, and for more information on which Keurig coffee maker may be best for you.
Keurig K-Mini coffee maker — $50, was $100 The Keurig K-Mini single serve coffee maker is a stylish coffee maker that looks good in any kitchen or break room. It suits smaller spaces particularly well, as it’s less than five inches wide. Despite its smaller size, it’s still fully capable. It can brew any cup size between 6-12 ounces, and it’s able to brew coffee, tea, cocoa, and even iced beverages. The Keurig K-Mini single serve coffee maker has easy cord storage for transport and tidying up your countertop after use, and an energy efficiency feature turns the coffee maker off automatically 90 seconds after your last brew.
Smart Home A cordless vacuum is becoming a necessity for most families as it's one of the easiest ways of cleaning your home. These machines will allow you to move from room to room without having to unplug each time, and they'll also let you reach every nook and cranny. If you think it's time to buy one, we've gathered some of the best cordless vacuum deals below, including Dyson cordless vacuums and cheaper alternatives. You'll have to act fast though, as we don't think these discounts will last for long.
Black+Decker Powerseries+ 16V Max -- $89, was $100 Black+Decker Powerseries+ 16V Max works great on all floor types, and you don't have to activate any special modes to make it happen. It has an auto-detect function that automatically adjusts suction power when you switch surfaces. It has an LED light to help you see crumbs on the ground, and an anti-tangle brush bar to deal with pet hair. The cordless vacuum also has a freestanding design, meaning it will balance on the floor attachment without leaning on a wall, making it easy to store.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
