Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Share Wi-Fi Password on iPhone How to Restart iPhone Screen Record on iPhone Back Up an iPhone Clear Cache on iPhone Share Location on iPhone Home Mobile Guides How to replace Siri with ChatGPT on your iPhone By Christine Romero-Chan Close AI is all the rage these days, with ChatGPT seemingly taking over the world. No matter where you turn or look, there’s something about AI or ChatGPT being discussed online.
How to get a ChatGPT shortcut working on your iPhone How to link your ChatGPT shortcut to Back Tap How to enable and use your ChatGPT shortcut Difficulty Duration What You Need An iPhone An OpenAI account Siri Shortcuts app Regardless of where you stand on the AI thing, there’s no doubt that it can be very useful, depending on how it’s utilized. But if there’s one thing for certain, it’s that Siri is quite embarrassing compared to other digital assistants, especially when you compare it to things like ChatGPT. Thankfully, there is a way to replace Siri on your iPhone of choice, like the iPhone 14 Pro , with ChatGPT -- and we’re going to show you how.
How to get a ChatGPT shortcut working on your iPhone Before you can get ChatGPT working on your iPhone, you’re going to need an OpenAI account. You can make an account for free on the OpenAI website. Once you do that, you're ready to move on to the next steps.
Step 1: Go to https://platform.openai.com on your iPhone web browser, then either create an account or login to an existing account.
Step 2: Select the hamburger menu in the upper-right corner to bring up a menu, then select your account.
It’s finally happening — your iPhone is getting RCS in 2024 How to unblock a number on your iPhone iOS 17: How to move notifications to the top of your lock screen Step 3: Select View API keys.
Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends Step 4: Select Create new secret key.
Step 5: Copy the API key you just generated.
Step 6: Go to Yue-Yang’s Github page on your iPhone.
Step 7: Scroll down and select ChatGPT Siri 1.2.2 (English Version).
Step 8: Tapping the link will automatically launch Shortcuts, so make sure that you are doing all of this on your iPhone. Select Set Up Shortcut.
Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends Step 9: Paste your OpenAI API key into the text field when the Configure This Shortcut screen pops up.
Step 10: Select Add Shortcut.
Step 11: In the Shortcuts app, tap and hold on the ChatGPT 1.2.2 tile, then choose Rename.
 We'd recommend a simpler name, like “Smart Siri,” because otherwise, Siri just won’t understand what you’re trying to do. Once you rename it, just say, ”Hey Siri, [Renamed Shortcut]”.
Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends How to link your ChatGPT shortcut to Back Tap A very useful Accessibility feature in iOS is Back Tap, which lets you do either a double tap or triple tap on the back of your iPhone to bring up a system feature, accessibility feature, or even a shortcut — like your new ChatGPT shortcut.
Step 1: Launch Settings on your iPhone.
Step 2: Select Accessibility.
Step 3: Select Touch.
Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends Step 4: Scroll down and select Back Tap.
Step 5: Choose either Double Tap or Triple Tap.
Step 6: Scroll down until you see Shortcuts , then select your ChatGPT shortcut to link it to your chosen Back Tap option.
Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends How to enable and use your ChatGPT shortcut Now that you have set up your ChatGPT shortcut, how do you enable and use it? It’s easy! Step 1: Say ”Hey Siri, [ChatGPT shortcut]”.
 Again, you should rename this to something simpler that Siri can understand, because if you keep it as the default “ChatGPT 1.2.2” name, Siri just won’t understand (I tried).
Step 2: Press and hold the side button on your iPhone to bring up Siri, then say your ChatGPT shortcut name to run it.
Step 3: Double or triple tap the back of your iPhone if you linked the shortcut to a Back Tap.
Step 4: Once you run the ChatGPT shortcut, just give it a prompt and it will give you a result. Do keep in mind that the answer will only stay on screen for a very brief moment, so you’d better take some quick screenshots before the answer disappears. We couldn’t figure out a way to view the chat transcript, and ChatGPT does not keep a record. For lengthier chats and information, we recommend using a computer web browser so you can retain the full chat log of a session.
Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends As you can see, it's useful to have ChatGPT on your iPhone, but it's not perfect. It can certainly be more useful than Siri, that's for sure, but don't expect to be able to go back and check the chat logs. We recommend using ChatGPT when you need quick answers to things, but if you need lengthier, more in-depth answers, then it's probably still best to use a desktop browser.
Editors' Recommendations It looks like the iPhone 16 will get a big design upgrade How I use my Apple Watch and iPhone to manage my diabetes The iPhone is getting out of control One of our favorite Android phones just got its own iMessage app This iPhone 15 and iPhone 14 camera test is closer than I expected Apple Apple iPhone Artificial Intelligence How-To Guides Mobile The iPhone has so many clever and fun little features that it's easy to miss some of them. One of the most whimsical features to come along in recent years is the ability to lift the subject of a photo away from the background so you can use it elsewhere — whether that's sharing it in an email, pasting it into a photo editing app, or even turning it into an iMessage sticker in iOS 17.
What's especially fascinating about this is that it seems like such a simple thing to do — and Apple does make it really easy — but there's a ton of number crunching going on under the hood to make it happen. This means you'll need an iPhone with a reasonably modern processor, but the good news is that it doesn't have to be the latest and greatest iPhone 15 Pro. While the insanely powerful A17 Pro chip in Apple's flagship smartphone surely helps things along, this feature can be used on any iPhone with an A12 Bionic chip or later, which goes back to the 2018 iPhone XS and iPhone XR.
Mobile I’ve been using an iPhone ever since 2008, starting with the original and then every generation since. For several years, the iPhone was only capable of SMS texting, with MMS support arriving with iOS 3 in 2009.
But in 2011, Apple created something new: iMessage. It first arrived on iOS and then went to the Mac in 2012 to replace iChat. iMessage is basically an instant messaging service that is exclusive to all Apple products: iPhone, iPad, Apple Watch, and Mac. You can send text, images and video, documents, rich preview links, stickers, and more between one another. You can also see if a message is delivered, send read receipts (if you want), and everything is encrypted. With iOS 16, you can even edit and unsend messages within a certain time frame.
Mobile iOS 17 is the latest version of Apple's mobile operating software, and as usual, it's brought with it plenty of new features and changes to get excited about. While not the biggest update around (it's telling when one of the major changes mentioned is the ability to send your contact information by AirDrop), iOS 17 is still worth paying attention to and getting if you have a compatible iPhone.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
