Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Share Wi-Fi Password on iPhone How to Restart iPhone Screen Record on iPhone Back Up an iPhone Clear Cache on iPhone Share Location on iPhone Home Mobile Guides How to use ChatGPT on your iPhone and Android phone By Mark Jansen and Jesse Hollington Close While it may not quite be an all-knowing, all-seeing companion, AI has advanced in leaps and bounds in the last few years. AI chatbots have recently come into the spotlight, thanks largely to the emergence of ChatGPT -- a chatbot from OpenAI, the creators of the incredible DALL-E 2 AI image generator.
How to use ChatGPT on your iPhone How to use ChatGPT on your Android phone The best ChatGPT iPhone apps The best ChatGPT Android apps Difficulty Duration What You Need iPhone or Android smartphone AI chatbots are a lot of fun to play with, and they can create everything from poetry to new episodes of long-canceled TV shows. If you're looking to try out ChatGPT on your iPhone , the good news is that there's now an official ChatGPT app for Apple's mobile devices. A version for Android phones is also in the works; it's not here yet, but there's still a way to access ChatGPT on your Android device. There are some other similar apps you can play with on both platforms too.
Joe Maring / Digital Trends How to use ChatGPT on your iPhone OpenAI has released an official ChatGPT app, which is by far the best way to access the chatbot from your iPhone. Sadly, it's only available in the U.S. App Store for now, although it's expected to come to additional countries soon.
Step 1: Head over to the App Store and search for ChatGPT — The official app by OpenAI and select Get to download and install it on your iPhone.
Jesse Hollington / Digital Trends Step 2: Once it's installed, open the ChatGPT app.
It’s finally happening — your iPhone is getting RCS in 2024 How to unblock a number on your iPhone iOS 17: How to move notifications to the top of your lock screen Step 3: The first time you use the ChatGPT app, you'll need to either sign into an existing account or create a new one.
If you've previously used ChatGPT through a web browser, select Log in and follow the instructions in the in-app browser.
Jesse Hollington / Digital Trends Step 4: If you've never used ChatGPT before, select one of the sign-in options to use your Apple ID, Google account, or sign up with an email address and password.
When signing up for the first time, you'll need to enter your first and last name, date of birth, and a mobile phone number where an SMS text message can be sent to verify your account. While it's easiest to use your iPhone's number, this isn't strictly required — you can use any number that's recognized as a mobile number and capable of receiving SMS texts.
You may need to use an alternate number in some cases, as ChatGPT blocks those that it thinks are virtual phone numbers, VoIP numbers, or landline numbers. It's somewhat ironic for an AI Bot, but the database of numbers it uses isn't entirely accurate; if your iPhone's number isn't being accepted by ChatGPT, you may need to try a different number belonging to a friend or family member and enter the code from there. If all else fails, you can try some of the some third-party ChatGPT apps we discuss later on, most of which don't need you to verify your phone number with Open AI.
Jesse Hollington / Digital Trends Step 5: Once you've confirmed your mobile number, you'll be taken back to the main chat screen. Select the Message field at the bottom to bring up the keyboard and begin typing a message to the chatbot as you would in most other messaging apps.
Jesse Hollington / Digital Trends Step 6: When ready, select the up arrow button to send your message to ChatGPT and wait for its response.
Alternatively, you can choose the small waveform button in the message field to dictate your message using your voice. This is similar in concept to the iPhone's built-in Dictation feature but uses Open AI's Whisper neural net for the text-to-speech analysis rather than Apple's.
The ChatGPT iPhone app isn't perfect , but if you want the official ChatGPT experience on your iPhone, it's still the way to go.
Sanket Mishra / Pexels How to use ChatGPT on your Android phone As mentioned, there's no official ChatGPT app on Android just yet, but it's coming. For now, though, you can access the ChatGPT website through your internet browser instead.
Step 1: Head to the OpenAI website.
Step 2: If it's your first time here, sign up for an account. Otherwise, log in.
Step 3: If you're signing up, you'll need to use a mobile phone number to authenticate your account, so make sure you have one on hand. As we noted earlier, you can't use a virtual phone number, VoIP number, or landline number, and ChatGPT may get this wrong, so if your primary phone number doesn't work, try asking a friend or family member if you can borrow their number to verify that you're a human. Alternatively, you can try one of the ChatGPT apps we've rounded up in the next section, as many of these don't require the same level of user verification — or any at all in some cases.
Step 4: Once signed up or logged in, get started by typing a question. The homepage offers some suggestions, but feel free to explore and even ask ChatGPT what it can do.
Joe Maring/Digital Trends The best ChatGPT iPhone apps Even though ChatGPT is now officially available on the App Store, it's still a pretty bare bones experience. If you're looking for more features, there's a wealth of other apps that leverage ChatGPT's excellent capabilities that are worth a look. Here are some of the best.
Genie - AI Chatbot Genie is one of the strongest iOS ChatGPT options because, well, it's absolutely laden down with features. You can ask it to do almost anything, from identifying pictures, writing anything you ask it to, and even summarizing PDF files or web pages. It's an incredible piece of tech, and it's one of the few to have access to GPT-4 , giving it those advanced image and file recognition abilities.
Unfortunately, that means it doesn't come cheap. Free users only get five questions (known as "wishes") per day. If you want more than that, you're going to need to subscribe. Those subscriptions don't come cheap either, so if you're wanting more than five wishes a day, you're going to have to pay for them.
ChatOn - AI Chatbot Assistant ChatOn is a little basic when compared to some other options, and it eschews some of the ChatGPT mainstays you'll see on other apps — like the dark, neon color schemes and scrolling text effect — but it delivers in features. ChatOn can do your usual chatbot duties, but it can also pretend to be a sarcastic buddy, create inspirational quotes, and any one of a number of different options.
However, it doesn't come completely free, and unlimited use will cost you, with plans starting from $7 a month. It's not quite as polished as other apps, and we found some of the modes not to work particularly well, but it's still a fun option and cheaper than similar apps.
Perplexity - Ask Anything Perplexity is one we've covered ourselves, and it's probably our favorite of the ChatGPT options on iPhone.
 Not only is it extremely simple to use — just download and go, no need to sign in — but it also tells you where it pulled the information from, and, most importantly, it's completely free as well. Yes, there's no subscription cost at all, which puts it head and shoulders above so many other iOS ChatGPT apps.
1.
Nova 2.
ChatSonic The best ChatGPT Android apps The Google Play Store doesn't yet host an official ChatGPT app. However, some apps offer similar abilities, and most use the ChatGPT architecture anyway. Here are some good Android alternatives to play with: Nova - ChatGPT AI Chatbot It's ChatGPT, but with a prettier interface and available in an app form. That's largely all that needs to be said about it, but we'd be lying if we didn't mention that it does it very well. The neon color scheme fits the futuristic aspect of AI chatbots, and the scrolling appearance of text makes it feel like you're chatting with a real person. We found it relatively fast and reliable, though some reviews complain of issues with crashing on more complex questions.
Unfortunately, it does come with a subscription for unlimited access. A subscription starts from $8 a month and gets you unlimited questions and answers, access to the GPT-3.5 Turbo model, and chat history.
ChatSonic: Super ChatGPT App ChatSonic may be powered by ChatGPT, but it claims to be the only GPT-powered chatbot to surpass its benefactor. Not only does it link up to ChatGPT for test-based inquiries, but it also generates images through DALL-E and can take part in a spoken conversation like Google Assistant.
 Bringing these separate services together into a single service is likely the future of AI, but ChatSonic has beaten everyone to the punch.
Like Nova above, though, ChatSonic has limitations. You're limited to a certain number of words in questions and answers per month, and you'll need to pay to get a higher word number. The subscription starts at $10 per month for 40,000 words, and it'll get pretty expensive if you're wanting more than that. Even worse, using it during peak times can cost double the words. So while ChatSonic can do a lot, it asks a lot too.
Bing - Your AI copilot Okay, so this one isn't ChatGPT-powered — but it's worth downloading and playing with, especially if you're butting up against the free limitations of other apps. Bing, the search engine no one uses, now comes with an AI chatbot, and it has some fun additions you won't find on ChatGPT. For instance, you can set it to be more creative, more precise, or a balanced mix between the two. As a result, you can get some wacky answers or some more accurate ones. You'll need to sign in to a Microsoft account and join a waitlist to access Bing's AI capabilities , but we found we were already allowed access when we signed in.
Editors' Recommendations It looks like the iPhone 16 will get a big design upgrade How I use my Apple Watch and iPhone to manage my diabetes The iPhone is getting out of control One of our favorite Android phones just got its own iMessage app This iPhone 15 and iPhone 14 camera test is closer than I expected Android Apple Apple iPhone Artificial Intelligence Google How-To Guides Mobile The iPhone has so many clever and fun little features that it's easy to miss some of them. One of the most whimsical features to come along in recent years is the ability to lift the subject of a photo away from the background so you can use it elsewhere — whether that's sharing it in an email, pasting it into a photo editing app, or even turning it into an iMessage sticker in iOS 17.
What's especially fascinating about this is that it seems like such a simple thing to do — and Apple does make it really easy — but there's a ton of number crunching going on under the hood to make it happen. This means you'll need an iPhone with a reasonably modern processor, but the good news is that it doesn't have to be the latest and greatest iPhone 15 Pro. While the insanely powerful A17 Pro chip in Apple's flagship smartphone surely helps things along, this feature can be used on any iPhone with an A12 Bionic chip or later, which goes back to the 2018 iPhone XS and iPhone XR.
Mobile Duolingo is a top-rated language-learning app known for its unique approach to learning. Unlike similar solutions, Duolingo makes learning fun and engaging by turning each step into a game. Whether using the app on your iPhone or Android, you can choose from over 30 languages to learn. Adding another language to your account is easy once you are ready to move on to the next one.
Mobile I’ve been using an iPhone ever since 2008, starting with the original and then every generation since. For several years, the iPhone was only capable of SMS texting, with MMS support arriving with iOS 3 in 2009.
But in 2011, Apple created something new: iMessage. It first arrived on iOS and then went to the Mac in 2012 to replace iChat. iMessage is basically an instant messaging service that is exclusive to all Apple products: iPhone, iPad, Apple Watch, and Mac. You can send text, images and video, documents, rich preview links, stickers, and more between one another. You can also see if a message is delivered, send read receipts (if you want), and everything is encrypted. With iOS 16, you can even edit and unsend messages within a certain time frame.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
