Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Share Wi-Fi Password on iPhone How to Restart iPhone Screen Record on iPhone Back Up an iPhone Clear Cache on iPhone Share Location on iPhone Home Mobile Features Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? I found a huge problem with the new ChatGPT iPhone app By Joe Maring Close Joe Maring / Digital Trends Seemingly out of nowhere, OpenAI released its official ChatGPT iOS app this week. Available for both iPhones and iPads, the free app allows you to use the popular AI chatbot in a much simpler, easier way than ever before. No more messing with the mobile website or trying to fiddle with uncertain third-party apps — just download the official ChatGPT application, and you’re good to go.
The ChatGPT iPhone app’s biggest limitation No internet access isn’t the only problem More options are never a bad thing It’s a big step forward to make ChatGPT more accessible and to get it into the hands of more people. Naturally, I was curious to test it out for myself. I’ve been using the ChatGPT iPhone app to ask the chatbot various questions, and while the whole thing works just like you’d expect, there’s one big, glaring problem that makes me never want to touch the app again.
The ChatGPT iPhone app’s biggest limitation ChatGPT (left) vs. Perplexity AI (right) Digital Trends Similar to using ChatGPT on a desktop, the ChatGPT iPhone app can’t access current, real-time information. If you try asking the chatbot about a current event or a topic that’s happened in the last couple of years, you’ll see a message that reads, “As an AI language model, I don’t have real-time information or access to the internet beyond my September 2021 knowledge cutoff.” This has been a known limitation of ChatGPT since its inception, but in a world where competing apps like Google Bard and Microsoft’s Bing Chat do offer internet access — and have done so for some time now — going back to ChatGPT and being hit with that restriction quickly reeled in my expectations.
Perplexity AI (left) vs. ChatGPT (right) Digital Trends OpenAI does offer internet access with its $20/month ChatGPT Plus subscription, and you can use ChatGPT Plus features like GPT-4 in the iPhone app. However, as Ars Technica reports , internet access/browsing doesn’t appear to be supported in the current version of the app.
In other words, even if you’re paying $20/month for ChatGPT Plus, you can forget about getting real-time, up-to-date answers about any current topics. That’s likely to change at some point in the future, but it certainly doesn’t create a good first impression — especially with other iPhone chatbot apps already offering it for free.
Using an AI chatbot to surf the web is my personal favorite way to interact with one, and the official ChatGPT iPhone app doesn’t let me do that. But you know what does? Bing Chat, Google Bard , and third-party iPhone ChatGPT apps like Perplexity AI.
No internet access isn’t the only problem Previous Next 1 2 ChatGPT Digital Trends Perplexity AI Digital Trends While the lack of internet access is the biggest problem for the ChatGPT iPhone app, it’s not the only one. Even when asking more basic and less timely questions, I’ve found some of ChatGPT’s replies to be … lackluster.
Take, for example, the above query. I asked ChatGPT how long canned tomatoes are good for, and it provided me with multiple paragraphs of rich, detailed information. However, when asking Perplexity AI the same question, I get a much more visually-appealing answer with well-used bullet points. It’s far easier to digest and feels more natural than the walls of text ChatGPT shoved in my face. There were some instances where I preferred ChatGPT’s answer over Perplexity AI, but in general, I prefer Perplexity’s approach to things.
Joe Maring/Digital Trends There’s another thing the ChatGPT iPhone app doesn’t know how to do, and that’s how to cite the sources it’s getting its answers from. The ChatGPT app will happily try its best to answer any question you throw at it, but there’s no indication of the sources it’s using for any given answer.
Bing Chat, Google Bard, Perplexity AI, and other apps do a much better job at this. Perplexity AI, for example, provides in-text links to sources throughout its answers, in addition to showing a source breakdown at the end of each answer.
Every AI chatbot makes mistakes , so being able to see where a correct or incorrect answer came from is extremely helpful.
More options are never a bad thing Image used with permission by copyright holder To the ChatGPT app’s credit, using AI chatbots as a search engine with internet access is just one of many ways they can be used. But given that’s how I prefer using them, the current implementation of the ChatGPT iPhone app leaves a lot to be desired. It is a far more enjoyable experience than having to open Safari and use the mobile site, but there’s also still plenty of work to be done.
But that’s also the beauty of how many AI chatbots are available today. If you also want a chatbot with free and straightforward internet access, apps like Bing Chat, Google Bard, and Perplexity AI aren’t going anywhere. And if you’re a ChatGPT loyalist, you now have a much better way to use it on your iPhone and iPad.
I may not be returning to the ChatGPT iPhone app any time soon, but if you don’t need internet access and just want a simpler way to get ChatGPT on your phone, it’s about the best way to do so.
You can download the ChatGPT app now from the App Store.
Editors' Recommendations It looks like the iPhone 16 will get a big design upgrade How I use my Apple Watch and iPhone to manage my diabetes One of our favorite Android phones just got its own iMessage app 4 AI features I want in my next iPhone I figured out how to protect my iPhone without an ugly case Apple Apple iPhone Apps Artificial Intelligence Features Mobile It could take a while before Android phones allow satellite connectivity to assist users in emergency scenarios, thanks in no part to Qualcomm canceling its ambitious Snapdragon Satellite plans. Apple introduced satellite SOS support last year with the iPhone 14 series, with the intention of helping people when they are out of cellular or broadband coverage range.
The feature allows you to text emergency responders, share locations, and request roadside assistance. But not long after, hope emerged for Android phones. Earlier this year, Qualcomm announced Snapdragon Satellite, with the goal of aping Apple’s initiative for Android phones.
Mobile iPhone 14 Plus (left) and iPhone 15 Plus Andy Boxall / Digital Trends If you’re reading this article, chances are high that you keep pretty up-to-date with modern technology, including smartphones like Apple’s iPhone. You may upgrade your phone every few years, or — if you’re like me — you might even upgrade every year.
Mobile The iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro Max have an all-new titanium body, which is the standout feature from a design perspective. However, another hardware-related feature that's even more noteworthy for these models — and future iPhones over time — is the new Action button.
The Action button replaces the ring/silent switch on the left side of the iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro Max. You can assign one shortcut to the button through the Settings app, such as activating and using the Camera app or turning on the phone's flashlight. To assign the button, go into the Settings app on your supported iPhone. From there, choose the Action Button, then toggle to your selection. It's that simple.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
