Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Share Wi-Fi Password on iPhone How to Restart iPhone Screen Record on iPhone Back Up an iPhone Clear Cache on iPhone Share Location on iPhone Home Mobile Features Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? I just found the perfect ChatGPT iPhone app, and it’s free By Joe Maring Close Stop me if you’ve heard this one before: ChatGPT is huge right now. After exploding in popularity in late 2022, the AI chatbot has been on an enormous rise, with no sign of slowing down. One of the ways we’ve seen ChatGPT expand is its continued integration into smartphone apps. Whether it’s Bing Chat coming to mobile or a ChatGPT iPhone keyboard , it’s all been fascinating to watch unfold.
Getting started with Perplexity AI This is ChatGPT as it should be Know where your answers are coming from I think I’m a ChatGPT believer One of the latest ChatGPT mobile apps to hit the scene is one called “Perplexity AI,” which is an iPhone app that brings ChatGPT directly to your smartphone — no need for a web browser. And it does so with a sleek interface, helpful features, and zero ads. Best of all? It’s 100% free to use. I’ve been playing with the app on my iPhone 14 Pro for about a day now, and I’m seriously impressed with what I’m seeing.
Getting started with Perplexity AI Joe Maring/Digital Trends What makes Perplexity AI so good? It all starts with how simple the app is to use. After downloading it from the App Store, you’re ready to start using it instantly. You don’t have to make an account or pay anything — just download Perplexity AI and start asking it questions.
How I use my Apple Watch and iPhone to manage my diabetes One of our favorite Android phones just got its own iMessage app I love Apple, but it’s totally wrong about iMessage and RCS The top of the app shows popular search terms that other Perplexity AI users are searching for. As you use the app, you’ll see a collection of your own search history toward the bottom.
When you’re ready to ask a question, you have two options: tap the Ask anything button to write a prompt with your keyboard, or tap the microphone icon to use your voice. Like other ChatGPT applications, you can ask Perplexity AI whatever comes to mind. Looking for the best restaurants in your area? Wondering what the best time of year is to visit Italy? Need a recipe for the best brownies ever? No matter what’s on your mind, chances are Perplexity AI has an answer for you.
This is ChatGPT as it should be Joe Maring/Digital Trends How is any of this different from Bing Chat and other ChatGPT applications? While the core functionality is the same, Perplexity AI does a few interesting things that really make it stand out from the crowd.
For starters, the app is incredibly sleek in all the right ways. The interface is clean and simple without any unnecessary cruft. Tapping the search bar or using your voice to ask a question results in lovely animations. And most important of all, the speed at which Perplexity AI gives you an answer is really impressive. In my testing, most questions get a response within a second or two. More complicated questions can result in a longer response time, but the app never feels sluggish.
Joe Maring/Digital Trends Another highlight for Perplexity AI over other ChatGPT apps is how it can help you dig deeper into a search. After the app answers a question, you’ll see a Related section below it with other recommended questions to ask. For example, after I asked “ What’s a good brownie recipe that’s also dairy free?” the app recommended other questions like “Which recipe has the best reviews?” and “Can the recipe be made gluten-free ?” That also ties into another aspect of Perplexity AI, which is its ability to understand the context of a question. Let’s say I start a new search and ask “Did the Galaxy S23 Ultra get good reviews?” I can then ask the follow-up question “What’s the battery life?” I don’t need to explicitly mention the Galaxy S23 Ultra again. Perplexity AI already knows I’m talking about the S23 Ultra and remembers that bit of information. It makes the experience much more conversational and approachable than other ChatGPT apps I’ve used, and it all works shockingly well.
Know where your answers are coming from Joe Maring/Digital Trends There’s one other huge aspect of Perplexity AI, and that’s its ability to clearly show where its answers are coming from.
After each answer you get, Perplexity AI shows all of the sources that it pulled its response from. If you want a closer look, you can tap the View List button to see a breakdown of each article Perplexity AI looked at and tap on it to read the sourced article directly in the app.
No ChatGPT application is perfect , even with advancements being made in GPT-4 and GPT-5.
 AI chatbots make mistakes, as we’ve clearly seen over and over again. But by clearly highlighting sources directly in the app, Perplexity AI removes any lingering doubts you may have about a response you get. Not even the official ChatGPT website clearly marks its sources, and the approach here is more visible and apparent than how Bing Chat handles sourcing. It may seem like a small feature to some people, but it’s allowed me to trust Perplexity AI far more than the regular ChatGPT site — and that’s a big deal.
I think I’m a ChatGPT believer Joe Maring/Digital Trends Up until this point, I’ve never found myself particularly excited about ChatGPT. The technology is impressive, yes, but it’s always felt a bit cumbersome and awkward. Bing Chat is baked right into the Bing app, but it’s surrounded by a load of other Bing features I just don’t care about. There are plenty of third-party ChatGPT apps on the App Store, but almost all of them require some kind of in-app purchase. And while you can replace Siri with ChatGPT on your iPhone , there are a few more steps involved than I care to make.
Perplexity AI solves all of that for me. The interface is simple, it’s free, and all you need to get started is to download and open the app. I’m not sure any of that will make me a ChatGPT superfan, but this is the first time I’ve found a ChatGPT app that I actually enjoy and want to keep using. And I think that’s mighty impressive.
Perplexity AI is available to download now on the App Store.
Editors' Recommendations It looks like the iPhone 16 will get a big design upgrade The iPhone is getting out of control This iPhone 15 and iPhone 14 camera test is closer than I expected 4 AI features I want in my next iPhone I figured out how to protect my iPhone without an ugly case Apple Apple iPhone Apps Artificial Intelligence Features Mobile It could take a while before Android phones allow satellite connectivity to assist users in emergency scenarios, thanks in no part to Qualcomm canceling its ambitious Snapdragon Satellite plans. Apple introduced satellite SOS support last year with the iPhone 14 series, with the intention of helping people when they are out of cellular or broadband coverage range.
The feature allows you to text emergency responders, share locations, and request roadside assistance. But not long after, hope emerged for Android phones. Earlier this year, Qualcomm announced Snapdragon Satellite, with the goal of aping Apple’s initiative for Android phones.
Mobile iPhone 14 Plus (left) and iPhone 15 Plus Andy Boxall / Digital Trends If you’re reading this article, chances are high that you keep pretty up-to-date with modern technology, including smartphones like Apple’s iPhone. You may upgrade your phone every few years, or — if you’re like me — you might even upgrade every year.
Mobile The iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro Max have an all-new titanium body, which is the standout feature from a design perspective. However, another hardware-related feature that's even more noteworthy for these models — and future iPhones over time — is the new Action button.
The Action button replaces the ring/silent switch on the left side of the iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro Max. You can assign one shortcut to the button through the Settings app, such as activating and using the Camera app or turning on the phone's flashlight. To assign the button, go into the Settings app on your supported iPhone. From there, choose the Action Button, then toggle to your selection. It's that simple.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
