Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: ChatGPT Alternatives ChatGPT on Slack ChatGPT on Mac ChatGPT Plus ChatGPT Detection ChatGPT 4 Bing Chat Google Bard Google Bard vs ChatGPT The best AI chatbots to try out: ChatGPT, Bard, and more ChatGPT vs Bing Chat Home Mobile News ChatGPT is coming to Snapchat to be your new AI BFF By Joe Maring Close Snapchat is best known as a popular social media app for sending photos/videos to friends and watching bad reality shows. But starting today, Snapchat also wants to be your go-to destination for ChatGPT.
 Yes, that’s right — the same ChatGPT technology that caused Bing Chat to declare it wanted to be human.
My AI brings ChatGPT to Snapchat How to use My AI on Snapchat Why bring ChatGPT to Snapchat in the first place? Per an announcement on the Snapchat Newsroom website, ChatGPT is coming to the Snapchat app in the form of the “My AI” chatbot. My AI will appear in the Snapchat app just like any of your other friends. You’ll find My AI on the Chat page, you can view its profile, look at its avatar, etc. At a glance, My AI looks like any of your other Snapchat friends.
My AI brings ChatGPT to Snapchat Snapchat Unlike your real human friends, however, My AI is a chatbot powered by ChatGPT. But Snapchat doesn’t want you to think about that too much. It’s presented My AI as another Snapchat friend because that’s how it wants you to interact with it. Snapchat says that My AI “can recommend birthday gift ideas for your BFF, plan a hiking trip for a long weekend, suggest a recipe for dinner, or even write a haiku about cheese for your cheddar-obsessed pal.” Snapchat hopes its new AI selfie feature will be a moneymaker ChatGPT’s iPhone app now has Bing built-in I found a huge problem with the new ChatGPT iPhone app Despite Snapchat’s special branding, My AI is essentially just a mobile version of ChatGPT tucked away in the Snapchat app. But it’s not exactly the same ChatGPT you can interact with on your desktop. According to The Verge , Snapchat has customized My AI’s responses to follow the app’s own trust and safety policies. Furthermore, none of My AI’s replies will include “swearing, violence, sexually explicit content, or opinions about dicey topics like politics.” But even with those added restrictions in place, Snapchat is well aware of how off-the-rails ChatGPT can be coerced into becoming – and says as much in its press release: “As with all AI-powered chatbots, My AI is prone to hallucination and can be tricked into saying just about anything. Please be aware of its many deficiencies and sorry in advance!” Snapchat is saving all My AI conversations and says they “may be reviewed to improve the product experience.” How to use My AI on Snapchat Joe Maring/Digital Trends It’s also important to note that Snapchat isn’t rolling out its ChatGPT-powered My AI to everyone.
While My AI is rolling out to Snapchat users today, it’s only available to those subscribed to Snapchat Plus — Snapchat’s optional $3.99 per month / $30 per year premium service. Considering ChatGPT’s Plus subscription costs $20 per month, it’s actually not a horrible value.
Snapchat says it eventually wants all Snapchat users to have access to My AI, but for now, Snapchat Plus members get the first go at it.
Why bring ChatGPT to Snapchat in the first place? Image used with permission by copyright holder All of that sounds great — but why? Why is Snapchat the latest destination for ChatGPT? Per Snap Inc. CEO Evan Spiegel, it’s all about getting people more comfortable talking with AI: “The big idea is that in addition to talking to our friends and family every day, we’re going to talk to AI every day. And this is something we’re well positioned to do as a messaging service.” The idea of talking to AI every day may sound ambitious at first, but when you step back and think about it, it really isn’t. Microsoft is pushing its ChatGPT-powered Bing service like crazy, Google has big plans for its Bard AI service , and Spotify recently announced new AI functionality that plays customized music for you.
Snapchat is just the latest frontier for ChatGPT, and it’d be silly to think it’s the last.
Editors' Recommendations I used an Android phone with ChatGPT built-in — and I loved it ChatGPT app arrives for Android, but there’s a catch Apple didn’t make Siri a ChatGPT killer at WWDC — and that scares me OpenAI’s new ChatGPT app is free for iPhone and iPad Forget ChatGPT — Siri and Google Assistant do these 4 things better Apps Artificial Intelligence Snapchat Tech News Mobile Showing up to a videoconference as your digital avatar can be quite fun. Apple lets you do just that with Memojis during FaceTime. If you want something more ambitious on a different platform, Avatarify will turn into Albert Einstien or Mona Lisa for Zoom calls. But what if you could bring an AI conversation to life? Say, by talking to ChatGPT as if OpenAI’s AI was a CGI person talking to you on a video call? Well, that’s now possible. Call Annie is an app that turns ChatGPT into Annie, a talking female avatar that doesn’t look like a glitchy visual mess. Developed by Animato.Ai, the app is currently exclusive to iOS 16, but you can also use it on macOS 13 machines with an M-series processor inside.
A ChatGPT-powered video call in action https://twitter.com/frantzfries/status/1651316031762071553?s=20 Another limitation is that you need at least the iPhone 12 or a later model to start a video call with Annie because the real-time conversion of linguistic prompts into visual cues draws power from Apple’s Neural Engine.
The app’s makers claim that talking to Annie “face-to-face in real time time feels more natural and faster than typing and reading text.” So far, the sample videos we have seen on social media, like the one above, show a fairly convincing video call interface.
Right now, Annie appears to be pretty good at holding a fluent conversation, even though the voice sounds robotic, and the phrase pausing could also use some work. The answers, however, are typical of the answers you would get while texting back-and-forth with ChatGPT. And given enough time and improved voice training, Call Annie interactions can become a lot more natural-sounding.
It all brings back memories of the sci-fi flick Her, in which Joaquin Phoenix’s character falls in love with one such AI. One user asked on Reddit whether Annie can have a “memory” system that will turn it into a smarter “friend,” to which the app developers replied with “soon.” https://twitter.com/jakedahn/status/1651285054591750144 This is only the beginning for Annie Users who have tried the app note that it occasionally flubs the pronunciation of words, but once corrected, it also learns right away. One user described this experience as “scary stuff.”Another issue it has is with pronouncing words in languages other than English, something that the developers are trying to fix.
Thanks to its ChatGPT smarts, the app’s developers say it can help you with everything from learning and web searches to serving as a tour guide or even a virtual companion. We don’t know if it’s as smart as other virtual partner apps like Replika, but considering the fact that Annie is based on ChatGPT (and its vast data training model), you can have a significantly deeper and fact-driven conversation with Annie.
Animato’s App Store description notes that the AI keeps all conversations “confidential” but hasn’t specified what kind of security measures have been put in place and whether it uses the user conversations for training and refining Annie’s systems.
Mobile I recently wrote about an app called Shortwave and its AI summarizer feature, which turns long, bland emails into short summaries with most of the core details intact. I've gotten used to that convenience to such an extent that I now want a summarized version of all the content that I read online, especially verbose news stories. By sheer luck, I came across the listing of a new app called Boring Report.
The app promises to “remove sensationalism” from news and relies on an AI capable of “generating humanlike text” to make them boring to read. Of course, these AI-generated summarized articles are not a substitute for the real stories that require considerable human effort, but if you are running short on time, but want to get a brief overview of everything that’s happened in the past 24 hours across different fields, Boring Report is the app that deserves room on your phone.
Mobile If it seems like AI is taking over the world, that’s because it certainly feels like it. OpenAI's ChatGPT has made waves over the past few months, and more and more apps seem to be integrating AI somehow.
Expedia is the latest one, and it wants to use ChatGPT to help you plan your next vacation.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
