Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The Alienware x16 is almost my favorite gaming laptop. Here’s why it’s not By Jacob Roach Close $3,250.00 Fantastic gaming performance Solid build quality Compact enough to travel Comfortable AlienFX keyboard Unique RGB trackpad Runs hot or loud, with little in between Disappointing screen Limited USB-C power delivery We’ve seen the same 15-inch and 17-inch laptop designs for years, but now more than ever, 16-inch and 14-inch variants are making it onto the list of the best gaming laptops.
 The Alienware x16 is no different, serving as a spiritual successor to the x17 and offering desktop replacement levels of performance in a relatively thin and light laptop.
Alienware x16 (2023) specs A whole new style More ports than you could ever need The screen suffers Let’s talk about the RGB trackpad Strong CPU performance See ya, gaming desktops Decent, but not great, battery life A little more time to bake I didn’t believe the sales pitch, but using the x16 has changed my mind. You wouldn’t carry it around with you all day, but you can easily throw it in a backpack and bring one of the most powerful PCs money can buy with you on the go. It has some rough edges, particularly in the screen and some of the design decisions, but the Alienware x16 is still a mighty powerful laptop that’s worthy of consideration.
Best Alienware deals: Save on gaming laptops and PCs today Alienware just changed everything you know about its desktops Best Prime Day gaming laptop deals: Alienware, Razer, Asus & more Reviewing laptops involves more than just playing a couple of games. Read our guide on how we test laptops to get a view of our process.
Alienware x16 (2023) specs Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Alienware offers a ton of configurations for the x16, many of which don’t really make sense for the machine. You can scale down to an RTX 4050 and Core i7-13620H for the base price of $2,000, but I wouldn’t. Spending an extra $350 nets you an RTX 4070 and a Core i7-13700H, which feels like the sweet spot in price for this machine.
Alienware x16 (2023) Dimensions 0.73 x 14.36 x 11.41 inches Weight 6 pounds Processor Intel Core i9-13900HK Graphics Nvidia RTX 4080 RAM 32GB LPDDR5-6000 Display 16-inch, 2560 x 1600, 240Hz, IPS Storage 1TB Touch N/A Ports 2x USB 3.2 Gen2 Type-A, 1x USB-C 3.2 Gen 2, 1x Thunderbolt 4 w/ 15W PD, 1x headphone jack, 1x HDMI 2.1, 1x mini DisplayPort Wireless Wi-Fi 6E, Bluetooth 5.2 Webcam 1080p at 30 fps Operating system Windows 11 Home Battery 90 Whr Price (as configured) $3,250 The version I reviewed is much more expensive, mainly due to the fact that you’re forced to jump up to 32GB of LPDDR5 RAM and a Core i9-13900H if you want to unlock the RTX 4080 and RTX 4090 configuration options. Despite jumping up $800 in price for this configuration, Alienware doesn’t include a bump in storage space, discouraging you from spending more on the machine.
Alienware’s pricing feels out of sorts once you go beyond the golden configuration of the Core i7-13700H and RTX 4070. For context, the Asus ROG Zephyrus M16 with a similar RTX 4080 configuration costs $2,700 ($450 less than Alienware is asking), and it comes with 1TB of storage.
To give some credit to Alienware here, though, the x16 is a full-metal laptop. Even with the RTX 4080 configuration, it ends up cheaper than the Razer Blade 16 by about $400. In addition, you could actually save money with more storage space.
It may be a bug with Alienware’s website, but at the time of writing, going with 2TB of storage saves you $150 over the base 512GB SSD, and without changing anything else about the configuration.
A whole new style Jacob Roach / Digital Trends The Alienware x16 ushers in the Legend 3.0 design language, and it has a lot of changes. You’ll notice the RGB touchpad first, which is an impressive party trick, but there are a lot of other, more important, changes.
First, the full-metal chassis is built of anodized aluminum, magnesium alloy, and stainless steel. This laptop is a unit.
It’s not too heavy given how much metal is packed into it, though. It’s not an ultraportable powerhouse like the Razer Blade 14 , but the 6-pound weight feels manageable given this is an all-metal, 16-inch gaming laptop that can pack up to an RTX 4090.
That’s a full pound lighter than the Alienware x17 R2, which it seems this new model will eventually replace, and it’s even half a pound lighter than the ROG Strix Scar 17 (a laptop built mostly out of plastic). You shouldn’t carry this around in a backpack all day, sure, but you could, and most laptops in this class simply can’t say that.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends It helps that the laptop is very thin — 0.73 inches, to be exact, which is slightly smaller than even the portability-focused ROG Zephyrus M16.
 The only tough thing about portability is how deep the laptop is. It’s 11.4 inches, accounting for both the 16:10 screen and a hefty heat sink on the back, making the dimensions (outside of thickness) feel awkward.
But enough about portability because the Legend 3.0 design language changes a lot about, well, the design. Namely, Alienware is going with a new Lunar Silver cover for the lid. It doesn’t look bad, but I’m not really a fan. The hard aluminum clashes with the white back, making it look a little too industrial. To each their own, but I prefer the previous Lunar White color. It certainly isn’t offensive, so that’s a positive.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Otherwise, we have RGB everything. On the trackpad, of course, but also per-key RGB lighting on the keyboard, a microLED line following the back of the laptop, and even the Alienware logo on top. And you can customize all of these effects through the included Command Center utility. You can adjust all of the color settings en masse, but they don’t sync up with effects. For instance, a rainbow cycle will be at different points for each of the zones, rather than a cohesive whole.
This new design also brings a revamp to cooling. The feet design is built to channel airflow out of the back of the laptop, and the quad-fan internals promise to keep the laptop quiet, even when pushed. And it works, for better and worse (more on that later).
Regardless, I want to see what the Legend 3.1 design language looks like — an update to the version we already have. This is a solid foundation, but the x16 feels like a collage of ideas that don’t always work together. There are points I really like, though. For instance, the curved V-rail edges make picking up and opening the laptop a breeze. They also helped so my wrists weren’t irritated for long sessions of gaming , unlike a more angular machine such as the Razer Blade 14.
More ports than you could ever need You couldn’t ask for more with the port selection on the Alienware x16. You have access to a headphone jack, microSD card slot, two USB 3.2 Gen 2 Type-A connectors, two USB-C connectors with Thunderbolt 4, a full-size HDMI 2.1, and a mini DisplayPort 1.4 connector. The only thing missing is an ethernet jack, which I’m willing to part ways with given the Wi-Fi 6E support onboard.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends But there are still problems. Alienware, much like Lenovo, situates the ports on the back of the laptop. I like this approach to move all of your cable mess out of the way, but Alienware only puts ports on the back. Moving one or two of the USB ports to the side of the laptop would do wonders for usability.
The main problem I have is that the Thunderbolt 4 connector supports power delivery, but only up to 15 watts, according to the spec sheet. Alienware claims you can charge the laptop this way, but only when it’s off. And even then, it will take a long to reach the full battery capacity. The fact that the machine doesn’t support 65W or 100W or power delivery is a huge missed opportunity for portability.
The screen suffers Jacob Roach / Digital Trends / Digital Trends You have two display options on the Alienware x16 — either a 240Hz option or a 165Hz option. Otherwise, they’re the same, sporting a 2560 x 1600 resolution, 240Hz refresh rate, Advanced Optimus, and Nvidia’s G-Sync.
The display is serviceable, but it’s not good. It peaked at just 312 nits of brightness, with a contrast ratio of less than 1,000:1 (830:1 at most based on my testing). Something is off with the gamma of the display, too, awkwardly jumping between brightness steps and changing the display of colors, along with heavy vignetting around the edges of the screen.
The screen looks good when you’re playing games, but by an objective metric, it’s off. This is really a display just for gaming and not much more. I was able to get it into a more usable state after calibration, but it’s still a far cry from some of the mini-LED and OLED displays we’ve seen as of late in gaming laptops.
Let’s talk about the RGB trackpad Jacob Roach / Digital Trends / Digital Trends As you can read in my Alienware4 x17 R2 review , I’m not a fan of the Cherry MX “mechanical” laptop keyboard that Alienware (and others) offer. The x16 features this keyboard as an option, but Alienware sent me the standard X-series keyboard for my review unit. And I love it.
Really, this is competing to be my favorite laptop keyboard. It’s up there with the Zephyrus G14 and Razer Blade 14, just with a little more travel. It feels great, both for typing and for gaming, and it slowly faded into the background during long typing sessions and grinding dungeons in Diablo IV.
The trackpad is a slightly different beast. It works, and the RGB looks impressive, but it’s a little small. In fact, you can almost see the edges on the x16 that you could cut along to make an x14. That doesn’t matter in most areas, but it makes a difference in the trackpad, which feels puny on such a large laptop.
Strong CPU performance For now, Alienware is offering the x16 with three processor options: the Core i7-13620H, Core i7-13700H, and the Core i9-13900HK, which is unlocked for overclocking. I tested the flagship chip that packs in 14 cores and up to a 5.4GHz boost clock speed, and it has some serious grunt.
Perhaps not as much grunt, though, as you might find out of one of the multi-core behemoths inside the Asus Scar 17 or MSI GT77 Titan , as you can see from Cinebench and Geekbench results above. This is a 14-core chip, while the most powerful laptop CPUs are pushing upwards of 24 cores.
I’m happy to see Alienware hold some restraint given this is supposed to be a thinner and lighter gaming laptop. As you can see in my single-core results, the Core i9-13900HK doesn’t have a problem keeping up.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The unlocked nature of the processor isn’t for nothing. In PCMark 10, it allowed the Core i9-13900HK to shoot ahead of the base Core i9-13900H, and even the HX-series variant. It still can’t best AMD’s Ryzen 7 7745HX inside the Lenovo Legion Pro 5.
 AMD’s latest CPUs have had a particularly strong showing in this benchmark.
This processor is more than enough for gaming, and I’d imagine you wouldn’t sacrifice much going down to the Core i7-13700H. Unfortunately, that chip maxes out with an RTX 4070 (though, that configuration is a clean $800 cheaper than the model I reviewed, and I imagine still delivers solid performance).
Image used with permission by copyright holder Where it struggles is intense multi-core tasks like video encoding. As you can see in Handbrake, it’s vastly behind the Core i9-13980HX and Ryzen 9 7945HX, both of which sport much larger core arrays. Given Intel’s hybrid architecture, you’re not getting a full 14 cores worth of grunt, leaving the Core i9-13900HK in an awkward spot.
See ya, gaming desktops Jacob Roach / Digital Trends We haven’t seen such a wide swath of graphics options in a laptop as you can see in the Alienware x16 — down to an RTX 4050 and all the way up to an RTX 4090. I tested the RTX 4080 model, with the full 175 watts available to this model of graphics card.
And it’s clear Alienware is squeezing the most it can out of this GPU. It’s also clear that the RTX 4080 is the sweet spot for this form factor of laptop. As you can see from my 3DMark results, the RTX 4080 Alienware x16 nearly matches the RTX 4090 inside the Zephyrus M16. I suspect that will be the same situation if you configure the x16 with an RTX 4090, so you can probably save the $350 and go with the RTX 4080 instead.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Looking at real games, the Alienware x16 is a stellar laptop at its native 1600p resolution. Even the most demanding games, like Cyberpunk 2077, can easily run above 60 frames per second (fps). Most games will run above 100 fps, making the 240Hz display option feel like a worthwhile upgrade.
It’s even more worthwhile considering the RTX 4080 (and all RTX 40-series GPUs) support DLSS 3. That makes high-end ray tracing in Cyberpunk 2077 possible, sure, but I even enjoyed throwing on Frame Generation in Diablo IV and Marvel’s Spider-Man for the extra smoothness.
During gaming sessions when I wasn’t benchmarking, I kept the laptop in its default Performance mode. There’s an Overdrive mode available, but as you can see in my results that it often results in lower gaming performance, despite massively ramping up the fan speed.
You don’t have to run the laptop at its native resolution, though. The 1,200p still provides plenty of pixel density on the screen, and it can lead to much higher performance, as you can see in my benchmarks below.
Image used with permission by copyright holder At this resolution, you’re comfortably above 100 fps, even in a game as demanding as Cyberpunk 2077.
I don’t suspect you’ll have to go down in resolution with how much power the Alienware x16 has when equipped with an RTX 4080, but you can’t really max out the 240Hz refresh rate.
Alienware is squeezing peak performance out of this machine, and it’s a fantastic experience at the native resolution. I would highly recommend getting an external keyboard and mouse, though. The machine, in its default Performance mode, gets worryingly hot. It’s uncomfortable using the keyboard with how hot it gets, and even more when the vents are spitting out heat on your mouse hand.
It’s not unusable, but it’s clear Alienware is making trade-offs between heat and thermals. The default mode runs very hot, but it’s comfortably quiet. By contrast, the Overdrive mode doesn’t get nearly as hot, but it’s very loud, and oftentimes less performant than the default mode.
Decent, but not great, battery life You shouldn’t expect a lot of battery life out of a 16-inch gaming laptop packing an RTX 4080, but the Alienware x16 at least delivers on the expectations for such a configuration. In our web browsing benchmark, it lasted four hours and 26 minutes, falling in mind with machines like the Dell XPS 17 9730 and MSI Creator Z17 HX.
It lasted longer than the Asus Scar 17 , as well, which is good to see. However, I’m still bummed that the Alienware x16 doesn’t support full USB-C charging, which would make it much more practical for moving around. It’s strange considering the Alienware x14 only charges through USB-C, while the beefed-up version can only support 15W.
A little more time to bake Jacob Roach / Digital Trends I sincerely hope Alienware iterates on this design in the future. The x16 needed a little more time to bake to reach its full potential, but the laptop we have today is still a solid starting point. Great performance, an excellent keyboard, and a relatively thin package make it stand out among desktop replacements, even if it doesn’t quite surpass a machine like the Zephyrus M16.
Although this is a solid foundation, there are a fair few problems. The lack of the full 100W of USB-C power delivery vastly limits the laptop’s portability, and the screen, despite being good for gaming, needs a second pass for color accuracy and quality. It’s possible Alienware could address the screen, at least, with a software update, and maybe a minor mid-gen refresh could add proper USB-C power delivery. We’ll just have to wait and see.
Editors' Recommendations Don’t wait for new GPUs. It’s safe to buy a gaming laptop now This Acer OLED laptop (almost) beats the MacBook Air 15 — and it’s cheaper It’s official — AMD’s best gaming CPU is coming to laptops Here’s why PCIe 7 will be a major upgrade when it comes to your PC The Framework Laptop 16 is officially my most anticipated laptop Dell Laptop Reviews Laptops PC Gaming Product Reviews Windows Reviews Computing Next-gen Nvidia RTX 40-series laptops might not be as expensive as we expected. Alienware announced pricing and availability for its upcoming m18, m16, and x16 featuring the mobile RTX 4080, and prices are actually a bit lower compared to the best gaming laptops of the current generation.
We expected next-gen Nvidia laptops to be more expensive than the previous generation, not only because of $1,000 machines like the MSI Cyborg, but also due to the rising prices of desktop GPUs like the RTX 4080. That's not the case for Alienware's first batch of machines, however.
Computing DirectX is the secret sauce that allows most of the best PC games to run. It solves a problem for developers by offering a standardized solution to communicate instructions to your graphics card, and it's a cornerstone of the best graphics cards you can buy right now.
We'll run you through what DirectX is, why DirectX 12 Ultimate is important, and how you can find what DirectX version is installed on your PC.
What is DirectX? Computing Asus announced updates to two of its most portable gaming laptops at CES 2023. The 13.4-inch ROG Flow X13 has been slimmed down and powered up, making it an even more viable portable gaming option. Meanwhile, the 14.o-inch ROG Zephyrus G14 has received its own updates and is an incredibly powerful machine given its smaller chassis.
Both are solid offerings for anyone who wants a powerful gaming laptop they can easily carry around. The Flow X13 is slower by itself, but much faster with its XG Mobile add-on, while the Zephyrus G14 looks more like a gaming laptop and carries more power around with it. Which is the right portable gaming solution for you? Specs Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
