Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? An e-ink screen display is both this laptop’s superpower, and its Achilles’ heel By Mark Coppock Close $3,039.00 Innovative 2-in-1 design Respectable productivity performance Excellent OLED display Solid build Extremely expensive Only one configuration available E-ink display shows a lot of ghosting E-ink color quality was disappointing Below-average battery life Lenovo is known for its traditional ThinkPad, an iconic brand that has remained largely the same for years, along with other established lineups like the Slim Pro and Yoga. They’re excellent laptops, but they don’t break a lot of new ground. However, with its ThinkBook, Lenovo stretches its legs and introduces some innovative solutions. The ThinkBook Plus Gen 4 2-in-1 laptop is a prime example. It utilizes a swivel design that harks back to the earliest Windows Tablet PCs while incorporating a color e-ink display into the lid.
Specs and configurations A design that’s both brand new and a blast from the past It’s all about the displays Decent mainstream performance, disappointing longevity Innovative but flawed When viewed as a traditional 2-in-1 laptop, the ThinkBook Plus Gen 4 is an attractive machine on paper, with a high-resolution OLED display and an Intel 13th-gen CPU. But it’s also very expensive, and that price needs to be justified, even for the small business buyers that Lenovo is targeting. And the most innovative feature, the color e-ink display, has one big issue that makes it less than a pleasure to use.
This tiny ThinkPad can’t quite keep up with the MacBook Air M2 The ThinkPad X1 Carbon Gen 11 is both faster and longer-lasting Why rollable laptop screens look way more useful than foldable ones Specs and configurations Lenovo ThinkBook Plus Gen 4 Dimensions 11.69 inches x 8.62 inches x 0.62 – 0.70 inches Weight 2.98 pounds Processor Intel Core i7-1355U Graphics Intel Iris Xe RAM 16GB LPDDR5x Display 13.3-inch 16:10 2.8K (2,880 x 1,800) OLED 12-inch 16:10 WQXGA (2,560 x 1,600) color e-ink Storage 512GB SSD Touch Yes Ports 2 x USB-C with Thunderbolt 4 1 x 3.5mm audio jack Wireless Wi-Fi 6E and Bluetooth 5.1 Webcam 1080p Operating system Windows 11 Battery 56 watt-hour Price $3,039 Lenovo offers just a single configuration of the ThinkBook Plus Gen 4, and it’s very expensive at $3,039. That gets you an Intel Core i7-1355U CPU, 16GB of RAM , a 512GB SSD, and both a 13.3-inch OLED display and a 12-inch color e-ink panel. This price will be hard to swallow for anyone who doesn’t see a very strong need for the 2-in-1’s e-ink display. The reviewer’s guide implies that more configurations are coming, including some with additional storage and potentially different processors, but I would have liked to see more options available at launch.
A design that’s both brand new and a blast from the past Mark Coppock / Digital Trends Today, the ThinkBook Plus Gen 4’s display, which twists around on a central swivel to choose between the OLED and e-ink touch displays in tablet mode, seems brand new. But it’s actually a throwback: The design was popular in the early to mid-2000s when the Windows Tablet PC Edition was first introduced. A number of early 2-in-1s used it, like the Lenovo ThinkPad X61.
 In use, it’s more complicated than the more traditional 360-degree convertible 2-in-1 where the display simply flips around to tablet mode, but it’s necessary to allow both screens to be used as a tablet.
Despite all the moving pieces, it’s remarkable how solid the all-aluminum laptop feels. The laptop has earned MIL-STD 810H certification and feels as solid as the best premium laptops.
 You’ll want to protect against cracking the Gorilla Glass e-ink display, but less so than you would other 2-in-1s with their traditional glass exposed in tablet mode. And other laptops, like the Lenovo Slim 9i , have a glass top that would need the same level of protection.
Mark Coppock / Digital Trends The ThinkBook Plus Gen 4 is a small laptop that’s a little thicker than competing clamshells, but not unreasonable for a 2-in-1. The Dell XPS 13 Plus , for example, is thinner at 0.60 inches compared to the ThinkBook’s maximum of 0.70 inches. But the HP Spectre x360 13.5 2-in-1 is about as thick at 0.67 inches, and almost the same weight at 3.01 pounds versus 2.98 pounds for the ThinkPad.
With the exception of the e-ink display that always shows an image of some kind even when the laptop is asleep or turned off, the ThinkBook Plus Gen 4 fits the contemporary minimalist aesthetic. It’s black with simple lines, although the lid is offset a bit to accommodate the swivel, which gives it a bit of a different look. The swivel stands out as something new, even though, as mentioned above, it’s actually an old design.
Mark Coppock / Digital Trends The keyboard is one of the better examples of the non-ThinkPad versions, meaning it has sculpted keycaps and tons of spacing, with relatively shallow switches that are nevertheless quite snappy and precise. It’s as good as the keyboards on Dell’s XPS line and HP’s Spectres, but a tiny step behind the best keyboard, Apple’s Magic Keyboard on the latest MacBooks. The touchpad is a bit small, but not egregiously so for a 13-inch laptop, and it’s responsive, with clicks that are a little sharp and loud.
Connectivity is limited, as is the case with many small laptops today, with just two USB-C ports with Thunderbolt 4. Lenovo does bundle a USB-C to USB-A and HDMI dongle in the box. Unlike the Dell XPS 13 Plus, the ThinkBook Plus Gen 4 retains the 3.5mm audio jack, which is welcome. Wireless connectivity is up to date.
Finally, the webcam is a 1080p version, which is sharp enough for a quality videoconferencing experience. There’s no infrared camera for Windows 11 Hello facial recognition, but the fingerprint reader embedded in the power button on the side works well once you get past a quirky setup. You can cover the webcam with a physical slider for some extra security and privacy.
It’s all about the displays Mark Coppock / Digital Trends I need to focus in on the e-ink display, because it’s what sets the ThinkBook Plus Gen 4 apart from other laptops. The ThinkBook Plus Gen 2 also had an e-ink display embedded in the lid, but that version was lower resolution and black-and-white. The Gen 4’s 16:10 e-ink display is a sharp 2,560 x 1,600, and it displays limited colors. It’s the first color e-ink screen I’ve seen in person, and it adds another dimension to the experience.
But it was disappointing. It demonstrated much more ghosting than other e-ink displays I’ve used, such as my main e-book reader, an Amazon Kindle Paperwhite, and the 2nd-gen ThinkBook Plus model. Even simply flipping the page in an e-book often left behind remnants of the previous page that were quite visible and made it difficult to read the new content. I set the panel’s anti-ghosting feature to refresh every 10 seconds, but that meant the display flashed annoyingly, and some ghosting often remained even after refreshes. Setting it to longer intervals made the flashing less bothersome, but then the ghosting lasted longer. It sometimes took several refreshes for the old content to completely disappear, and by that time the intervening content was often ghosted.
The e-ink screen has two modes: Reading provides higher clarity, better for reading and viewing other static images, while Dynamic has a higher refresh rate, but doesn’t look as crisp. Neither provided a great experience, though, especially compared to the gorgeous OLED display on the other side of the lid.
Mark Coppock / Digital Trends A dedicated interface does make the e-ink display easier to use, and the bundled active pen is useful for handwriting notes. But in practice, it’s just not that useful. I’m an avid reader, and I much prefer reading e-books. But the ghosting rendered the e-ink screen unusable for me. And even if it worked perfectly, its mainstream appeal would be limited. Your requirements must be specific to justify the ThinkBook Plus Gen 4’s extremely high price.
Mark Coppock / Digital Trends Thankfully, the 16:10 13.3-inch 2.8K OLED display is beautiful out of the box. It’s as colorful as all OLED displays and enjoys inky blacks as usual. I’d be far more likely to use this screen for reading e-books, except for late at night when I avoid blue light for better sleep patterns. It also supports the pen, and makes for a great inking experience.
According to my colorimeter, the OLED panel is just as good as others using the same technology. It’s bright at 383 nits, and has extremely wide colors at 100% of sRGB, 98% of AdobeRGB, and 99% of DCI-P3. That’s much better than the IPS average of 95% of sRGB and 75% of AdobeRGB. The colors are also extremely accurate, with a DeltaE of 0.67 (less than 1.0 is considered suitable for the most demanding creators). And contrast is high at 26,600:1, where most IPS panels are just above 1,000:1.
The display is great for all users, even creators, although the performance isn’t good enough for serious creative work. Media consumers and productivity users will be extremely pleased, though.
Decent mainstream performance, disappointing longevity Mark Coppock / Digital Trends The ThinkBook Plus Gen 4 uses 13th-gen Intel U-series processors, which are 15-watt chips that are meant to balance productivity performance and efficiency. I reviewed the laptop with the Core i7-1355U, which in other laptops has provided good, but not great performance.
Mark Ccoppock / Digital Trends In our synthetic benchmarks, the ThinkBook performed as expected. You’ll want to use the performance mode to get the best speeds, but even in normal mode, it can handle your mainstream productivity tasks quietly and without overheating. You won’t want to game on this laptop, and creators will want to look elsewhere.
Geekbench 5 (single/multi) Handbrake (seconds) Cinebench R23 (single/multi) PCMark 10 Complete Lenovo ThinkBook Plus Gen 4 (Core i7-1355U) Bal: 1,756 / 7,218 Perf: 1,843 / 7,494 Bal: 157 Perf: 128 Bal: 1,736 / 6,674 Perf: 1,819 / 8,002 5,571 Asus Zenbook S 13 OLED 2023 (Core i7-1355U) Bal: 1,829 / 6,893 Perf: 1,836 / 6,908 Bal: 157 Perf: 135 Bal: 1,629 / 6,005 Perf: 1,827 / 6,962 5,423 Lenovo Flex 5i 14 2023 (Core i5-1335U) Bal: 1,671 / 7,935 Perf: 1,679 / 8,268 Bal: 181 Perf: 133 Bal: 1,634 / 6,918 Perf: 1,724 / 7,890 5,513 Asus Zenbook 14 OLED (Ryzen 5 7530U) Bal: 1,457 / 7,527 Perf: 1,458 / 8,207 Bal: 123 Perf: 121 Bal: 1,457 / 7,527 Perf: 1,458 / 8,207 5,817 Lenovo Yoga 9i Gen 8 (Core i7-1360P) Bal: 1,843 / 8,814 Perf: 1,835 / 10,008 Bal: 122 Perf: 101 Bal: 1,846 / 8,779 Perf: 1,906 / 9,849 6,102 Apple MacBook Air M2 (M2) Bal: 1,925 / 8,973 Perf: N/A Bal: 151 Perf: N/A Bal: 1,600 / 7,938 Perf: N/A N/A The low-power CPU didn’t do much to overcome the appetite of the high-resolution OLED display. Even with 56 watt-hours of battery, which is good for a 13-inch laptop, the ThinkBook Plus Gen 4 didn’t get spectacular battery life.
In our web-browsing test, the ThinkBook lasted just 5.25 hours, which is a few hours less than average. It managed just over eight hours in the PCMark 10 Applications battery test and 12.5 hours in our vide0-looping test, which is two hours less than average for both.
Theoretically, the e-ink screen shouldn’t be using power when it’s not being used and the backlight is turned off. But something is draining power faster than it should, and the ThinkBook won’t last you a full day of work.
Innovative but flawed There’s no doubt that the ThinkBook Plus Gen 4 is an innovative laptop. The color e-ink screen is intelligently integrated and, on paper, would offer value for anyone who can make use of its unique characteristics, while the swivel mechanism is a functional return to the past that makes sense in a modern context. The 2-in-1 also has a spectacular OLED display you can use instead of the e-ink panel, and both support an active pen for inking.
Unfortunately, the e-ink screen suffers from significant ghosting that for many users, if not most, renders it unusable. And it’s an incredibly expensive laptop, twice as expensive as other premium 13-inch laptops. The price will have to come down significantly for it to be of value to most small business users, let alone mainstream laptop buyers, even if the ghosting is resolved. Even someone like me, who would appreciate a color e-ink display for a variety of reasons, wouldn’t pay a premium of more than a couple of hundred dollars for a perfect implementation.
Editors' Recommendations The best 2-in-1 laptops in 2023 Why the Dell XPS 13 Plus still beats the latest competition in little laptops Why the latest ThinkPad X1 Yoga Gen 8 isn’t worth the upgrade The Best 2-in-1 gaming laptops for 2022 The best laptops for kids Laptop Reviews Laptops Lenovo Product Reviews Windows Reviews Computing An interesting image was leaked on Twitter on Sunday, suggesting that Lenovo might be working on a brand-new laptop. The image shows a 17-inch Lenovo ThinkBook Plus with a smaller, secondary screen located on the right side of the keyboard. If the rumor is proven true, the laptop would certainly mark an innovative release for Lenovo.
The image was posted by @evleaks on Twitter alongside other gadget-related leaks. The poster is a reliable source with a proven track record, but it's important to take this report with skepticism until Lenovo makes an announcement about the release of this laptop.
Computing Lenovo's 14-inch ThinkPad X1 line is tailored for performance and portability, and out of the lineup, the X1 Carbon Gen 7 and X1 Yoga Gen 4 stand out. The former is its premier clamshell laptop while the latter is its premier 2-in-1 -- and both received some significant updates for their respective generations.
While the ThinkPad X1 Carbon is a refined version of the traditional ThinkPad build and aesthetic, the ThinkPad X1 Yoga represents a significant departure with a metal chassis and standout look. Which is the better example of a modern ThinkPad? Let's find out.
Design Computing Lenovo has significantly expanded its small business-focused ThinkBook line at this year's Consumer Electronics Show, with the highlight being an updated ThinkBook Plus Gen 2 i that dramatically improves the first-generation laptop that features an e-ink display on its lid.
Also being introduced are a new ThinkBook 13x i, a ThinkBook 14p Gen 2, and a ThinkBook 16p Gen 2. Check out the best new laptops of CES for more reasons for the latest releases.
ThinkBook Plus Gen 2 Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
