Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Is this little-known gaming laptop a Razer Blade 14 killer? By Jacob Roach Close $1,500.00 Reasonable price Solid gaming performance Highly portable Disappointing 1080p screen Middling keyboard and trackpad Runs loud and hot It’s a 14-inch gaming laptop. It has an RTX 4070 inside. And most importantly, it’s a full $1,000 less than the Razer Blade 14.
Origin EON14-S specs Display Keyboard, trackpad, and build quality Performance Not a killer And sure, the Origin EON14-S only comes with a 1080p screen, and to get the best bang for your buck, you need to drop down to 512GB of storage. But for $1,000 less than the Blade 14 (and a solid $200 less than the Zephyrus G14), the EON14-S seems like a godsend of a gaming laptop on paper.
I fell in love with this adorable mini gaming PC Best HP laptop deals: Get a Windows laptop for $199 Best Alienware deals: Save on gaming laptops and PCs today But the Origin EON14-S brings up an interesting conversation about how a spec sheet and a physical laptop differ. Because as compelling as this Origin laptop looks on the surface, the EON14-S is a middling laptop that won’t be the right fit for most people.
Origin EON14-S specs Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Let’s talk specs because that’s where the Origin EON14-S earns its stripes. The base price is $1,500, and for that, you’ll get an Intel Core i7-13700H and RTX 4060 along with 500GB of storage and 16GB of DDR5-4800. A $200 upcharge will bump the specs to an RTX 4070 and a Core i9-13900H. Not bad.
Origin, if you’re unfamiliar, offers a lot of customization options (read my Origin Neuron review for an example of the company’s excellent desktops). In particular, you can scale up to 64GB of RAM for $350 and up to 8TB of storage for $800, with several options in between. You can even set up a RAID configuration for your SSDs.
Origin EON14-S Dimensions 12.79 x 8.85 x 0.84 inches Weight 3.86 pounds Processor Intel Core i9-13900H Graphics Nvidia RTX 4070 RAM 32GB DDR5-4800 Display 1920 x 1080 IPS, 144Hz Storage 2TB NVMe SSD Touch No Ports 2x USB 3.2 Gen1 Type-A, 1x USB 3.2 Gen2 Type-C, 1x Thunderbolt 4, 1x HDMI, 1x Ethernet, 1x 3.5mm headphone Wireless Wi-Fi 6E, Bluetooth 5.2 Webcam 1080p Operating system Windows 11 Home Battery 73Whr Price (as reviewed) $1,901 Where the EON14-S falls behind is the screen. It’s a 1920 x 1080 display with a 144Hz refresh rate, despite touting specs more worthy of a 1440p display. It may seem like a fair trade-off given the price gap between something like the EON14-S and the Razer Blade 14 or Zephyrus G14, though.
The problem, as a buyer, is that you can go to your local Best Buy or Micro Center and put your hands on the Razer Blade 14 and Zephyrus G14. You can’t do that with the Origin EON14-S. And if you could, its problems would become apparent very quickly.
Display Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Let’s start with the screen because the spec sheet hints at its problem. Yes, it’s a 1080p display, but that’s not the main issue with it. It comes with thick bezels, and the bottom bezel is distracting. It looks as if Origin put a 16:9 screen inside a body built for a 16:10 one. Combined with the low resolution and the 14-inch body, everything just feels cramped on the EON14-S.
The display quality isn’t great, either. It topped out at just 270 nits of peak brightness, while most IPS displays these days can reach 350 or 400 nits. It showed decent color accuracy with a color error of 1.86 (under 2 is considered good), but the color coverage is poor. It covered just 74% of DCI-P3 and even fell short of full coverage of sRGB.
For those of you who aren’t display nerds, I don’t blame you, but those results don’t paint a great picture. The display looks OK at best, and it doesn’t have the range to extend to content creation or cinematic HDR gaming. It’s a clear cut corner on the EON14-S.
Keyboard, trackpad, and build quality Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Another area where the EON14-S falls behind is its overall build quality. It’s light at 3.86 pounds and portable at only 0.84 inches thick, but the EON14-S is constructed out of plastic from top to bottom. There’s a lot of screen and keyboard flex, and it definitely feels more fragile than other premium 14-inch gaming laptops.
I can overlook a plastic construction. Where the EON14-S loses me is the keyboard and trackpad. The trackpad is small, and it has a little too much give. It’s clearly separated from the rest of the body, providing an uncomfortable click when pressed. The keyboard is mediocre, as well. It’s useable, but the long travel combined with a mushy bottom makes it tough to type on.
The EON14-S feels like a barebones laptop. It doesn’t feel barebones in features, but rather like a shell you could buy to slot in your own components. Unlike the Zephyrus G14 and Razer Blade 14, it doesn’t feel crafted for a specific purpose from top to bottom.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends This feeling comes from other areas, too — the standard barrel power connector positioned on the right side of the laptop, right next to an oddly-placed power button, and the fact that the laptop just says “notebook computer” on the bottom. Remove the Origin logo from the top, and this could be any laptop from any vendor.
To be clear, I’m not docking points for the lack of explicit branding and a weird power button placement. They’re illustrations of the overall package the EON14-S arrives in, feeling like a spec sheet in a chassis rather than a premium gaming laptop.
Who cares? Well, these oversights translate into other areas of the laptop. The speakers are tinny and don’t get very loud, and although the machine isn’t hot to the touch, it gets extremely loud under a heavy workload (like, MSI GT77 Titan levels of loud). The components get hot, too, with the GPU reaching upwards of 80 degrees Celsius in games. It also dies fairly quickly — it lasted just six hours in my battery test, while similarly configured laptops can last more than eight hours with brighter screens.
Performance I’ve played up the spec sheet angle a lot during this review, but at the very least, the EON14-S delivers on that front. With a Core i9-13900H and an RTX 4070, it blitz through most tasks, even if you have to deal with some loud fan noise and higher temperatures along the way.
In multi-core tests, the Core i9-13900H can blow past anything AMD is offering right now, even if the chip doesn’t have quite as much room to breathe as it does in a machine like the ROG Zephyrus M16.
Similarly, the Core i9-13900H offers solid single-core performance, but the Ryzen chip inside the Lenovo Legion Pro 5 has a slight edge in Geekbench 5.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends When we zoom out and get a snapshot of overall productivity performance, though, the EON14-S starts to suffer as a laptop. Sure, the Core i9-13900H is powerful, but PCMark 10 makes an argument that the laptop isn’t making the most of the hardware it has.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Thankfully, that doesn’t translate into gaming performance. Looking at 3DMark Time Spy, the Origin EON14-S is actually slightly ahead of the Razer Blade 14, though only with its loud, hot performance mode. Still, it doesn’t quite have the grunt to match a larger laptop like the Lenovo Legion Pro 5, which is to be expected.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends For me, the default performance mode is the way to go. If you look at my 1080p gaming benchmarks, you can see that you’re not getting a huge advantage by pinning the GPU and CPU.
My results also show that a 1440p would have really been the way to go here. You’re getting close to or above 100 frames per second (fps) in most games, and this hardware is certainly capable of driving a higher resolution above 60 fps. That’s especially true with the RTX 4070, as it supports Nvidia’s DLSS Frame Generation.
Not a killer Jacob Roach / Digital Trends I’d wager a good chunk (if not the majority) of gaming laptop decisions happen without ever seeing the laptop in person. In that context, the EON14-S looks very enticing. It offers great specs and undercuts the competition, but there’s a lot more to a laptop than just the specs alone.
Although the EON14-S isn’t a straight-up bad laptop, it’s not a good one, either. It compromises in too many areas, even accounting for its lower price.
Editors' Recommendations Best Black Friday gaming laptop deals: Cheapest prices today Don’t wait for new GPUs. It’s safe to buy a gaming laptop now Best gaming laptop deals: Game on the go from just $550 The best thin and light gaming laptops 2023 AMD finally announced the GPU I’ve waited months for Laptop Reviews Laptops PC Gaming Product Reviews Computing Following some angry posts on Reddit, Valve has confirmed that using AMD's new Anti-Lag+ feature in Counter-Strike 2 can result in a ban. The official X/Twitter account for the game confirmed that AMD customers using Anti-Lag+ will be banned, as it tampers with the files of the game.
https://twitter.com/CounterStrike/status/1712875606776729832 Computing We've seen gaming laptops in classrooms and out in the wild on public transportion, but we've never expected to spot an Asus ROG laptop in a courtroom -- especially in the hands of an attorney representing former President Donald Trump. Still, there it was, with RGB lighting changing colors all throughout the first day of Trump's $250 million fraud trial in New York.
The unidentified laptop in question belongs to Alina Habba, one of Trump's attorneys, and it was first spotted by Ryan Rigney, a marketing director at a game development company called Odyssey Studio. Rigney took to Twitter to share his findings, claiming that we're looking at an Asus laptop with an Nvidia RTX 2070 Ti inside. The RTX 2070 Ti doesn't exist, so Rigney is most likely talking about the RTX 2070 Super.
Computing MSI makes some of the best high-end gaming laptops on the market. Their Bravo and Delta line are great for gamers on a budget, while the impressive Stealth line is here for people looking for a powerhouse mobile gaming system. Thankfully everything from the budget laptops to the professional rigs is on sale right now, so you can save hundreds on a prebuilt gaming laptop with impressive specs. Our picks for the best MSI gaming laptop deals are below.
MSI Bravo 15 -- $800, was $1,000 The MSI Bravo is a good starting place if you're just getting into the world of PC gaming. It has quality components, but nothing too flashy or expensive. It's compact at just 15.6-inches, but the screen still has a 144Hz refresh rate and 1080p resolution. The main money saver is in the AMD Ryzen 5 processor. The graphics card is an impressive Nvidia GeForce RTX 4050, which is where most of the budget goes. It skimps a bit on memory, with a standard 16GB of RAM but only 512GB of storage on its SSD.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
