Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? MacBook Pro M3: Should you choose the M3, M3 Pro, or M3 Max? By Jacob Roach Close Luke Larsen / Digital Trends Apple’s next generation of MacBook Pros is finally here , and they arrive touting the highly anticipated M3 chip.
 Like the previous generation, you have a choice between a 14-inch and 16-inch model, but there are a lot of differences when you start looking at the three versions of the chip that are available: the M3, M3 Pro, and M3 Max.
Pricing Color options M3 vs. M3 Pro vs. M3 Max M3 vs. M3 Pro vs. M3 Max performance What should you pick? We’re here to run you through all of the configuration options for the MacBook Pro M3, as well as if you should choose the M3, M3 Pro, or M3 Max. Apple currently has the , and they’re shipping now.
Pricing Apple There’s a wide range of pricing options for the M3 MacBook Pros depending on how you configure them. For the 14-inch model, you can get your foot in the door for $1,600,which gets you the base M3, 8GB of Unified Memory, and 512GB of storage. Apple offers two other stock configurations: one that costs $1,800 and upgrades the cheapest model to 1TB of storage, and another that comes with an 11-core CPU, 14-core GPU M3 Pro with 18GB of Unified Memory and 512GB of storage for $2,000.
You can scale these much higher. The 12-core CPU, 18-core GPU M3 Pro will run you an extra $200 compared to the base model, while the M3 Max with 16 CPU cores and 40 GPU cores will run you an extra $900. A fully tricked-out 14-inch MacBook Pro with the highest M3 Max, 128GB of Unified Memory, and 8TB of storage will run you $6,900.
The 16-inch model is much more expensive. You’ll spend $2,500 for the cheapest model, which comes with the 12-core CPU and 18-core GPU configuration of the M3 Pro, along with 18GB of Unified Memory and and 512GB of storage. To get 36GB of memory, you’ll need to spend an extra $400, and for 4TB of storage, where the M3 Pro maxes out, you’ll spend an extra $1,200.
Apple offers two configurations of the M3 Max with the 16-inch MacBook Pro , one with a 14-core CPU and 30-core GPU, and another with a 16-core CPU and 40-core GPU. The former will run you an extra $400 compared to the $2,500 base model, while the latter clocks in at an extra $700. Both the M3 Max configurations start with 48GB of memory, and they can scale up to 128GB of memory for an extra $1,000. In addition, you can pack in up to 8TB of storage for an extra $2,400.
Although the 16-inch MacBook Pro starts at a much higher price, it’s not too much more than the 14-inch MacBook when it’s maxed out. You’ll spend $7,200 for the top M3 Max, 128GB of Unified Memory, and 8TB of storage.
Color options Apple Normally, color options aren’t a big deal on the MacBook Pro. Pick the one you like, and you’re on your way. Apple is doing something strange with its M3 MacBook Pros, though. It introduced the new Space Black color to the MacBook Pro, but you can’t get it on every model.
You can get Space Black on both the 14-inch and 16-inch MacBook Pros, but only with an M3 Pro or M3 Max chip. If you go with the M3 chip, you can choose Space Gray instead. All models come with silver as an option as well.
It’s bizarre for Apple to restrict a color option to a particular chip, but it’s an important note if you were hoping to get your hands on one of the best-looking MacBooks Apple has ever made.
M3 vs. M3 Pro vs. M3 Max Apple The only product Apple currently has that supports the M3, M3 Pro, and M3 Max is the 14-inch MacBook Pro. There are only three chip options, but Apple has several configurations of each that are slightly different.
Starting with the M3, Apple is only offering it with an 8-core CPU and a 10-core GPU, though it’s worth noting that the 24-inch iMac with this chip can scale down to an 8-core GPU. Things are more complicated as you move up the stack. The M3 Pro in the 14-inch MacBook Pro is available with an 11-core CPU and 14-core GPU, or a 12-core CPU and 18-core GPU. Similarly, the M2 Max is available with a 14-core CPU and 30-core GPU, or a 16-core CPU and 40-core GPU.
On the 16-inch MacBook Pro, the options are a bit more streamlined. You don’t have the base M3 as an option, and if you want the M3 Pro, Apple is only offering it with a 12-core CPU and 18-core GPU. The M3 Max configurations remain unchanged with a 14-core CPU and 30-core GPU option, as well as a 16-core CPU and 40-core GPU option.
The choice between the M3 chips influences some other configuration options. With the base M3 in the 14-inch MacBook Pro, you have access to up to 24GB of Unified Memory, along with up to 2TB of storage and a 96-watt power adapter. The M3 Pro can scale up to 36GB with up to 4TB of storage, while the M3 Max offers up to 128GB with up to 8TB of storage. Those options don’t change on the 16-inch MacBook Pro, though it comes with a 140-watt power adapter by default.
M3 vs. M3 Pro vs. M3 Max performance Apple The M3 is a new generation for Apple, but it mostly improves GPU performance over raw CPU performance. That’s what we saw in our MacBook Pro M3 review , with the GPU in the M3 Max showing gains of around 56%. By comparison, the CPU boost was around 13% for single-core performance and 32% for multi-core performance.
That closely aligns with Apple’s original claims about performance. Apple said the M3 Max offers 50% faster CPU performance and 20% faster GPU performance compared to the M2 Max. In real applications, that plays out around twice the performance of the M1 Max in applications like MathWorks and Maxon Redshift. For context, Apple is only claiming an improvement of 10% in the GPU for the M3 Pro compared to the previous generation and no CPU advantage at all.
By comparison, the base M3 is less of a jump. We haven’t tested it in the MacBook Pro, but in the 24-inch iMac, the M3 showed a gain of about 20% for single-core and multi-core performance compared to the M1. That’s a clear step below the 35% jump Apple originally claimed, and likely plays out as about a 10% jump compared to the M2. That doesn’t matter much now, as you can’t get a MacBook Pro with the M2.
Apple Once again, the GPU is the big upgrade here.
We saw around a 20% improvement with the M3 compared to the M2 Pro in the Mac mini. That’s not a typo. It’s a 20% improvement compared to the M2 Pro, and a solid 35% jump compared to the M1 Pro.
That leaves the M3 Pro, which is the clear oddball of the lineup. We haven’t had a chance to test this chip, but according to a review from PCMag , the M3 Pro is clearly slower than last-gen’s M2 Max, with the M3 Max offering close to twice the performance.
There are really only two options for most people. The M3 is a solid generational improvement for buyers on a budget, while the M3 Max offers a massive jump for pro users. The M3 Pro is significantly cheaper, but it’s also much closer to the base M3 than it is to the M3 Max.
What should you pick? Luke Larsen / Digital Trends There are a ton of configuration options for the M3 MacBook Pros, but there are three main configurations we recommend. Here’s what you should get for the 14-inch MacBook Pro: M3 chip 16GB Unified Memory 1TB of storage $2,000 There’s a lot of room to go higher, so you can add more storage or memory as needed. The main thing is to skip the M3 Pro chip with the 11-core CPU and 14-core GPU. The M3 Pro already looks like a disappointing chip, and you don’t want a cutdown version of it. If you still want the M3 Pro, here’s what you should get in the 14-inch MacBook Pro: M3 Pro with 12-core CPU and 18-core GPU 36GB Unified Memory 1TB of storage $2,600 For the M3 Max, we recommend going with the 16-inch MacBook Pro for now. It’s possible that could change once we see how the chip performs in the smaller 14-inch model, but it’s reasonable to assume the 16-inch model will reach higher peak performance. With that chip, here’s what we recommend: M3 Max with 16-core CPU and 40-core GPU 48GB Unified Memory 1TB of storage $4,000 These configurations hit the sweet spot in Apple’s lineup of M3 MacBook Pros. As is usually the case, Apple charges a lot for extra storage, so we recommend using an external hard drive if you need beyond 1TB. If you need fast storage on the laptop itself, expect to spend hundreds or even thousands more depending on how much you need.
Editors' Recommendations The MacBook Pro M3 doesn’t have a memory problem — it has a pricing problem Apple M3: explaining the next generation of Apple silicon How to watch Apple’s ‘Scary Fast’ Mac launch event if you missed it I saw the new Space Black MacBook Pro, and it’s stunning The M3 Max makes the MacBook Pro look like a nearly unbeatable laptop Apple Laptops Mac Computing Apple's unexpected "Scary Fast" event has wrapped, and the 30-minute presentation was packed full of announcements. Headlining the showcase was Apple's new M3 chip, which is showing up in a variety of devices in just a week from now.
We have the lowdown on everything Apple announced at its unprecedented fall event, which kicks off the third generation of Apple's silicon with two major product updates.
M3 family of chips Computing The new Apple M3 is the "most advanced chip ever built for a personal computer," according to Apple. Debuted during Apple's "Scary Fast" event and sporting a new process, the M3 promises up to 60% higher performance in some apps. But will it really be worth an upgrade over the M1 or M2? We've already seen the M2 at work in devices like the Mac mini, and we'll have to wait until the M3 launches to really know how it performs. But based on what we know right now, here's how the M3 stacks up to the M2.
Computing At its Scary Fast event, Apple announced a refresh to the 24-inch iMac, bringing the M3 to its popular all-in-one desktop. The M3 is a big deal, especially since the iMac was the only Mac to not get an M2 update.
There were some things Apple didn't announce that many were hoping for: new accessories. Rumors leading up to the event pointed to a new Magic Keyboard and Magic Mouse, but that didn't come to fruition. With the iPhone's recent change to USB-C, some speculated that the Mac peripherals would also move away from Lightning. That didn't happen.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
