Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Reviews Acer Aspire S3 Review By Matthew S. Smith Close Exceptional Design Incredibly thin and light Great touchpad Affordable Poor audio quality Short battery life Poor performance per dollar Limited connectivity They’re here.
Ultrabooks, the super-thin laptops developed to specifications laid down by Intel, are now available. Among the first wave is Acer’s Aspire S3.
The company’s Timeline products have been among the best ultraportables for several years, offering an affordable alternative to those who couldn’t swing a MacBook – or an Asus U series. Acer’s focus on value has not been abandoned here, either, as the S3 retails at just $900, undercutting competitors by at least $100.
That buys you an Intel Core i5 processor – but it’s an ultra-portable variant clocked at 1.6GHz rather than a standard part locked at 2GHz or above. Don’t let that fool you into thinking this is not a powerful machine, however, because all the other components are impressive. There’s the same Intel HD graphics found in this processor’s more powerful siblings, 4GB of RAM , and both a 320GB standard hard drive and a 20GB solid-state drive (SSD).
Not bad. But cramming all this into a small frame is sure to be difficult, and the price tag of $900, even if it is $100 less than the competition, means this is far from a budget computer. Let’s find out what this Ultrabook really offers.
Design First thing’s first. Is the S3 able to compare to a MacBook Air ? Yes.
That’s not to say it’s better, or even as good. But it’s close. This laptop does not have the unibody design of a MacBook, but that doesn’t seem to make any difference in the laptop’s rigidity and luxury. Picking up the S3 is like picking up a thin, solid piece of metal. It’s hard to imagine there’s enough hollow space inside for a hard drive, processor and RAM.
If there’s anything that lets the S3 down, it’s the lid. Though solid, the hinge mechanism is too loose to properly support the relatively hefty metal surrounding the display. As a result, normal typing can induce some screen wobble, particularly if the surface you’re using is not perfectly solid.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Stranger still, the black material covering the hinge appears to be soft-touch rubber or plastic. Perhaps this supposed to be luxurious, but we would rather Acer used a stiff, exposed metal hinge.
Nitpicks such as these should not be brushed aside, but they reveal how solid the Acer is in general, as there’s nothing else to point to as a flaw or problem. We’re surprised that any Ultrabook is able to come within spitting difference of the Air’s quality. We’re even more surprised that the cheapest Ultrabook on the market is able to do so.
User interface Opening the S3 reveals a standard chiclet keyboard. This is actually a bit unusual for Acer, and as far as we can see, this keyboard design is all-new for the S3. Aesthetically, we would prefer if it used black keys rather than dull silver, but the existing design fits the laptop well enough.
More importantly, it’s pleasing to use. More key travel would be appreciated, but it would be understandably difficult to engineer into a laptop this thin. As it stands, the key feel is at least as good as your typical 13-inch ultraportable. The layout also works well. All keys are as large as they should be with the exception of the function keys (which is typical on a laptop) and the arrow keys.
Image used with permission by copyright holder You won’t need the arrows keys, anyway, because the touchpad is among the best to ever grace a Windows laptop. Companies have been trying to copy Apple’s large glass touchpad for ages, but this time it’s actually done right. The surface is large, the integrated buttons require a light touch to activate, and the multi-touch features are shockingly smooth.
Connectivity The Aspire S3 offers two USB 2.0 ports and a full-size HDMI port around the back, along with an SD card reader on the right. That’s it. While a MacBook Air is similarly stripped, the Thunderbolt port offers more flexibility than HDMI. More expensive Ultrabooks like the Asus UX31 offer USB 3.0 and mini VGA output, making them more practical in a variety of scenarios.
Display and audio quality One of the traditional issues with PC ultraportables is display quality. Unfortunately, this is something the S3 does not address.
On offer is a glossy display with a resolution of 1366 x 768. Not all glossy displays are built the same, however, and the one in the S3 appears to be among the most reflective of the breed. When typing in a sunlit room, it was easy to see our own hands on the display — and that was only after we tilted the display down so that we didn’t have to stare at our own mug the entire time.
Image used with permission by copyright holder After learning to ignore your own reflection, you’ll find stunningly average image quality. Black levels, white saturation, gradient banding — it’s all okay. Not bad. Not good. Just acceptable.
Despite the lack of any visible speaker, Acer decided to slap this laptop with a Dolby Home Theater badge, which does nothing to improve the meager audio. You can listen to podcasts and watch YouTube videos in a quiet room, but music is not pleasing, and moderate background noise can obscure whatever you’re listening to.
Portability At just shy of three pounds, the S3 weighs more on paper than you might expect, but this heft isn’t noticeable when using the device. In fact, the laptop feels exceptionally light, making it easy to carry around in a bag or not.
Image used with permission by copyright holder This, combined with the 13.3-inch display and thickness of less than 0.7 inches at the laptop’s thickest point, makes for a very portable laptop indeed. Any bag that can fit it should be able to accommodate the weight and bulk. Better still, the low power requirements allow Acer to provide a small, lightweight power adapter that is easy to take on long trips.
You’ll need it. Battery endurance comes courtesy of a measly three-cell unit that is integrated into the body of the laptop and, thus, not user serviceable. Though the processor in this laptop is designed to only sip power, a battery of this size will give up sooner rather than later, as was shown in our testing. Battery Eater Standard clawed through the battery in an hour and 43 minutes, while the less intense Reader’s Test extended life to 4 hours and 43 minutes. This is not great life for a ultraportable, and for some users it will be the laptop’s greatest weakness.
Image used with permission by copyright holder No matter if it’s plugged in or not, this laptop remains reasonably cool. The main source of heat can be found on the left hand side of the laptop, and it will become toasty at times. Using the laptop at load in your lap will quickly become uncomfortably.
Software Our review unit arrived with a number of preinstalled icons, including Netflix, eBay, Acer Games and McAfee Internet Security. Some of these, such as the Netflix icon, are nothing more than links to the service in question.
The large number of icons is annoying, but they don’t cause much trouble. Just delete the shortcuts and you won’t remember they were ever there.
McAfee’s Internet Security is the exception, since it will routinely prompt users to purchase the full service for protection. As always, this is a pain, but it’s hard to ding the S3 for this much because virtually all laptops on the market bundle some sort of anti-virus.
Performance Standard inside the S3 is the Core i5-2467M, which boasts a base clock speed of 1.6GHz and a Turbo Boost maximum of 2.3 GHz. Intel built this processor specifically for small, light systems that can’t fit larger, hotter variants. When you see part like this, you can be certain it’s going to be slower than a normal version of the same brand, but how much do you sacrifice? SiSoft Sandra’s Processor Arithmetic test resulted in a combined score of 27.2 GOPS, while the 7-Zip benchmark returned a combined score of 5,623. Typical scores for standard Core i5 processors are around 35 to 42 GOPS in Sandra, and 7,000 to 8,200 in 7-Zip.
Certainly, there is a performance price to pay for this low-voltage variant, but this is still a strong product that bests the competition easily. In fact, the performance is about on par with normal Core i5 processors from the first generation.
Graphics are handled by Intel’s HD 3000, and as usual it isn’t up to the task of serious gaming. 3DMark 06 returned a lackluster score of 3,316, and Dawn of War 2: Retribution was not enjoyable at the laptop’s native resolution, even with detail at the low preset. Older 3D titles will be playable on this laptop, but buyers shouldn’t expect it to play more recent games at anything besides the lowest detail.
Conclusion If you want a MacBook Air, but you don’t want OS X or can’t tolerate the $1,300 price tag, the Acer Aspire S3 is a good alternative.
It’s not perfect. Every flaw that was expected of Ultrabooks , including poor performance-per-dollar, lackluster battery life, and limited connectivity can be found in this laptop.
Other competitors may offer better solutions to these issue . We do hope to review more Ultrabooks soon – but they’re also more costly. The 13.3-inch ASUS Zenbook, for example, is $200 more.
Consumers who are looking for an ultraportable in this range should also consider slightly thicker models, including Acer’s Timeline brand, the Asus U series, and Dell’s Inspiron or XPS 14z. All offer better performance-per-dollar, and have better battery life as well. If you’re hooked on the Ultrabook concept, however, the Acer Aspire S3 is a solid entry that won’t cause excessive harm to your savings account.
Highs: Exceptional Design Incredibly thin and light Great touchpad Affordable Lows: Poor audio quality Short battery life Poor performance per dollar Limited connectivity Editors' Recommendations The MacBook Pro M3 doesn’t have a memory problem — it has a pricing problem Why the MacBook Air is still stuck on the M2 Apple’s new M3 Macs could launch any day now, leak claims Apple’s M3 MacBook plans could be in jeopardy this year Apple’s big M3 MacBook event could be in danger Acer Apple Laptop Reviews Laptops Mac Mac Reviews Product Reviews Windows Reviews Computing While the laptop industry continues to move toward 14-inch laptops and larger, the 13-inch laptop remains an important category. One of the best is the Apple MacBook Air M2, with an extremely thin and well-built chassis, great performance, and incredibly long battery life.
Lenovo has recently introduced the third generation of its ThinkPad X1 Nano, one of the lightest laptops we've tested and a good performer as well. It's stiff competition, but which of these two diminutive laptops stands apart? Specs and configurations Computing The least expensive MacBook you can buy remains the MacBook Air M1, which Apple is keeping around in spite of a complete redesign with the MacBook Air M2. And there's good reason. The MacBook Air M1 is among the best laptops that sell for under $1,000.
But it's not the only great laptop for under $1,000. The Asus ZenBook 14 OLED is also a special machine, offering considerable value at a starting price of $700, including a luscious OLED display. As good as the MacBook Air is, the ZenBook 14 just might have it beat.
Specs Computing Pretty much all Apple products are some of the best-in-class for their respective type of tech. However, you do pay for the privilege with many devices like iPads or MacBooks costing a little more than non-Apple variants. That's why it's so useful to find great Apple deals like the ones below. We've picked out some of the best ways to save substantially on highly sought after Apple products from accessories to AirPods and more. Take a look below at some of our favorite Apple deals right now.
AirTags (4-pack) -- $89, was $99 If you worry about misplacing items, you need Apple AirTags. With a simple one-tap setup, your iPhone or iPad is instantly connected to an AirTag so that you can always use find items via the Find My app. That could be your car keys, your bag, or anything else that you can fit or slip an AirTag into. If you misplace something, you can simply put the AirTag into Lost Mode to be notified when it's detected in the Find My network helping you pin it down. You can also play a sound through the built-in speaker if you know it's nearby but you're not sure if it's worth moving the couch to find it.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
