Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Apple iMac 21.5-inch (2014) review By Konrad Krawczyk Close Handles day-to-day tasks with ease Dead quiet Elegant, sturdy construction Sharp IPS LCD screen Commendable built-in speakers Bundled mouse and keyboard Premium price Disappointing CPU performance Components are not user replaceable Awkward mouse and keyboard Cupertino recently lowered the price on its iMac desktops from $1,299 to $1,099. Though still spendier than many PC competitors, getting an iMac suddenly got significantly more affordable.
This iMac had the stock 500GB mechanical drive upgraded to a 1TB Fusion Drive, adding $250 to the price for a total of $1,349. Other specs match the base model, including a 1.4GHz Intel Core i5 dual-core processor, 8GB of RAM , and Intel HD Graphics 5000.
Apple envisions its newest iMac as the perfect computer for basic day-to-day use, tasks like Web browsing, email, and light gaming. While it may fit that description, $1,349 — or even $1,099 — is a lot to pay. Does the iMac’s performance justify the new, lower price? Video review Nothing new here Aside from a change in specs and price, this 21.5-inch iMac doesn’t sport any radical changes on the design front.
The iMac’s chassis is made of aluminum, and feels as premium as any computer we’ve ever laid our hands on. The system is thin, measuring 5mm at its edge, and rests on a solid L-shaped pedestal. Tilting the display up and down is so effortless you can do it with one hand — no need to grab the base to steady it.
The iMac feels as premium as any computer we’ve ever laid our hands on.
Apple’s dislike for cables extends over to the bundled peripherals, a standard keyboard and Magic Mouse, both of which are wireless. While they’re pretty, they’re both small. If you’re used to a full-size PC keyboard, Apple’s flat, wireless QWERTY will seem especially tiny.
Our other design complaint is that the power button is mysteriously located around the back left, where it’s difficult to find. Eventually, you’ll develop the muscle memory that ends the “find the power button” hunt, but we wish it was placed in the front. In fact, we think the Apple logo under the display would make a great power button.
The iMac’s 21.5-inch 1080p display produces crisp, luminous images, even if the gloss can be distracting when viewing at an angle. The built-in speakers will be more than good enough for most people, though audiophiles will probably want to add a nice pair of headphones , or some chic speakers.
Around back, you’ll find a sufficient set of ports: four USB 3.0, two Thunderbolt , Ethernet, a memory-card reader, and an audio jack. We like that all of the USB connections are of the speedy 3.0 variety, but we wish it had a mic jack, along with an HDMI port. Wireless connectivity comes courtesy of 802.11ac, and Bluetooth 4.0.
Do you hear that iMac? No, no you don’t We’ve come across our fair share of noisy PCs, and we’re sure that you have as well. Though we’ve grown to live with whirring fans and clicking hard drives, some computers mask it better than others. And the new iMac is as quiet as PCs come. No matter what we were doing — browsing the Web, gaming, watching videos, or benchmark testing — we didn’t hear a peep out of this thing.
Performance Apple envisions its newest iMac as the ideal home computer, best suited for handling basic tasks. So how does its 1.4GHz Intel Core i5 CPU hold up in testing? Before we get into that, it’s worth nothing that Apple’s limited selection of hardware and the Mac OS led us to begin by comparing it to the MacBook Pro — a laptop — rather than other desktop PCs running Windows. Normally, we would not compare a laptop to a desktop, but considering that this iMac is priced alongside a MacBook Pro (which goes for $1,299), we thought it made a fair comparison.
Surprisingly, the laptop often won.
Image used with permission by copyright holder In the Cinebench OpenGL benchmark, the iMac got 20.61 frames per second (fps). Though that’s not bad for a computer with an integrated graphics processor (GPU), the MacBook Pro 13 with Retina outperforms it at 24fps.
We also ran Geekbench 3 on the iMac, a good gauge of the CPU’s power. The iMac got single and multi-core scores of 2,835, and 5,449, respectively, while the MacBook Pro 13 edges out both with scores of 2,946, and 6,301.
In order to stack up the iMac against Windows machines, its primary competition, we dual booted Windows 8.1 with OS X via Boot Camp, and ran SiSoft Sandra and 7-Zip, two of our Windows benchmark regulars.
You can get a better balanced iMac by spending less.
In the SiSoft Sandra Processor Arithmetic test, the iMac scored 36.11 GOPS. That’s lower than what the Lenovo got – 48.46 GOPS.
Yet the roles were reversed a bit when it came to 7-Zip. The iMac got a score of 7,512, while the C560 scored just below that – 7,436. Even so, considering that the C560 was significantly cheaper than this iMac when we reviewed it, the scores shouldn’t be this close to begin with.
Real-world use Processor performance aside, the iMac held up well when it came to real-world usage. We threw 20 to 30 browser tabs at it while installing League of Legends and keeping multiple windows open in OS X Mavericks.
We didn’t feel any delays when switching between multiple browser tabs in Safari, and scrolling up and down pages with all those tabs open was a smooth experience. We chatted, emailed, Facebooked, and more; the iMac never strained. If you’re looking for a desktop that can handle general tasks well, this iMac is more than adequate.
Mac OS X is not known for being much of a gaming platform. But one of the games we use to test real-world performance, League of Legends , also offers a Mac client. So, we fired the game up to see how the iMac’s Intel HD Graphics 5000 GPU would fare.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Without a frame-rate monitor for OS X, we had to judge gameplay by eye. With the game’s visuals set to medium, gameplay was buttery smooth. Even during the most heated 5 vs. 5 battles, the iMac didn’t choke, or even gasp. We would wager the frame rate on medium generally ranged from the low 40s, to the low 50s. That’s enough for an enjoyable gaming experience.
But the iMac didn’t fare as well when we turned the visuals up to very high. Here, the frame rate range dipped significantly enough to see stuttering, probably between the low 20s, to the mid 30s.
You probably won’t game much with the iMac anyway, but if you do, it can handle basic games like League of Legends and World of Warcraft fairly well. Just don’t expect to be able to crank the visuals up to the max while also maintaining solid frame rates.
Configurations and upgrade options Unfortunately, this iMac’s components can’t be upgraded by the user, which means the decisions you make when you buy stay with you forever.
Our review iMac came equipped with a 1TB Fusion Drive, replacing the 500GB mechanical drive in the $1,099 base model and driving the price up $250 to $1,349. We wouldn’t recommend making this swap if you buy one, considering that you can get a better balanced iMac by spending less.
Right now, Apple sells a $1,299 iMac with the same size display, a 2.7GHz Intel Core i5 quad-core processor, the same amount of RAM (8GB), a better, Intel Iris Pro Graphics GPU, and a 1TB mechanical hard drive. So, for $50 less, you get a better central processor, and graphics chip, rather than a Fusion Drive. That would make for a better rounded system, overall.
Conclusion Apple has always demanded a premium for its hardware, and even after a $200 price drop, that hasn’t changed. Any number of cheaper Windows machines will outperform Apple’s equivalent. For instance, the Lenovo A540 offers a larger 23.8-inch 1080p screen, an Intel Core i7 CPU clocked at 2.8GHz, Intel Iris Graphics 5100, the same amount of RAM (8GB), and a 1TB hard drive paired with an 8GB solid state drive for $1,299. Plus, like the iMac, the mouse and keyboard it’s bundled with are wireless as well.
But that’s not why you buy an iMac. Apple’s elegant design, sturdy construction, and gorgeous display are all unparalleled by any PC rival, and if you’re still not partial to Windows 8.1 , there’s no value you can attach to OS X Yosemite as a replacement.
For that reason, we still recommend Apple’s iMac in its cheapest $1,099 configuration, which will handle day-to-day tasks just as well as our review sample, and the upgraded $1,299 model with a better CPU and GPU, which will perform better than this model for less money.
If you have the patience, we strongly suspect Apple will unveil new iMacs when Intel’s Broadwell CPUs arrive in five or six months , so consider holding out for better efficiency and graphics.
Highs Handles day-to-day tasks with ease Dead quiet Elegant, sturdy construction Sharp IPS LCD display Commendable built-in speakers Bundled mouse and keyboard Lows Premium price Disappointing CPU performance Components are not user replaceable Awkward mouse and keyboard Editors' Recommendations Apple just dashed our iMac hopes and dreams Apple’s M3 Max appears to keep up with Intel’s top desktop CPU How to watch Apple’s ‘Scary Fast’ Mac launch event if you missed it Everything announced at Apple’s ‘Scary Fast’ event: iMac, M3, and more The M3 iMac is here, but it’s missing its most requested change Apple Apple Desktop Reviews Mac Mac Reviews Product Reviews Computing Apple’s “Scary Fast” event is just around the corner, and we already know Macs will be the focus. But a claim has just been made that Apple will dedicate much of the October 30 show to Mac gaming, which could be good news for anyone who enjoys playing games on Apple’s computers.
That’s the assertion made by MacRumors, and the news outlet puts forward several pieces of evidence to back up its ideas. In the end, it makes a lot of sense -- but there’s still no definitive proof.
Computing Apple finally confirmed its next event for 5 p.m. PT on Monday, October 30, and it's where we expect the company to introduce new Macs. The event, which carries the tagline "Scary Fast," will be streamed on Apple's website and Apple TV, but that's just about all of the details we know about the event right now.
The teaser on Apple's website shifts between the Apple logo and the Finder logo, further suggesting Apple will be talking about new Macs. The announcement comes about a week after prominent Apple analyst Ming-Chi Kuo revealed that an upcoming refresh to Apple's 24-inch iMac had been delayed to 2024.
Computing The will-they-won’t-they saga around Apple’s likelihood of releasing a refresh of the 24-inch iMac anytime soon took another twist on Sunday after prominent Apple analyst Mark Gurman suggested the machine could land at the end of this month.
It follows a report last week via another Apple specialist, Ming-Chi Kuo, who claimed that the updated iMac won’t appear until 2024.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
