Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Reviews Apple MacBook Air 11.6-inch (2012) Review By Matthew S. Smith Close Excellent user interface Light and portable Bright, beautiful display Snappy performance Competitive starting price Best bundled software in the business Limited port selection Merely adequate battery life Squeaking space bar The Ultrabook craze that’s swept across the PC market exists in the looming shadow of one single, insanely successful laptop — the MacBook Air. This is a bit ironic given the criticism that faced the original Air (which hit stores about four years ago, believe it or not). Everyone agreed it was beautiful and wonderfully built. But would consumers really go for a thin laptop without a removable battery, few ports and a less powerful processor? Not everyone was convinced.
Since then, the Air has proven a success for Apple, but this has done nothing to answer the unspoken question: Do consumers buy the MacBook Air because it is thin and attractive? Or do they buy it because it’s the MacBook Air? Apple seems to be leaning towards the second answer — if it feels threatened, it’s not showing it. Cupertino has done little besides update the hardware to take advantage of the latest third-generation Core processors. The RAM has also been upgraded (from a base of 2GB to 4GB) and a new 256GB solid-state memory option is available. Pricing for the 11.6” version is still $999, but the larger cousin has a base of $1,199.
Is such a minor revision enough to keep the MacBook Air at the top of its class? Let’s find out.
You’ve seen this before Okay, we’ll say it. The trademark silver-and-black is starting to seem a bit common. The same problem faces any luxury brand. When a new style becomes wildly popular, everyone tries to copy it — and each copy makes the original look a bit less unique that it did before.
Image used with permission by copyright holder But the copies still have trouble achieving the same quality. We review many laptops here at Digital Trends, so those around us are used to seeing the latest and greatest — but the Air still stunned friends, family, and passersby. People quickly noticed its solid build and robust materials. One person commented “I feel like I could kill somebody with it.” The only issue is a familiar one: ports. The Macbook Air offers two USB 3.0 ports, Thunderbolt , and a combo headphone-microphone jack. That’s it. Usually, that’s enough, but this machine isn’t built to be a desktop replacement and it will struggle if you try to use it as one.
Normal Keyboard, Smaller Touchpad Small laptops are not foreign to cramped keyboards and uncomfortable ergonomics, yet you’ll find no such problems with the Air. The 11.6” Air is just large enough to be comfortable but still small enough to seemingly disappear when you need extra desk space.
The Air offers a nearly edge-to-edge keyboard that provides maximum space in its minimal chassis. If you’ve ever used a MacBook keyboard before you’ll be familiar with this one, and if you haven’t, you’re missing out. In fact, the Air’s keyboard may be its most important technical accomplishment. This laptop is incredibly thin, yet key travel is sufficient to provide some tactile feel, something many PC competitors can’t claim.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Our only complaint with the keyboard was the spacebar. It squeaked slightly and had a different feel from other keys. Apple told us that this was not supposed to occur. Defect? Probably.
Though the 11.6-inch version does not compromise the keyboard it does slightly compromise the touchpad. The surface is smaller than what you’d receive with the 13.3-inch Air and the various MacBook Pro models. Fortunately, the surface that is available works as you’d expect. Scrolling is butter smooth and OS X gestures function normally.
Small and beautiful display The smaller version of the Air comes with a 1366 x 768 display. This resolution is often disappointing on larger laptops, but when crammed into an 11.6-inch display it provides an extremely crisp picture. Apple isn’t ahead of the competition in this respect, however, as there are several similar PC laptops that offer an identical resolution at a lower price.
Quality is where this laptop leaps ahead of the pack. Test images revealed black levels that are a bit better than average, excellent contrast, and no banding. While the display is glossy, the backlight is bright enough to overwhelm reflections, making the Air usable outdoors. Viewing angles could be better, but are sufficient for a laptop of this size.
The sound is clear and crisp, with minimal distortion. But it is not very loud. This is a small, thin laptop, so there’s no room for larger speakers. And bass? Forgettaboutit — or buy a pair of external speakers.
Cooler than before Many MacBook models have had trouble with heat. The original Air could become a bit toasty, and even the 13.3-inch version we looked at last year often felt warm.
It seems that the new Ivy Bridge processors have mostly resolved this problem. We noticed nearly no heat emanating from the Air while we performed simple tasks like Web surfing and document editing. Ramping up the load can make the Air much warmer — in fact, bottom temperatures of just over 100 degrees Fahrenheit are still possible, but you won’t notice this unless the processor is really being pushed.
Smaller laptop means smaller battery Of course the Air is portable. It weighs a tad under 2.4 pounds and is about .7 inches thin at its thickest point. Forget the envelope. You don’t need it, or any bag or case, for short trips. You can pick up the Air and go – provided the battery is willing. So is it? Image used with permission by copyright holder We can’t use our normal battery benchmarks with OS X so we have to use estimates rather than precise measurements. Our impression is that battery endurance is adequate. The smaller size of the Air requires a smaller battery, which negates the advantage of the low-voltage processor. Moderate Web surfing and online productivity netted us a run time of just under five hours with the display at or near maximum brightness.
YouTube and online games definitely drain the battery more quickly, eating over half of its power in just two hours. A particularly heavy usage pattern could exhaust the Air in three to four hours.
Luckily, it’s not a burden to pack the power adapter for long trips. It’s small and the extension cord can be detached and left at home if you don’t feel the need for it.
Excellent software suite This being a MacBook, the Air ships with OS X. Apple’s operating system has always felt particularly at home on small computers such as this. The multi-touch gestures and multi-tasking features, such a Mission Control, make it possible to extract a lot more productivity from a small display area.
Potential buyers shouldn’t forget the value of bundled software, either. The iLife suite, which includes Mac staples like iMovie and GarageBand, comes bundled for free. This bundle stands in contrast to the software found on many PCs, which is often more distracting than it is useful.
Quicker than ever The MacBook Air will not run our normal benchmarks, which once again leaves us without the ability to directly compare it to Windows machines. With that said, there’s nothing exotic about the hardware and so we don’t think any surprises will be found lurking in this laptop’s small frame.
The third-generation Core i5 low-voltage processor is far from the quickest in Intel’s current line-up, but remains among the quickest laptop processors ever made. We found that the Air had no problem handling day-to-day tasks. Apps loaded quickly, files saved or encoded in a snap and multi-tab browsing was a cinch.
We suspect that the solid state memory has just as much to do with the laptop’s snappy performance. Solid-state memory can access data much more quickly and also transfer data at a high speed. This results in short application load times and quick file transfers.
The real downside for Air owners is not going to be general day-to-day performance but instead gaming performance. Intel HD 4000 is the only option, and while it’s adequate for many older 3D titles, it isn’t great for new games. PC games are usually coded for Windows and DirectX first, while OpenGL is an after-thought, so a Mac’s performance, compared to that of many Windows machines, is sometimes yawn-worthy.
If you’re serious about PC gaming, you should buy a Windows machine; but if Apple is your only love, do yourself a favor and buy a MacBook Pro with discrete graphics.
Conclusion After a year of releases from PC manufacturers, the MacBook Air remains the ultra-thin laptop that sets the standard for the industry. Its build quality, design, and value are difficult for any PC alternative to match. Most can rival the MacBook Air in one or two areas but don’t offer the complete package.
Our only serious complaint about the 11.6-inch rendition of the new Air is battery life. We received a bit less than five hours of life, which is spot-on with what Apple claims. That’s adequate, but a lot of PC alternatives offer better endurance.
Potential buyers should not forget about the 13.3-inch model. Though slightly larger and more expensive it resolves the battery issues and offers a higher display resolution. The larger version will also be more comfortable for many users because of its display area and larger palm rests.
No matter what Air you decide on, you’ll end up with an incredible product that remains one step ahead of Ultrabooks. This is a brilliant, beautiful and useful laptop.
Highs Excellent user interface Light and portable Bright, beautiful display Snappy performance Competitive starting price Best bundled software in the business Lows Limited port selection Merely adequate battery life Squeaking space bar Editors' Recommendations Here’s more proof that Apple is wrong about MacBook memory MacBook Pro M3: Should you choose the M3, M3 Pro, or M3 Max? Apple’s M3 Max appears to keep up with Intel’s top desktop CPU Why the MacBook Air is still stuck on the M2 I saw the new Space Black MacBook Pro, and it’s stunning Apple Apple Laptop Reviews Laptops Mac Mac Reviews Product Reviews Computing Apple announced an update to its MacBook Pros at today's Scary Fast event that brings the M3, M3 Pro, and M3 Max under the hood. That might sound like a ho-hum generational chip refresh, especially coming just 10 months after the M2 Pro/Max models came out. But trust me -- these new MacBook Pros have become an unstoppable force, especially the new full-tilt model with the M3 Max.
The 14-inch MacBook Pro (which replaces the 13-inch MacBook Pro) will now have the option for the M3, M3 Pro, or M3 Max, while the 16-inch model gets the M3 Pro and an even more powerful M3 Max configuration. Across the board, these new M3 chips are built on the new 3nm technology, the same that's used in the new iPhone 15 models, only scaled up for the Mac. It's all about efficiency, with Apple claiming that the M3 chips provides the same performance at 30% less power.
Computing Apple's unexpected "Scary Fast" event has wrapped, and the 30-minute presentation was packed full of announcements. Headlining the showcase was Apple's new M3 chip, which is showing up in a variety of devices in just a week from now.
We have the lowdown on everything Apple announced at its unprecedented fall event, which kicks off the third generation of Apple's silicon with two major product updates.
M3 family of chips Computing Is it time to buy a new laptop? Then you've come to the right place, as we've gathered some of the best laptop deals that you can shop for today. We've picked laptops for different budgets and needs, ranging from low-priced devices to high-end machines, including Chromebook deals, gaming laptop deals, and MacBook deals. You're going to have to hurry with your purchase if any of these offers catch your eye, though, because we're not sure how much time you've got left to take advantage of them.
HP Stream 14 -- $199, was $229 The HP stream tells you exactly what it does in the name, which is to give you a budget-friendly device that you can use to stream content or use cloud apps. That means that the specs aren't that powerful, with a budget Intel Celeron N4020 processor, 4GB of RAM, and 64GB of storage. Luckily, you do get a great 14-inch touchscreen monitor for easier navigation, and the overall build is pretty good for a budget device. As for battery life, expect around six hours or so, depending on your usage, so it will be good for a good chunk of the day before recharging.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
