Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Reviews Apple MacBook Air 13-inch (2013) review By Matthew S. Smith Close $1,099.00 Good build quality Long battery life Extremely quick solid-state storage Design is now just average Limited port selection Low-resolution display with no option to upgrade PC alternatives are a better value Apple’s WWDC 2013 gave us a revised MacBook Air , but the revision didn’t go as far as expected. Retina, considered an obvious upgrade by some , didn’t make its way to the Air, nor was the chassis itself redesigned. Instead, Apple has just upgraded what’s inside.
“Just” may be too weak of a word, however, because the hardware update consists of Intel’s new Haswell architecture and the 4th-generation Core processors based on it. The Apple MacBook Air was the first laptop on the market to offer a dual-core 4th-gen processor, and, at the time of this review’s publication, still has few PC peers.
While the new architecture is the Air’s most significant update, it’s not the only one. Apple also dropped the 11-inch model with 64GB drive in favor of an 11-inch model with a 128GB drive (without increasing the price), and also lowered the price of the 13-inch Air to $1,100, a price drop of $200. Though perhaps not innovative, this is still significant, as computers rarely receive new hardware and a price drop simultaneously.
Then again, the lowered price may be necessary. The design of the current Air dates all the way back to late 2011.
 Can Apple’s aging laptop keep up with the latest Ultrabooks? You’ve seen this before Though Apple changed the internals, the 2013 model is aesthetically no different from previous years. The laptop’s simple, silver exterior remains among the most elegant in the business, and the chassis tapers forward to a sharp, definitive point. Give the Air a few moments on a grinder and you’d be able to dice vegetables with it.
The Air’s age is starting to show, however. When unboxed this laptop from the rear and momentarily thought we’d picked up a Pro with Retina by accident. Less than a tenth of an inch separates the maximum thickness of the 13-inch Pro with Retina and the 13-inch Air, and while the latter does taper to a much thinner edge, the difference between them is no longer impressive. More importantly, the Air no longer feels remarkably thin next to PC competitors like the Acer Aspire S7 and Dell XPS 13.
Apple’s design also lacks the “wow” factor that used to separate it from the pack. When the original MacBook Pro and Air hit the market, they re-invented how a premium laptop should look and feel. Now, several years later, the competition has caught up. Most Ultrabooks offer a similar look and similar quality.
Seeking ports Connectivity is an area where the Air clearly lags behind the competition. Only two USB 3.0 ports are available, along with a combo headphone/microphone jack, a Thunderbolt port, and an SD card reader.
There’s nothing about the Air that’s explicitly bad , but there’s far too much about it that’s merely “meh.” Good keys, but the touchpad surprises The Air’s keyboard isn’t the best available, but it defeats most Ultrabooks on the market. Key caps are large, key feel is above average, and there’s good separation between each individual key. OS X provides an edge by enabling useful shortcuts that simply aren’t available on a Windows PC.
Backlighting is standard and works extremely well. There’s almost no light-leak from beneath the keys and brightness can be adjusted with excellent detail.
Past versions of this laptop have received praise for their touchpad, but it no longer feels particularly large, premium, or smooth compared to the best Ultrabook competitors. We’re still a fan of OS X’s gesture support, however, and the touchpad’s surface provides plenty of room to navigate via swipe, pinch, and waggle.
Need more pixels, please The MacBook Air 13-inch comes with a 1440 x 900 display. Though that’s a respectable resolution, most Ultrabook competitors above $1,000 now ship with a 1080p display, which puts Apple at a bit of a disadvantage. The difference in pixel density is noticeable in certain situations. Small font on a document or webpage, for example, often renders with a ragged, haphazard look.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Competitors caught up in image quality, too. Our normal benchmark won’t work with OS X, so we can’t judge the display from a purely objective standpoint. Subjectively, however, the Air lacks contrast and suffers from limited viewing angles. The display’s saving grace is brightness, which can be turned up so high that outdoors use is possible (if not enjoyable).
Audiophiles won’t be pleased with the Air’s sound system. Though generally clear, deep bass can cause distortion, and maximum volume is adequate at best. Anyone planning to watch movies or listen to music should buy a pair headphones or external speakers.
A portable pleasure At a weight of three pounds, and with a thickness of up to 17mm, the Air is no longer the sultan of slim. Losing the crown does rob the laptop of something that made it special. At the same time, however, it’s not as if this system is chunky. In fact, most Ultrabooks are still a bit thicker and a bit heavier, despite the fact that Apple’s design has been on the market for almost three years.
Even with the price cut, the Air’s inferior display and merely adequate hard drive capacity hinder its overall value.
The 2013 model gained battery life – and a lot of it. Apple claims maximum endurance has made an incredible leap from seven to 12 hours, though that’s representative of a best-case scenario. The Peacekeeper browser benchmark ate through the Air’s battery in six hours and 45 minutes, which is about an hour and a half better than an average Ultrabook. Only Toshiba’s Kirabook and the HP Envy x2 last longer.
We were surprised to see our wattmeter report that the Air consumes 14 watts at idle (with screen at maximum brightness) and 34 watts at full load. These figures are worse than the average Ultrabook. Without another Haswell laptop to reference, we can’t be sure of why these results were so unimpressive, but we suspect either OS X power management or the display is to blame.
Haswell for mobile arrives Our base model MacBook Air 13-inch boasts a Core i5-4250U processor, 4GB of RAM, and Intel HD 4600 graphics. None of our normal benchmarks work with OS X, so we loaded Windows 8 via Boot Camp to perform our tests.
SiSoft Sandra’s Processor Arithmetic benchmark came to a result of 39 GOPS, and 7-Zip turned in a final score of 7,174 MIPS. These numbers are adequate, yet a bit worse than the average 3rd-gen mobile Core processor. The i5-4250U’s low maximum clock speed of 1.9 GHz (with a base of 1.3 GHz) can be blamed. The Core i5-3427U, used in the previous Air, had a Turbo boost maximum of 2.8 GHz. That’s right; the new Air is slower than the old one.
Image used with permission by copyright holder PCMark 7 redeemed the processor by posting an excellent score of 5,144. Anything above 5,000 is extremely good, and the Air is only the third laptop – after the Kirabook and Sony Vaio T14 – we’ve tested to vault over that mark. The excellent score is largely propelled by the system’s astoundingly quick solid-state storage. Apple’s decision to ditch SATA hard drives may make its laptops more difficult to repair, but the performance benefit is clear.
The Air is also our first chance to test Haswell’s Intel HD 4600 graphics in a mobile format, and we’re happy to report IGP performance is strong. 3DMark managed a score of 4,492 in the Cloud Gate Bench and 774 in Fire Strike. These numbers represent a gain of over 50 percent compared to 3rd-gen Intel Core mobile processors with Intel HD 4000. Most games available for Mac will perform well on this laptop.
Reasonably cool and quiet Past versions of this laptop have at times had issues with heat. That’s a thing of the past, however, as we never recorded an external temperature above 97.1 degrees Fahrenheit while stress-testing the new Air. More mundane use barely warms the laptop’s bottom, which makes it more comfortable to use in any situation.
The system fan doesn’t drone to cool the internals, either. At idle the fan isn’t loud enough to register on our decibel meter, and noise at full load reaches just 44.8dB. That’s noticeable, to be sure, but tolerable for most users.
Conclusion The 13-inch Air’s new $1,100 starting price undercuts competitors like the ASUS Zenbook X31A-DH71 and Acer Aspire S7 , but it puts Apple in an uncomfortable position. For the first time in years, the company is selling based on price rather than quality.
Even with the price cut, the Air’s inferior display and merely adequate hard drive capacity hinder its overall value. An Asus Zenbook may be $100 to $150 more (for the newest model), but it offers double the storage and a 1080p display. Then there’s Lenovo’s Yoga , which offers a convertible form-factor, superior specifications and a better keyboard at the same $1,100 price point. Or, consider the Dell XPS 13, which is much more expensive (with the 1080p panel) but boasts an amazing display and carbon fiber chassis.
There’s nothing about the Air that’s explicitly bad , but there’s far too much about it that’s merely “meh.” With the Apple’s own Pro with Retina now only slightly thicker, and numerous Ultrabooks available, this entry-level Mac has become hard to recommend to anyone except consumers who want OS X but can’t afford a Pro.
Highs Good build quality Long battery life Extremely quick solid-state storage Lows Design is now just average Limited port selection Low-resolution display with no option to upgrade PC alternatives are a better value Editors' Recommendations Here’s more proof that Apple is wrong about MacBook memory MacBook Pro M3: Should you choose the M3, M3 Pro, or M3 Max? Apple’s M3 Max appears to keep up with Intel’s top desktop CPU Why the MacBook Air is still stuck on the M2 I saw the new Space Black MacBook Pro, and it’s stunning Apple Apple Laptop Reviews Laptops Mac Reviews Product Reviews Computing Apple announced an update to its MacBook Pros at today's Scary Fast event that brings the M3, M3 Pro, and M3 Max under the hood. That might sound like a ho-hum generational chip refresh, especially coming just 10 months after the M2 Pro/Max models came out. But trust me -- these new MacBook Pros have become an unstoppable force, especially the new full-tilt model with the M3 Max.
The 14-inch MacBook Pro (which replaces the 13-inch MacBook Pro) will now have the option for the M3, M3 Pro, or M3 Max, while the 16-inch model gets the M3 Pro and an even more powerful M3 Max configuration. Across the board, these new M3 chips are built on the new 3nm technology, the same that's used in the new iPhone 15 models, only scaled up for the Mac. It's all about efficiency, with Apple claiming that the M3 chips provides the same performance at 30% less power.
Computing Apple's unexpected "Scary Fast" event has wrapped, and the 30-minute presentation was packed full of announcements. Headlining the showcase was Apple's new M3 chip, which is showing up in a variety of devices in just a week from now.
We have the lowdown on everything Apple announced at its unprecedented fall event, which kicks off the third generation of Apple's silicon with two major product updates.
M3 family of chips Computing Is it time to buy a new laptop? Then you've come to the right place, as we've gathered some of the best laptop deals that you can shop for today. We've picked laptops for different budgets and needs, ranging from low-priced devices to high-end machines, including Chromebook deals, gaming laptop deals, and MacBook deals. You're going to have to hurry with your purchase if any of these offers catch your eye, though, because we're not sure how much time you've got left to take advantage of them.
HP Stream 14 -- $199, was $229 The HP stream tells you exactly what it does in the name, which is to give you a budget-friendly device that you can use to stream content or use cloud apps. That means that the specs aren't that powerful, with a budget Intel Celeron N4020 processor, 4GB of RAM, and 64GB of storage. Luckily, you do get a great 14-inch touchscreen monitor for easier navigation, and the overall build is pretty good for a budget device. As for battery life, expect around six hours or so, depending on your usage, so it will be good for a good chunk of the day before recharging.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
