Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? MacBook Pro 15 (with Touch Bar): Our first take Apple's Touch Bar is like having an iPhone built into your MacBook By Malarie Gokey Close Apple’s new OLED Touch Bar will make you want to touch every part of the Macbook Pro.
It’s been four long years since Apple released a new MacBook Pro. Finally, there are three new Pro models on the market, two of which sport a brand-new OLED Touch Bar with Touch ID support for added security and mobile payments.
We peeked at the 15-inch MacBook Pro with Touch Bar to find out if it’s the update Mac fanatics have eagerly been waiting for.
Slimmed down design with flatter keys The new MacBook Pro line is much slimmer and lighter than previous Pro models. The 15-inch laptop is 15.5mm thin, making it slimmer than the thickest point of the 13-inch MacBook Air. It’s still not as slim as some Windows laptops , but it’s a big difference for current MacBook Pro users. The new 15-inch Pro weighs in at four pounds, while the 13-inch model weighs 3 pounds – the same as the 13-inch MacBook AIr.
The screen is much slimmer than it is on previous MacBook models, and the Apple logo no longer lights up. That’s to conserve space, of course, and the new logo is polished to a shine, just like it is on the iPhone and iPad. The screen looks bright and luminous, the color gamut has been improved, and the brightness is way higher. In fact, it’s almost doubled, jumping up to 500 nits.
If you’re looking for all your favorite ports on this MacBook Pro, you’re going to be disappointed. You only get four USB Type- C ports with Thunderbolt 3 support; two on each side. There’s no SD crad slot, no Ethernet, and no USB Type-A ports. There is, however, a headphone jack (yay!), and you do get four ports instead of just the one like you had on the 12-inch MacBook.
Apple has increased the size of the Force Touch trackpad, and it looks enormous on the 15-inch model. You have a lot of room to roam on that trackpad and Force Touch works well.
The backlit keyboard is an updated version of the flat keyboard we saw on the 12-inch MacBook. It has a bit more travel now, though, and you can feel the keys depress ever so slightly more. If you’ve ever used the MacBook, you probably thought it felt stiff. The keys feel better on the new Macbook Pro models, but they certainly do travel less than on the previous Pro model. That leaves us a bit concerned, as keyboard quality was our biggest beef with the 12-inch MacBook.
The Touch Bar is about more than just touch The star of the show is clearly the Touch Bar. It changes every time you jump into another app to give you customizable tools that you can use with your fingers. If you go to Finder and then View, you can customize the Touch Bar. To add functions and tools, you simply drag them down toward the Touch Bar. The Touch Bar also shows you all the function keys that have been removed and gives you quick access to Siri.
In Messages, the Touch Bar gives you autocorrect suggestions, and it will even bring up emoji that you use a lot. Autocorrect may be the bane of your existence, or it may save you from a boatload of typos. We’ll have to see how helpful it is in everyday use, but it certainly looked great at a glance.
The new MacBook Pro goes a long way toward rehabilitating Apple’s reputation among computer geeks.
Every time I used the Touch Bar, it felt like using an iPhone. it was super-fast, smooth, and responsive. The tools presented in each app were useful, and a lot of them are clearly inspired by iOS. When you go into Photos, you can scroll through thumbnails on the Touch Bar just like you can on the iPhone. You get the same editing options and slider bars for tweaking your photos. Anyone who owns an iPhone will feel right at home with the Touch Bar.
We’re excited to see more third-party apps tap into the Touch bar’s potential, and Apple told Digital Trends that it’s had a lot of interest already. Key partners like Adobe and Microsoft are already onboard. We didn’t get to test those apps out today, but the keynote highlighted how those two companies are using the new Touch Bar interface.
It could be slightly wider to accommodate bigger text, tools, thumbnails, and sliders. When browsing photos, for example, the thumbnails displayed aren’t useful as a preview. Then again, you don’t need to see the thumbnails, since all the action takes place on the big screen.
Touch is simply a more natural way of interacting with apps. That’s why phones and tablets are so popular. It’s also why Windows went with touch, and there we found what might be the biggest problem with the Touch Bar. We often tried to touch the screen after using it. The instinct to do so is a natural urge, and it suddenly feels strange that the MacBook Pro’s screen is unresponsive when pressed.
Malarie Gokey/Digital Trends There’s more to the Touch Bar than touch input, though. It also houses the first fingerprint sensor on a MacBook. Yes, the MacBook Pro has Touch ID with Apple Pay onboard. Online shopping has never been easier. You can visit your favorite store’s website on Safari, and if they have Apple Pay integrated, you simply select, “Apple Pay” at checkout, and you’ll be prompted to press your finger to the sensor to buy your items. It’s as easy and seamless as it is on the iPhone. And that’s not all the Touch ID sensor can do.
Just like on the iPhone, Touch ID lets you log into your MacBook Pro. You can set different people’s fingerprints to different accounts on the Pro, so each time you want to log in, you simply touch your finger and you’re into your account. No more passwords. This is great on a shared computer at home, but it’ll also be a good one for business travelers who want to keep their devices safe.
Finally! 6th Gen Intel chips and more power hit the Macbook Pro Both the 13-inch and 15-inch MacBook Pro models received a modest internal refresh with sixth-generation “Skylake” Core i5 and i7 processors inside (dual-core on the 13-inch, quad-core on the 15-inch).
Every time I used the Touch Bar, it felt like using an iPhone.
As in the past, Apple has opted for Intel chips that are a bit different from those most common in Windows laptops. The 13-inch MacBook Pro without Touch Bar is standard with Intel’s Core i5-6360U, which can boost up to 3.1GHz. Upgrade to the 13-inch MacBook Pro with Touch Bar and you’ll get the Core i5-6267U, with a boost clock of up to 3.3GHz. In addition to that, the Core i5-6267U has a higher thermal design power than most mobile Intel dual-core chips – up to 28 watts, from the more typical 15 watts. This means the Core i5-6267U can draw in more juice to provide better performance. In the past, this has given the smaller MacBook Pro a bit of an edge over Intel laptops.
Also, both 13-inch models use Intel Iris graphics. That’s why Apple picked the 6 th -gen Intel dual-core rather than the newer 7 th -gen. Intel hasn’t released 7 th -gen Core with Iris graphics yet.
The 15-inch MacBook Pro we looked at comes standard with an Intel Core i7-6700HQ, which isn’t a particularly new chip. Intel hasn’t released 7 th -generation quad-cores, either, so they are missing in action. Apple has packed in cutting-edge graphics, though, in the form of AMD’s Radeon 450 Pro with up to 2GB of memory. This is upgradable to a Radeon Pro 455 with 2GB of memory, or a Radeon Pro 460 with 4GB memory. All these solutions use AMD’s new “Polaris” architecture. It’s hard to say how fast these solutions are, because this hardware is new to laptops, but it’s sure to be a big improvement over the ancient Radeon R9 M370X available before.
Both new Pros boast increased storage space, up to 2TB, with up to 16GB of RAM.
 Apple says the storage can hit transfer rates up to 3.1 gigabytes per second which, if correct, will certainly be at the bleeding edge of laptop performance.
Malarie Gokey/Digital Trends In our short time with the new MacBook Pro, we found them to be fast, and were impressed with the complete lack of lag when going from Sleep to Wake mode. The MacBook wakes up so quickly, we never saw the screen change. Obviously, we were unable to fully test the new Pros with games or other processor-intensive apps, so we’ll hold off on pronouncing a verdict on speed or performance at this point.
Apple says the battery on all new MacBook Pro models should last about 10 hours. That’s one area Apple hasn’t improved. In fact, the new, slimmer MacBook Pro models have much smaller batteries than before. The 13-inch MacBook Pro with Touch Bar is down to 74.9 watt-hours to 49.2 watt-hours, while the 15-inch MacBook Pro with Touch Bar is down from 99.5 watt-hours to 74 watt-hours. Apple clearly hopes its new, more efficient internals will offset this substantial decrease in raw capacity.
Conclusion The new MacBook Pros won’t come cheap. The non-Touch Bar 13-inch model costs $1,500 and up, the 13-inch with the Touch Bar costs $1,800 and up, and the 15-inch Touch Bar models starts at $2,400.
We think the new MacBook Pro goes a long way toward rehabilitating Apple’s reputation among computer geeks. Still, the company will need to update its MacBook more frequently to keep up with user demand and the changing market. Windows has snuck right in there and Microsoft’s partners are making slim, stylish laptops that are thinner, lighter, and sometimes more powerful than the MacBook lineup.
However, Apple still has some tricks up its sleeves and a loyal MacOS fan base that’ll be very pleased with the new MacBook Pro models. The Touch Bar is ingenious and very intriguing. If Apple and its developer partners can successfully integrate the Touch Bar into your Mac workflow, it could become the killer feature every Mac fan craves.
Highs A slimmer, lighter design Touch Bar is genius Touch ID adds security Apple Pay work great Giant trackpad Lows Keyboard may be divisive Still lacks a touchscreen Much smaller battery than before Editors' Recommendations Here’s more proof that Apple is wrong about MacBook memory MacBook Pro M3: Should you choose the M3, M3 Pro, or M3 Max? Apple’s M3 Max appears to keep up with Intel’s top desktop CPU Why the MacBook Air is still stuck on the M2 I saw the new Space Black MacBook Pro, and it’s stunning Apple Apple Laptops Mac Mac Reviews Computing Apple announced an update to its MacBook Pros at today's Scary Fast event that brings the M3, M3 Pro, and M3 Max under the hood. That might sound like a ho-hum generational chip refresh, especially coming just 10 months after the M2 Pro/Max models came out. But trust me -- these new MacBook Pros have become an unstoppable force, especially the new full-tilt model with the M3 Max.
The 14-inch MacBook Pro (which replaces the 13-inch MacBook Pro) will now have the option for the M3, M3 Pro, or M3 Max, while the 16-inch model gets the M3 Pro and an even more powerful M3 Max configuration. Across the board, these new M3 chips are built on the new 3nm technology, the same that's used in the new iPhone 15 models, only scaled up for the Mac. It's all about efficiency, with Apple claiming that the M3 chips provides the same performance at 30% less power.
Computing Apple's unexpected "Scary Fast" event has wrapped, and the 30-minute presentation was packed full of announcements. Headlining the showcase was Apple's new M3 chip, which is showing up in a variety of devices in just a week from now.
We have the lowdown on everything Apple announced at its unprecedented fall event, which kicks off the third generation of Apple's silicon with two major product updates.
M3 family of chips Computing I know plenty of people walk into Apple Stores and buy a MacBook right off the shelf because they need one. I get it.
But if you're considering a purchase of a MacBook Pro, in particular, it'll really pay off to pump the brakes. Apple is holding a surprise product launch event next Monday, and if the rumors are to be believed, all three MacBook Pros are going to get updated. Upgrading all three at once would be an unprecedented way to upgrade these laptops for Apple as it simultaneously launches the M3, M3 Pro, and M3 Max chips.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
