Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Reviews Apple MacBook 2009 Review By Nick Mokey Close Attractive and sturdy unibody design Enormous multi-touch trackpad Respectable five-hour real-life runtime Comfortable keyboard Bright, attractive LED-backlit screen Superb desktop performance No swappable battery Bare minimum of ports Significantly heavier than competitors Glare from glossy screen Introduction All hail the unibody. After the well-received launch of its new MacBook Pros last year, which substituted many interlocking pieces for a single, one-piece chassis, Apple has carried over the unibody approach to the cheaper, $999 MacBook. The aluminum gives way to boring white plastic, but specs and design remain remarkably similar. Is it worth the $200 price drop to go for the plastic? We find out.
Build and Design Those familiar with the 13.3-inch MacBook Pro will immediately feel at home on the MacBook version, which sports a similar rounded-edge profile, LED-backlit screen, and even the skating-rink-sized glass trackpad. The main difference, as most people will immediately spot, is the choice of materials. This baby’s all plastic.
Apple builds the MacBook from a single chunk of polycarbonate – the same rigid material you might know from Nalgene bottles, CDs, and even bulletproof windows. It’s tough, and the MacBook shows it. From the sculpted edges to the very center, which can typically feel a little soggy on cheap notebooks, the MacBook feels, well, bulletproof. The same solidification that happened on the MacBook Pro carries right over to plastic version, and we love it just the same.
Sometimes, Apple can’t quite seem to decide whether to favor style or comfort. On one hand, engineers have given the bottom a rubberized feel that keeps it from scraping around on desks and feels soft in the lap. On the other, the edges of the notebook when it’s open still feel unnecessarily sharp – a complaint carried over from the last generation.
At 1.08 inches thick and 4.7 pounds on the scale, the MacBook is both fatter than the 0.95-inch MacBook Pro, and heavier. It wears the extra fraction of an inch well, but the weight gets a little embarrassing for this size class: You can find some well-equipped 14.1-inch notebooks with similar weight, and even inexpensive 13.3 inchers like HP’s ProBook manage to land around 3.8 pounds. Tough has a price, and you’ll feel it in the extra tug on your messenger bag.
Specifications and Features The outside of this notebook isn’t the only thing it shares with its spendier siblings: The hardware inside looks very similar, too. Both use Intel Core 2 Duo processors clocked at 2.26Ghz, 2GB of DDR3 RAM , and Nvidia’s GeForce 9400M graphics processor. When it comes to storage, the MacBook actually has a leg up on the Pro, offering 250GB to the Pro’s 160GB.
Finish Apple may pump out iPod Nanos in every shade of the rainbow, but MacBook buyers get just one choice: gloss white. It hides fingerprints with ease, but it also tends to show off little bits of dirt and lint. And as anyone who has ever trekked along with a Nalgene bottle knows, polycarbonate loves to collect scratches.
Keyboard We’re not typically fans of Chiclet-style keyboards, which always seem to lack the satisfying click of traditional models, but Apple’s is one of the best in the business. The soft matte-white keys feel velvety under the fingers, exhibit a clean springiness, and look pretty darn good, too. Unlike the MacBook Pro, they don’t light up at night, though, and the MacBook has no overhead LED for illumination, so you’ll be left to type by the light of the backlight.
Display Cold-cathode backlights, be gone. Just as it did with the MacBook Pro, Apple has changed the backlight on the new MacBook over to LEDs, which use less power and reach full brightness instantly, eliminating the dim, hazy look of a just-powered-on laptop screen. The screen looks spectacular dead on, but seems to exhibit a rather limited viewing angle as you angle it up and down – you’ll want to adjust it carefully to make sure you’re viewing things as they’re meant to be seen. And like all glossy screens, be prepared for an explosion of glare outside or just seated near windows.
Ports and Connections The barebones selection of connections on a netbook almost look generous beside the MacBook, which has been pared down to the bare essentials, and then some. Although it includes a slot-loading optical drive where a netbook has none, it offers no dedicated analog microphone input (the headphone jack has to be switched using software), no SD card slot, and a mini DisplayPort connector, which can’t actually be used for connecting anything without a $29 adapter. Two USB ports look quite lonely beside netbooks that usually offer three, and since they’re both on the same side and only millimeters apart, oversized devices like thumb drives and 3G modems will prevent them from being used at the same time. Even Apple’s beloved FireWire port has been axed, leaving this notebook neutered..
Accessories Inside Apple’s silky white box, you’ll find the same MagSafe power adapter all MacBooks use, which disconnects easily from the notebook in the event you trip over it or walk away with it still connected. Since the power jack is on the side of the laptop, rather than the rear, the cable now terminates at a right angle, a small but clever change that helps keep it out of the way. The small power brick can either connect to the wall directly (which will block out adjacent outlets) or connect with a sturdy, meter-long cable, thanks to a clever swappable plug system.
Trackpad Much like the MacBook Pro, the MacBook now offers a gigantic multi-touch trackpad with no buttons – the entire thing depresses like one big button. The sheer size of the pad combined with its stick-free surface makes it an absolute pleasure to use, and multi-touch gestures only sweeten the deal even further. Drag all four fingers down, for instance, and it opens Expose.
Performance The Intel Core 2 Duo and Nvidia GeForce 9400M in the MacBook give it some definite kick, especially when coupled with a refined operating system like Snow Leopard. After pressing the power button, it reaches the desktop in only 25 seconds – a sickening display of speed beside many Windows notebooks, even those with Windows 7. And around the desktop, it’s just as snappy, even after getting loaded down with Safari tabs, IM windows, and whatever else you can throw at it. Although OS X suffers from a distinct lack of game titles, the 9400M will even handle titles from a few years back, like Quake 4, without breaking a sweat.
Battery Unlike previous-generation MacBooks, which used swappable lithium-ion batteries, the newest MacBook uses a lithium-polymer battery sealed up inside, eliminating the ability to slap in a fresh battery when one runs down (or even servicing the notebook yourself when the battery inevitably dies). Fortunately, battery life has improved as well, with Apple promising a seven-hour run time. Like all estimates, it’s tilted toward the high end, and assumes you won’t use every feature, but we reached five hours quite easily with more realistic operating conditions, including the screen at full brightness and Wi-Fi cranking.
Conclusion Apple’s crack team of Cupertino engineers have done it again. The new MacBook rocks. Besides the lack of a swappable battery (which can be seen as negligible for most folks), it improves upon the last generation device in every way, without adding so much as a penny to the reasonable $999 price tag. Hardcore travelers might want to look around to find a lighter notebook, but unless you’re going to have it strapped to your back for days on end, amenities like a giant multi-touch trackpad and rock-solid build quality will likely justify this fatty’s extra weight.
Editors' Recommendations Here’s more proof that Apple is wrong about MacBook memory MacBook Pro M3: Should you choose the M3, M3 Pro, or M3 Max? Shopping at Apple this holiday season? You should know this 7 trackpad gestures for Mac that everyone should know How to watch Apple’s ‘Scary Fast’ Mac launch event if you missed it Apple Laptop Reviews Laptops Mac Mac Reviews Product Reviews Computing Apple just did something surprising. At its "Scary Fast" launch event, Apple announced a new chip, the M3.
But rather than introduce it in a MacBook Air like it did with the M1 and M2, this event was all about the MacBook Pro. The MacBook Air was inconspicuously missing.
Computing It's not often that MacBook Pros get new color options. But with this most recent update to M3 chips, the MacBook Pro will add Space Black, a color that first appeared on the iPhone, to the mix. I was shown an early preview of the new color ahead of the "Scary Fast" launch event, and I have to say: I'm smitten.
This new Space Black is not true black, of course. In truth, it's a slightly darker gray than Space Gray, which it replaces. And it's a good thing this isn't true black. Because remember, this is aluminum, and Apple isn't just slapping a coating or layer of paint on here like so many laptop manufacturers do when making true black aluminum laptops. These laptops, such as most gaming laptops or even something like the Surface Laptop, tend to scratch easily and fade over time.
Computing Apple announced an update to its MacBook Pros at today's Scary Fast event that brings the M3, M3 Pro, and M3 Max under the hood. That might sound like a ho-hum generational chip refresh, especially coming just 10 months after the M2 Pro/Max models came out. But trust me -- these new MacBook Pros have become an unstoppable force, especially the new full-tilt model with the M3 Max.
The 14-inch MacBook Pro (which replaces the 13-inch MacBook Pro) will now have the option for the M3, M3 Pro, or M3 Max, while the 16-inch model gets the M3 Pro and an even more powerful M3 Max configuration. Across the board, these new M3 chips are built on the new 3nm technology, the same that's used in the new iPhone 15 models, only scaled up for the Mac. It's all about efficiency, with Apple claiming that the M3 chips provides the same performance at 30% less power.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
