Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Reviews Apple Mac Pro and Pro Display XDR: First look The Mac Pro and Pro Display XDR: First look at Apple's latest products By Julian Chokkattu Close I want it. No, not Craig Federighi’s hair. I’m talking about Apple’s new 6K, 32-inch Pro Display XDR.
 It’s a jaw-droppingly beautiful screen, and its reveal at WWDC 2019 was paired with the new Mac Pro , which is equally stunning in its own way.
Powerful is an understatement You need an equally-stunning screen It’s not for you I didn’t get a chance to lay a finger on either of these two new products from Apple, but boy did I ogle. Here are a few first impressions just from standing mere inches away from these thousand-dollar machines.
Powerful is an understatement The new Mac Pro and Pro Display XDR will take your breath away. The former, not so much in design but in sheer power, and the latter with its insanely bright screen. Let’s start with the Mac Pro; yes, it looks like a cheese grater. It’s inevitably the first thing that comes to mind. There’s even a handle at the top! Jokes aside, there’s a reason for the design, and it has everything to do with heat dissipation, as it maximizes airflow and keeps the Mac Pro quiet. I watched the machine churn away several intensive tasks and then put my ear close to it — I couldn’t hear anything, despite the three massive fans and a blower inside. Granted, I was in a loud area, but I probably would have still heard the loud whir of a MacBook Air.
The handles at the top are to help hold the Mac Pro, and the case has an option to add wheels if you want to roll it around. You can even rack mount it if so desired. There’s a d-latch at the top that you rotate and lift up to remove the stainless steel housing, delivering 360-degree access to the Mac Pro’s internals. Why? Because it’s modular. You can replace and add components easily, with Apple bringing PCIe expansion slots back into the fray. With eight slots total, the Mac Pro offers a truly customizable experience that can’t be found elsewhere in the Mac ecosystem.
Inside, you get an Intel 8-core Xeon processor with 32 GB of RAM powering the Mac Pro, but that’s just the base model. It can go all the way to a 28-core Xeon processor, with a whopping 1.5 TB of RAM.
 Similarly, there’s a 256GB SSD by default, but you can bump that up to 4TB if so desired. The ability to just keep adding more power to the Mac Pro makes it daunting but insanely impressive. This is the kind of Mac Pro some people have been anticipating for over ten years now.
Simply put, the Mac Pro can handle anything.
There’s also Apple’s MPX Module, which houses the graphics card.
 The base option comes with an AMD Radeon 580X, but you can go all the way up to Radeon Pro Vega II Duo, which means there are two Radeon Pro Vega II cards, and a ridiculous 28 teraflops of graphics performance. Apple says the module itself uses adds a secondary connector to the standard PCIe connector to integrate Thunderbolt all throughout the system for extra power. Even more impressively, this module is completely fanless, relying on one massive heat sink to keep things cool. Simply put, the Mac Pro can handle anything — without sounding like a typical gaming PC.
And we’re not even done. There’s an accelerator card called the Afterburner that you can add, which pushes video workflow ahead even more. With it, Apple said you can have three streams of 8K video going, or 12 streams of 4K video as you edit. Overkill? Probably not for the people who actually have the money to buy the Mac Pro.
As for the ports, there are two Thunderbolt 3 ports at the top and two at the back; 2 USB-A ports, a 3.5mm headphone jack, 2 10-gigabit Ethernet ports, as well as a 1.4-kilowatt power supply unit to keep everything churning.
Walking through several demo areas of professionals showing off the Mac Pro’s capabilities, the Mac Pro never ceased to amaze. I heard an artist explaining how the power of the Mac Pro allowed him to render an image in real time — he didn’t need to take a coffee break while waiting for his computer to finish the process anymore. I heard a music composer explain how he didn’t need multiple computers to do his work anymore; just the Mac Pro.
You need an equally-stunning screen What’s the point of incredible performance if the screen you’re using is subpar? That’s where the new Pro Display XDR comes in. Apple finally has a display that doesn’t look stuck in the past. The new screen has thin edges all-around, and it looks ultra modern, and ultra sexy.
The 32-inch screen is insanely sharp thanks to a 6K resolution, and it’s plenty large for all sorts of workflows. If you’re coming from the 5K iMac, Apple said the new Pro Display is 40 percent larger. I do wish it curved a bit, but that’s my own personal preference. It’s really thick compared to most modern monitors , and if you look at the back, you’ll see a similar lattice design as the Mac Pro. Again, it’s to regulate heat — this time to keep the redesigned LED backlighting system cool.
But the spotlight feature is the XDR display. It’s a new acronym — as if we needed a new one — that stands for Extreme Dynamic Range.
 High Dynamic Range, or HDR , is what you’ll find on most other displays these days, and it allows you to see high-contrast images. The problem is that other computer monitors don’t get bright enough to match the standards of HDR like televisions do. XDR is Apple’s way of standing out, taking things a step further with extreme contrasts scenarios to deliver extreme brightness. You’ll get 1,000 nits of screen brightness indefinitely. On average, most monitors have a screen that can hit between 300-350 nits of brightness, so what Apple has done here is startlingly impressive. Better yet, peak brightness can go up to 1,600 nits, beating what most high-end televisions can achieve.
The new screen has thin edges all-around, and it looks ultra modern, and ultra sexy.
This high brightness really makes the screen come alive. The content on it is clear and easy to see, and the matte glass that Apple etched in via nanotech manufacturing meant I never saw a glare. It does cost an extra $1,000 for this matte version, though, so be warned.
The screen itself isn’t an OLED, but LCD, and you may be wondering about black levels. From the few images I looked at, blacks were deep and helped the colors pop, but comparing the screen against an OLED may better show the difference. Apple claims the monitor can produce a 1,000,000:1 contrast ratio, thanks to that new backlighting, which isn’t typically possible on a standard LED screen.
The stand is equally impressive. It’s called the Pro Stand, and it’s not included, but a $999 addition. It has a counterbalance that makes the screen easy to move up and down, and you can tilt the screen for the best angle. It’s detachable for easy transportation. Sadly, I wasn’t allowed to touch the screen so I couldn’t see how “weightless” the stand makes the monitor feel.
It’s not for you The Mac Pro starts at $5,999. The Pro Display XDR starts at $4,999. Those prices are just for the base models, and I’m afraid to hear what both cost after you max them out with all the bells and whistles. Safe to say, neither of these devices are for you , the average consumer. But they’re professional-grade machines that aren’t even for “prosumers” anymore, as the prices have jumped up significantly. The “trashcan” Mac Pro launched for just $3,000 back in 2013, which is $3,300 when adjusted for inflation.
These new Mac products are in another stratosphere, made for enterprise — for creative studios and large companies. It sadly may be a little too out of reach for prosumers. Nevertheless, the Mac Pro and Pro Display XDR do not fail to impress based on our initial impressions, but there’s a great deal more to unpack if we ever get to spend more time with them.
Editors' Recommendations The MacBook Pro M3 doesn’t have a memory problem — it has a pricing problem Apple just dashed our iMac hopes and dreams How to watch Apple’s ‘Scary Fast’ Mac launch event if you missed it The M3 Max makes the MacBook Pro look like a nearly unbeatable laptop Everything announced at Apple’s ‘Scary Fast’ event: iMac, M3, and more Apple Apple Apple WWDC Mac Reviews Computing I know plenty of people walk into Apple Stores and buy a MacBook right off the shelf because they need one. I get it.
But if you're considering a purchase of a MacBook Pro, in particular, it'll really pay off to pump the brakes. Apple is holding a surprise product launch event next Monday, and if the rumors are to be believed, all three MacBook Pros are going to get updated. Upgrading all three at once would be an unprecedented way to upgrade these laptops for Apple as it simultaneously launches the M3, M3 Pro, and M3 Max chips.
Computing Apple’s “Scary Fast” event is just around the corner, and we already know Macs will be the focus. But a claim has just been made that Apple will dedicate much of the October 30 show to Mac gaming, which could be good news for anyone who enjoys playing games on Apple’s computers.
That’s the assertion made by MacRumors, and the news outlet puts forward several pieces of evidence to back up its ideas. In the end, it makes a lot of sense -- but there’s still no definitive proof.
Computing Apple finally confirmed its next event for 5 p.m. PT on Monday, October 30, and it's where we expect the company to introduce new Macs. The event, which carries the tagline "Scary Fast," will be streamed on Apple's website and Apple TV, but that's just about all of the details we know about the event right now.
The teaser on Apple's website shifts between the Apple logo and the Finder logo, further suggesting Apple will be talking about new Macs. The announcement comes about a week after prominent Apple analyst Ming-Chi Kuo revealed that an upcoming refresh to Apple's 24-inch iMac had been delayed to 2024.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
