Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? MacOS High Sierra Review If you're looking for gold in MacOS High Sierra, you're going to have to dig By Jayce Wagner Close Another year, another MacOS update – and this new one is more of a refinement than an overhaul of Apple’s desktop operating system. Its predecessor, Sierra, introduced several quality-of-life improvements like Siri integration, Touch Bar support, and better disk management.
High Sierra , on the other hand, focuses on improvements that you might miss at first (or second) glance.
Let’s get high Yeah, it’s called “High Sierra.” The name is a reference to the scenic and ecologically diverse biome in California’s Sierra mountains , a combination of foothill woodlands, scrubland, and subalpine forest. But unlike its namesake, the new version of MacOS is a little desolate in attractive features.
The big changes are behind the scenes, and the biggest change comes to the file system itself.
Safari has been tweaked to improve performance. Mail compresses data better. And the Photos app synchronizes categories between devices, in addition to the photos themselves. These tweaks are fine, but they’re minor. We’d never notice they exist if Apple didn’t point them out.
In fact, after using the High Sierra developer and beta builds over the summer, the only major difference we noticed in day-to-day use was the fancy new wallpaper.
You really have to dig for the new High Sierra features — deep, in the darkest corners of your Mac , High Sierra begins its work, disassembling and re-assembling your files in its own image, optimizing and toiling away in obscurity. Let’s descend into the weird and arcane world of file systems.
HFS Plus Plus … Plus The big new feature in High Sierra comes in the way your Mac stores and retrieves data. Since time immemorial, Macs have used the hierarchical file system (HFS). Over the years Apple iterated on its original file system with HFS+, which is what was in use right up until MacOS High Sierra.
The new file system, aptly named the Apple File System (APFS), aims to get MacOS ready for the future by addressing several the issues plaguing HFS and HFS+. None of these are issues that most users would ever notice. Still, the changes introduced by APFS are a big deal, even if they’re not exactly going to revolutionize the way you use your Mac.
Image used with permission by copyright holder APFS is designed with SSDs in mind, so it’s able to handle a larger number of individual files. As the storage experts at Backblaze report, HFS+ is only capable of keeping track of about four billion individual files. That’s a lot, but given the ever-increasing size of the hard drives we have available to us, it’s an uncomfortable ceiling.
APFS remedies that by using 64-bit inodes, or file IDs, instead of 32-bit file IDs like HFS+. Because of that, APFS is capable of managing up to nine quintillion files on a single volume. Additionally, APFS now supports native single and multi-key encryption, which means you’ll be able to encrypt or decrypt individual files and folders without locking or unlocking your entire hard drive through FileVault.
That’s a lot of behind the scenes engineering, and it’s just the tip of the iceberg. APFS does a lot of cool stuff with your data, from modernizing file indexes, to lowering overall latency. Spotlight searches are a bit quicker than before, but that will vary based on what you’re searching for and how large your hard drive is. For most end-users, the biggest takeaways are pretty straightforward – with APFS your Mac will be faster, more secure, and ready to handle nine quintillion pictures of your cats.
On Safari Safari is still Safari. Apple has upped the ante with a couple new privacy and security features designed to improve your browsing experience, but the overall look and feel hasn’t changed.
Safari will now automatically stop autoplay videos from playing, if they have sound. Some sites slip through the cracks, but Safari now has a new options pane for manually disabling autoplay videos and content entirely, regardless of whether or not it has sound. Gone are the days of hunting for which tab is playing that irritating ad music. Safari will automatically take care of it.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Similarly, Safari now features “intelligent tracking prevention,” which will keep advertisers from harvesting your information to target ads based on your browsing history. It doesn’t block ads, but it keeps advertisers from tracking your every move online, so those adorable cat vests you look at every day won’t keep showing up at every single site you visit. Even if you secretly really like seeing cats in vests. There’s nothing wrong with that.
But as we said, Safari is still Safari. It works as it always has. If you like it, then you’ll continue to, and if you prefer Chrome, we don’t think these tweaks will change your mind.
Bringing photos to life High Sierra also features a revamped Photos app, which is now even better at recognizing your human friends and family, but still neglects your feline friends and family. Despite a notable lack of cat facial recognition, the new Photos app does have a few interesting new features to make editing your photos and managing your photo library a little easier.
The High Sierra version of the Photos app includes advanced editing options like selective color, and many easily applied filters, as well as expanding the existing Memories options. Now, you can create Memories slideshows for all kinds of activities and special events.
It’s not a groundbreaking feature, given you can just as easily to the same thing on Facebook , Twitter, Instagram, and Snapchat, but it’s nice you can do it right in the photos app.
There’s also many new organizational tools. Yes, at this point, we’re talking about sorting your photos like it’s a big new feature for the latest version of MacOS. That’s how sparse this update is. Tagging photos is literally a headline feature.
Wait, there’s more! You’ll be able to not only tag and organize your photos in the new Photos app, but also manipulate Live Photos from your compatible iOS device.
Try not to faint from excitement.
More human than human As Apple pushes deeper into the AI assistant market with its new HomePod speaker, Siri is receiving a number of upgrades to make her a little more competitive and, well, human. She still doesn’t respond to “Hey, Siri,” on Macs or MacBooks , but when you do click the new Siri icon, she springs to life with characteristic glee and uncharacteristically human vocals.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Her stilted and slightly staccato speaking style has been replaced with something a lot smoother, and a lot less recognizably artificial. It’s still clear Siri is a computer-generated voice, but smoothing out her vocal gait goes a long way toward making her a sound more companionable.
She also spies on you now. More than she used to. With deeper Apple Music integration, Siri will monitor your listening habits and try to predict what music you’d like to hear next. She’ll also respond to requests for particular kinds of music, and suggest music based on your preferences. Thankfully, she won’t automatically download music and store them on your devices forever without any way of removing them. Like that U2 album nobody wanted.
Heavy Metal Another big update you’ll hear mentioned in any discussion of High Sierra is the expansion of Apple’s graphics framework, Metal. It’s another behind-the-scenes upgrade, but because of its expanded capabilities, you’ll probably see a lot more VR content headed for MacOS. The new version of Metal supports VR and external GPUs but there’s a big asterisk there.
All right, your MacBook Pro or new-generation iMac has unofficially supported external GPU use if you run Windows through Boot Camp , but until now Apple hasn’t opened things up for external GPU use in MacOS. That changes with High Sierra, but it’s not as impressive as it sounds.
For video editing and other GPU-intensive workloads, sure, you will see some big performance improvements using an external GPU rig in MacOS. For gaming though, your mileage will vary, and your best bet is still running games in Windows 10 — via Boot Camp — even with an external GPU. Metal, and OpenCL just aren’t as efficient as DirectX. In short, your graphics card won’t have to work as hard running games in Windows 10 as it will running them in MacOS.
Conclusion MacOS High Sierra has a revamped file system that will help future-proof your Mac, but for the everyday end user, there’s just not much here. In our time with the developer preview and release candidate version of High Sierra, we didn’t see much that will make a difference for the average user.
We’re starting to question if Apple knows where the Mac is headed in a post-iPad world.
Of course, Mac fans should still download it when it comes out on September 25. It’s free, after all, and it has a ton of behind the scenes features. Just don’t be disappointed when you realize that High Sierra is just Sierra with an extra adjective.
Oh, and Siri has a new icon.
Highs New future-ready file system Improved Siri functionality A few ease-of-use improvements Lows Not very feature-rich Most updates are behind-the-scenes Editors' Recommendations The MacBook Pro M3 doesn’t have a memory problem — it has a pricing problem Apple’s M3 Max appears to keep up with Intel’s top desktop CPU How to watch Apple’s ‘Scary Fast’ Mac launch event if you missed it Everything announced at Apple’s ‘Scary Fast’ event: iMac, M3, and more The M3 iMac is here, but it’s missing its most requested change Apple Apple Apple WWDC Laptops Mac Mac Reviews Software Computing Apple finally confirmed its next event for 5 p.m. PT on Monday, October 30, and it's where we expect the company to introduce new Macs. The event, which carries the tagline "Scary Fast," will be streamed on Apple's website and Apple TV, but that's just about all of the details we know about the event right now.
The teaser on Apple's website shifts between the Apple logo and the Finder logo, further suggesting Apple will be talking about new Macs. The announcement comes about a week after prominent Apple analyst Ming-Chi Kuo revealed that an upcoming refresh to Apple's 24-inch iMac had been delayed to 2024.
Computing The will-they-won’t-they saga around Apple’s likelihood of releasing a refresh of the 24-inch iMac anytime soon took another twist on Sunday after prominent Apple analyst Mark Gurman suggested the machine could land at the end of this month.
It follows a report last week via another Apple specialist, Ming-Chi Kuo, who claimed that the updated iMac won’t appear until 2024.
Computing Just a few weeks ago, it seemed like Apple could launch a whole slate of new Macs in October. Now, the pool of expected Macs is getting smaller and smaller. That’s because a prominent analyst has put the final nail in the coffin of the idea that new iMacs are just around the corner.
According to industry expert Ming-Chi Kuo, the 24-inch iMac is due for an update in 2024. That might sound encouraging given they could only be a few months out, but it actually represents a delay compared to what we thought we knew previously.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
