Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Ugreen 100W GaN Charger review: A perfect charging solution By Tushar Mehta Close $62.00 High power and superefficient charging Compact and reliable build Supports latest charging standards including USB-PD 3.0 and PPS Available in U.S., U.K., and EU plug configurations Can fall out of the power outlet Charging stops momentarily when another device is plugged in You’re packing for a trip and are forced to take along separate chargers for literally every smartphone , camera, laptop, set of earbuds, and every other smart device you will carry with you. Isn’t that galling? If the answer is yes, then you’ll be interested to hear that on a recent family holiday, I brought along just a single multisocket fast charger — the Ugreen 100W GaN charger — to charge all of our devices while on the trip.
What is a GaN charger? Build quality Supported charging standards Charging times for different products Are there any downsides? Availability Our take I will explain in this review why a simple Amazon for $62 solves all the woes related to charging, especially when you are traveling.
In today’s technology-dependent world, we are constantly juggling smart devices. Keeping them all juiced up with sufficient battery is as vital as staying up to date on social media. But while we love to enhance every facet of our lives with these devices, charging them remains to be the most painful aspect of owning and relying on them. Some smartphone and laptop brands such as OnePlus and Xiaomi have tried to address this ordeal by launching superfast proprietary charging technologies. In contrast, others like Apple and Samsung utilize non-proprietary standards like USB-PD (Power Delivery) and PPS (Programmable Power Supply) to dispense faster charging on their devices.
Tushar Mehta/Digital Trends Besides the challenge of how quickly we can charge our devices, we face the limitations of how many can we charge at once. The Ugreen 100W GaN charger addresses both of these constraints by allowing four devices to be fast-charged simultaneously. But before delving into the specifics of this capable device, let us explore what a GaN charger is and how it impacts charging.
What is a GaN charger? Silicon is a semiconductor that is widely used in circuitry for electronic components. Silicon has been used as a semiconductor for over 60 years, and scientists believe they may soon be approaching the theoretical limit of silicon-based chips.
GaN, or gallium nitride, is a more efficient semiconductor used as an alternative to silicon. The energy gap between the valence and the conducting bands on GaN is nearly triple compared to silicon, and this gives it much electric and thermal stability at high voltage and temperatures.
Therefore, for applications with higher voltages and long duration, while silicon tends to offset a lot of heat — leading to wasted energy, GaN is an ideal replacement. GaN is also a better conductor of electricity than silicon at high voltage, which means electric current passes faster through it. These properties make GaN more desirable for chargers.
Tushar Mehta/Digital Trends GaN-based semiconductors require much smaller space to deliver the same power as silicon. This is why a standard silicon chip can be replaced with a GaN chip that is much smaller in size. As a result, GaN chargers are relatively smaller than standard chargers while being more efficient and delivering more power.
Typical GaN chargers can deliver a power output upwards of 100W, while some companies such as Oppo and Xiaomi have even achieved speeds higher than 200W. At MWC 2022, Oppo demonstrated its 240W GaN charger that can charge a 4,500mAh battery to 100% in under 10 minutes.
But despite all its benefits, GaN has one major tradeoff: The manufacturing cost tied to the complex process required to rectify its crystal defects. Therefore, the applications of GaN are limited to accessories such as chargers and have not been applied to the production of smartphones and PCs.
Build quality Now that we have a fair understanding of a GaN charger’s advantages, let us focus on the 100W GaN charger from Ugreen. The Ugreen charger has a solid construction. Although the outer shell is made of plastic, it feels exceptionally sturdy.
Tushar Mehta/Digital Trends The Ugreen 100W GaN charger I received has a flat 3-pin plug commonly used in the UK. But the company also sells the same 100W charger with plugs used in the U.S. and Europe. Compared to the models designed for the U.S. and Europe, the U.K. version has rounder edges, but is thicker and marginally heavier. The U.S. variant weighs roughly 235 grams, while the U.K. variant weighs 245 grams. The weight feels comparable to the Apple 61W charger for my MacBook Pro 2020, and considering it replaces four charging bricks, it should only be an advantage when you are lugging it around in a backpack.
The Ugreen 100W GaN charger looks premium and feels solid.
Given its use of GaN, the Ugreen charger is reasonably compact and fits easily in the palm. Its heft does make it prone to slipping out of the power outlet, especially if you are using all four ports. This is far less problematic for the U.K. variant since the earthing pin does provide more stability in the socket.
The external shell comes in a dark gray color and feels similar to a brushed aluminum surface in terms of feel. This gives the charger a premium appearance, and it could even succeed in fooling you that it is made of metal and not plastic. Overall, the charger feels robust, and while I would not recommend doing so consciously, it should be able to withstand some moderate falls.
Supported charging standards The top two out of the three USB Type-C ports on the charger support charging at 100W — when used individually — while the third one is limited to charging at only 22.5W. The bottom-most port, i.e., the USB Type-A port, is also limited to 22.5W. Although Ugreen endorses a 100W output from the charger, you must remember this only applies if you use the charger to charge just one device at a time.
Charging speeds on each port The 100W power is divided among the ports when you connect two devices. The power output of the topmost port is reduced to 65W, whereas the second port is limited to 30W. The power output of the remaining two ports remains unchanged. Meanwhile, when you engage all three USB Type-C ports, the maximum output of the topmost port is further restricted to only 45W. Lastly, when all four ports are being used, the power output of all the ports from top to bottom is 45W, 30W, 10.5W, and 10.5W, respectively.
Thus, even when you engage all four ports, you can fast-charge at least two devices using this charger. In addition, the 45W output is sufficient to drive a laptop that supports charging via USB — although not to charge it very quickly.
Charging protocols supported by each port The Ugreen charger supports USB-PD 3.0 and Qualcomm’s Quick Charge 4+ through all three USB Type-C ports. Alongside USB-PD, the charger also supports PPS — a newer standard that allows the charger to manipulate output current and voltage in micro-step, thereby resulting in more efficient use of energy and reduced waste in the form of heat. Support for PPS also means that the Ugreen charger can pump charge into flagship Samsung phones, including the Galaxy S22 Ultra, using any of the three USB Type-C ports.
The USB Type-A port at the bottom supports Qualcomm’s Quick Charge 3, among other more common charging standards.
Tushar Mehta/Digital Trends The wide gamut of supported charging standards means besides your laptops , smartphones, and tablets, you can also charge your smartwatches, headphones , earbuds, wireless keyboards and mice, or handheld gaming consoles such as the Nintendo Switch.
Charging times for different products While Ugreen’s case appears compelling on the specs table, real-life performance is what matters. To test the actual caliber of the charger, I tried five different devices with it and noted the charge taken by each device in 30 minutes to establish a level playing field. These devices were left untouched during the charging period to prevent varying workloads from affecting the results.
Here are my observations on the charging performance of the Ugreen: My 13-inch MacBook Pro 2020 went from 1% to 48% in 30 minutes using the Ugreen charger. This is slightly more than what I got using the standard 61W charger supplied with the MacBook. Notably, the 13-inch MacBook Pro can only receive a charge at a maximum rate of 61W (you can find out your MacBook’s maximum supported power input on the bottom case near the display hinge). Therefore, the Ugreen charger’s full capability could not be utilized.
The Galaxy S22 Ultra went from 18% to 60% in 30 minutes and took nearly 70 minutes to complete charging. Even though the Galaxy S22 Ultra supports fast charging at 45W, the charging speed does not appear dazzling, especially when we look at brands such as OnePlus and Xiaomi that already sell phones with much faster charging.
But Samsung is the probable culprit here, as Andy Boxall , senior mobile writer at Digital Trends, noted in his review of the Galaxy S22 Ultra.
 As seen during his review, the difference between a 25W Samsung charger and one rated for 45W is only marginal. In my testing, charging with the Ugreen charger displays “super fast charging” on the phone, while using any other charger shows only “fast charging.” To test how much faster I can charge a smartphone, I used the Xiaomi 11i HyperCharge — a phone that takes only 20 minutes to charge fully and comes with a 120W charger in its box. While it uses Xiaomi’s proprietary charging technology to refill the battery in less than 20 minutes, it also supports non-proprietary chargers with USB-PD at a maximum charging rate of 68W.
During my testing, the Xiaomi 11i HyperCharge went from 10% to 100% in just 24 minutes when hooked to the GaN charger. This result is nothing but spectacular.
In addition to these fast-charging devices, I also tested a couple of slow-charging devices. First, the iPhone 11 went from 57% to 84% in 30 minutes of charging with the Ugreen GaN charger. Since the iPhone 11 can only charge at up to 22W, all three USB Type-C ports would deliver the same performance. Not much has changed in terms of the iPhone’s charging speeds, and the newer iPhone 13 is also stuck at the same charging speed.
Fnally, the Galaxy Z Flip 3 was the slowest of the lot. While it is officially limited to 25W charging, it went from 42% to 66% in 30 minutes, indicating much slower charging. The foldable also got considerably hot, which may have led to slower charging.
This swift and versatile is the perfect charger for your MacBook, Dell XPS, or Galaxy S22 Ultra.
My findings for the charging tests are summed up in the table below: Device Max supported charging rate Change in battery % after 30 minutes Apple MacBook Pro 2020 (13-inch, Intel) 61W 47% Samsung Galaxy S22 Ultra 45W (PPS), 25W (USB-PD) 42% Xiaomi 11i HyperCharge 120W(proprietary tech), 68W (USB-PD) Charging completed in 24 minutes iPhone 11 22W 27% Samsung Galaxy Z Flip 3 25W 24% Are there any downsides? I have a few minor gripes with the Ugreen GaN charger. First, as I mentioned above, its weight makes it prone to falling out of the power socket, especially when using the U.S. plug variant.
Secondly, when you plug in a new device, the already plugged-in devices will stop charging for a second. This is probably because the charging speeds readjust when multiple ports are engaged. I reckon this might sound like nitpicking and may not bother the majority of the users, but if it weren’t for this, I would probably give this charger a perfect score of five stars.
Lastly, you cannot fast charge phones from brands like OnePlus or Oppo that offer superfast but proprietary charging.
Availability The Ugreen 100W GaN charger is available on Amazon for $62 (including a $6 coupon). You can also buy the U.K. plug for 60 British pounds on Amazon UK (including a 20-pound coupon). Lastly, if you are looking for EU-type plug, you can find it on Amazon Germany for 75 euros (including a 5-euro coupon).
People in Asia can also buy it on AliExpress.
Our take The Ugreen 100W GaN charger is a compact and charming device that can easily replace four of your charging bricks. Besides being a fantastic office or bedside gadget, the Ugreen GaN charger is the definitive solution for travel and will ease your burden of carrying different chargers for different devices. Besides being the perfect charging solution to help you keep your work desk organized, the Ugreen 100W GaN charger is also ideal if you own a phone or laptop that supports non-proprietary fast charging standards such as USB-PD PPS. This is why it is also an excellent charger for your new and shiny Samsung Galaxy S22 Ultra that does not come with a charger within the box.
Is there a better alternative? If you are looking for slightly more power output while also being able to charge four devices at once, you can consider the Spigen 120W GaN charger on Amazon for $100.
 However, you will only get two USB Type-C ports alongside two USB Type-A ports and will also have to shell nearly $35 more for the extra power.
If you want a more affordable solution, you can check out the Spigen 100W dual USB-C charger on Amazon for $48.
 But here, you will only get two ports and both of them will be USB Type-C ports.
There are a few other brands selling superfast GaN chargers rated at 100W or higher on Amazon , and those are relatively more affordable than the Ugreen charger. But we cannot recommend them without testing them ourselves.
How long with it last? Ugreen tells me that the 100W GaN charger can be plugged in 10,000 times and even contends that this is higher than the industry standard. That many charging cycles means you can easily use it for a decade, and by then, there will be a better technology that will replace it.
Should you buy it? The Ugreen GaN charger offers a great value and is an utter no-brainer at this price. If you need a versatile charger to charge up all of your devices all at once without grappling with multiple different chargers, Ugreen’s solution is just about perfect.
Mobile 5G Apple Laptops Mac Reviews Product Reviews Samsung Wearable Reviews Computing Lenovo is probably one of the best-known laptop makers, especially since they have an incredibly wide variety of them to choose from. That also means they have an excellent selection of gaming laptops, so you can hone in on something that fits your budget. That's especially the case with the ongoing early Black Friday deals that are seeing laptops being cut down in price across the board. That said, Lenovo's selection of gaming laptops is too wide for us to include all their active deals here, so we've selected some of our favorites for both AMD and Intel CPUs. Also, if you're not sure of where to start, you should check out our list of best Lenovo laptops for some good options.
Best Lenovo Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals (AMD) Lenovo has a wider selection of AMD gaming laptops, which is great if you want to go with something AMD-powered. Unfortunately, there aren't any good deals on Lenovo laptops with both an AMD CPU and GPU, but the selection below is wide enough to pick something that fits your needs a bit better. And, if you want something with an RTX 4090 on a budget, then the AMD version is probably the cheapest for Lenovo.
Computing Printers are complicated machines featuring a mix of plastics, metals, electronics, and components, some of which are potentially flagged as hazardous waste. In 2023, it's more important than ever to be kind to the planet, and there are several environmentally safe ways to dispose of a printer.
Even the best printers in the world can reach the end of their life after several years if ink or toner is no longer available. A well-loved printer can suffer from accumulated wear and tear or damage from a catastrophic power surge that's too expensive to repair.
Computing It's Black Friday, which means it is time to give expensive tech products and fun, but expensive, toys a second look. The right Black Friday deals are there to take these categories of products down in price. Where these categories of expensive tech and cool toys collide is the Meta Quest 2, a VR headset, and sure enough, it has a good sale going on over at Amazon right now. Normally $300, its price has dropped by $51 down to just $249, one of the best VR headset Black Friday deals we've seen. The really good news? This deal is here now, so you don't have to wait to buy it like you will with the rest of your post Thanksgiving shopping. In fact, if you tap the button below and buy now, and with a little shipping luck, you might have it by Thanksgiving to play with your family.
Why you should buy the Meta Quest 2 The Meta Quest 2, which dominated Steam last year, is a VR headset that gives a full 360 field of view, allows you to experience 3D positional audio, and has over 500 compatible titles between gaming, fitness, and other experiences. If you're a Twitch viewer, you may recognize it from streamers playing Meta Quest 2 games like Beat Saber or the somewhat ironically humorous Among Us VR. It refreshes at 120Hz and gives each eye a view of 1832 x 1920p.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
