Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Features I’m sick of waiting for Apple to fix this glaring problem with Mac gaming By Alex Blake Close Every so often, Apple will come out and tell people how deeply committed it is to the world of Mac gaming. And just as regularly, many of us Mac gamers roll our eyes. It’s not that I don’t trust Apple or don’t think the company is trying. It’s just that I’ve heard it all so many times before, yet macOS still lags far behind Windows gaming. Why would this time be any different? Destination Mac Disappointing past efforts Well, if a new TechCrunch interview with a couple of Apple execs is to be believed, the company is actually putting measures in place to convince developers to bring their games to the Mac instead of letting the platform languish in loneliness. That’s important because the dearth of quality Mac games is a massive and ongoing frustration.
Digital Trends To be clear, I’m not saying all Mac games are bad, or that those developers who have gone to the considerable effort of porting their games to Apple’s computers are not noteworthy. No, the problem is that while there are plenty of great Mac games , there are far fewer compared to our friends over on Windows. And if you love gaming, the Mac simply isn’t the place to go, no matter what Apple says.
It doesn’t have to be this way — after all, modern Macs have great hardware. Apple silicon chips are some of the fastest processors in the business. The displays built into Apple’s laptops are unrivaled in their quality.
 And the audio output from even the cheapest Apple MacBook blows anything from rival PC laptops out of the water. In other words, Apple’s Macs should be fantastic little gaming machines.
Destination Mac Dan Baker / Digital Trends So why aren’t big-name developers flocking to the Mac? Unfortunately, they suffer from a negatively spiraling gameplay loop, if you will. Developers look at the number of Mac gamers compared to PC gamers and decide the former is too small to justify the cost and effort of porting their games. Gamers look at the paltry number of AAA games on the Mac and decide to stick to Windows. Each factor helps to reinforce the other.
There are also technical hurdles to overcome. Macs rely on Metal, Apple’s own graphics API, instead of DirectX , which the vast majority of PC games run on. This means developers have to tweak their games specifically to work with Metal if they want to bring their games to the Mac. And if Apple doesn’t provide the right support, that can be an unnecessarily complex process.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Fortunately, it seems like Apple is trying to make working with Metal as painless as it can be. In the TechCrunch interview, Tim Millet, Apple’s vice president of Platform Architecture and Hardware Technologies, said that his team was working closely with the company’s Metal engineers to ensure their APIs are as up to speed as possible for developers.
“My team spends a lot of time thinking about how to make sure that we’re staying on that API curve to make sure that we’re giving Metal what it needs to be a modern gaming API,” Millet said. “We know this will take some time. But we’re not at all confused about the opportunity; we see it. And we’re going to make sure we show up.” That’s reassuring to hear, but without top-tier games on the Mac, it’s not going to convince gamers to switch away from Windows or developers to port their games across. It sounds like Apple is at least trying, but there are no points for effort here. We need to see results if the fortunes of Mac gaming are to change.
Disappointing past efforts Image used with permission by copyright holder To be sure, there have been past efforts to increase the number of games on the Mac, most prominently in the form of Apple Arcade.
Games on Apple Arcade work on Macs, iPhones, iPads and Apple TVs, letting you play ad-free and carry your save progress onto any of those devices. It’s a pretty attractive proposition.
At least, that’s how it looks on paper. In reality, though, the Mac loses out.
 Because developers have to ensure their games work well on the most powerful Mac Pro and the tiniest iPhone, they inevitably have to cater to the lowest common denominator. That means on the Mac, you get blurry textures and gigantic menus designed for touch input. It gives the impression that the Mac is an afterthought when it comes to Apple Arcade.
No, if Apple is going to prove it actually cares about Mac gamers, we don’t need any more hyped-up event presentations or Apple Arcade disappointments. We need high-end franchises choosing to launch their games on the Mac. We need action, not more talk.
If this latest interview is anything to go by, Apple seems to be trying, and I’m inclined to believe Millet when he says his team is going to “show up.” Let’s just hope we see the fruits of that labor sooner rather than later.
Editors' Recommendations Here’s why people are raising concerns about the M3 Pro MacBook Pro The MacBook Pro M3 doesn’t have a memory problem — it has a pricing problem Apple’s M3 Max appears to keep up with Intel’s top desktop CPU Why the MacBook Air is still stuck on the M2 Apple has everything it needs to dominate gaming — except games Apple Features Computing Macs with Apple silicon were a revelation when they launched three years ago, but we haven't seen Apple demonstrate how it will carry that idea forward since then. We saw the M2 release and the middling performance improvements that came with it, but the M3, announced during Apple's "Scary Fast" event, is the most important chip Apple has ever designed for Macs.
Although it carries the branding of the third generation of Apple silicon, it's really the second true generation. There's a lot riding on this release for Apple to prove that it can sustain its own silicon in Macs, and M3 is arriving at a time when there's fierce competition on all sides.
Second-gen Apple silicon Computing It's not often that MacBook Pros get new color options. But with this most recent update to M3 chips, the MacBook Pro will add Space Black, a color that first appeared on the iPhone, to the mix. I was shown an early preview of the new color ahead of the "Scary Fast" launch event, and I have to say: I'm smitten.
This new Space Black is not true black, of course. In truth, it's a slightly darker gray than Space Gray, which it replaces. And it's a good thing this isn't true black. Because remember, this is aluminum, and Apple isn't just slapping a coating or layer of paint on here like so many laptop manufacturers do when making true black aluminum laptops. These laptops, such as most gaming laptops or even something like the Surface Laptop, tend to scratch easily and fade over time.
Computing Apple announced an update to its MacBook Pros at today's Scary Fast event that brings the M3, M3 Pro, and M3 Max under the hood. That might sound like a ho-hum generational chip refresh, especially coming just 10 months after the M2 Pro/Max models came out. But trust me -- these new MacBook Pros have become an unstoppable force, especially the new full-tilt model with the M3 Max.
The 14-inch MacBook Pro (which replaces the 13-inch MacBook Pro) will now have the option for the M3, M3 Pro, or M3 Max, while the 16-inch model gets the M3 Pro and an even more powerful M3 Max configuration. Across the board, these new M3 chips are built on the new 3nm technology, the same that's used in the new iPhone 15 models, only scaled up for the Mac. It's all about efficiency, with Apple claiming that the M3 chips provides the same performance at 30% less power.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
