Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Features The M3 is the most important chip Apple has ever made By Jacob Roach Close Macs with Apple silicon were a revelation when they launched three years ago, but we haven’t seen Apple demonstrate how it will carry that idea forward since then. We saw the M2 release and the middling performance improvements that came with it, but the M3 , announced during Apple’s “Scary Fast” event , is the most important chip Apple has ever designed for Macs.
Second-gen Apple silicon The gaming push Major competition A lot to look forward to Although it carries the branding of the third generation of Apple silicon, it’s really the second true generation. There’s a lot riding on this release for Apple to prove that it can sustain its own silicon in Macs, and M3 is arriving at a time when there’s fierce competition on all sides.
Second-gen Apple silicon Apple Wind the clocks back to May of last year. At the time, shortly before Apple’s annual Worldwide Developer’s Conference (WWDC), the industry was speculating on the release of Apple’s M2. Reports at the time indicated that Apple would move onto a 3nm process instead of using the 5nm process that the M1 was based on. But something changed. After the chip was announced, additional reports came out that Apple skipped the 3nm process because it couldn’t secure enough supply, likely due to supply chains being thrown out of sorts from the pandemic.
Instead of a seismic shift in performance like the M1 was, the M2 was a refinement of the Apple silicon we had already seen. It was the second generation in name only. It’s not dissimilar from a processor like Intel’s recent Core i9-14900K.
 It’s a 14th-gen processor, but it’s based on the same hardware that powered the 13th-gen.
The M3 is the true successor to the M1, offering a full process shift. I imagine it won’t look as impressive compared to the M2, likely falling in line with decent, if unexciting, generational improvements. Considering it’s launching devices like the 24-inch iMac that have been restricted to M1, though, M3 should represent a massive boost in performance.
We’ll have to see if that performance holds up when we have a chance to test M3 ourselves. Regardless, M3 is the true accessor to the M1, and it’s where we’ll see how Apple settles into a cadence of producing its own silicon in the future.
The gaming push Apple One vital aspect of M3 is the new GPU architecture. Apple made a big deal about the M3’s GPU during its presentation, announcing that the new architecture supports hardware-accelerated ray tracing , mesh shading, and an “industry first” feature in Dynamic Caching. All of these changes look like part of Apple’s larger push into gaming.
Apple has dabbled in gaming for years, mainly dipping its toe into the water with a casual audience through Apple Arcade , releasing smaller, more manageable experiences for iPhones, Macs, and even Apple TV. But over the past 12 months, there’s been a major effort put into core gaming. We’ve seen the Game Porting Toolkit open up Windows games on Mac, ports of Resident Evil 4 to iPhone, upscaling through Apple’s MetalFX, and even an appearance by gaming icon Hideo Kojima during an Apple event.
Apple With that push, Apple is finally meeting its ambitions with hardware in the form of M3. Digital Trends saw a preview of games like Lies of P running on M3, and with titles as big as Baldur’s Gate 3 showing up with native Mac support, it seems Apple is finally hitting its stride with core gaming. If new AAA games can arrive on the platform with solid performance, Apple may finally have its foot in the door.
Apple’s gaming focus started months ago, but it’s finally ready for primetime with M3. The GPU upgrades seem like the big focus for Apple, and that’s focused almost solely on gaming performance.
Major competition Andrew Martonik / Digital Trends After Apple launched the M1, the computing world was sent into a frenzy trying to catch up. There have been attempts from AMD, Intel, and even Qualcomm, none of which could hold a candle to Apple’s silicon. It’s been a few years now, though, and times are changing.
Intel may finally have a competent Apple competitor on its hands with Meteor Lake , which is slated to roll out starting on December 14. Qualcomm recently announced its Snapdragon X Elite for Windows laptops, too, boasting about performance that clearly beats the Intel competition and makes the M2 look silly. And Qualcomm says it can do this while rivaling the battery life of M-series MacBooks.
Apple enjoyed a few years on top, with the computing world fumbling over rushed attempts to keep pace. That won’t continue forever, though, and Apple will likely find itself in much more competitive waters throughout the next year. Going further, if reports are to be believed, AMD and Nvidia are looking to develop ARM-based processors for PCs, as well, providing Apple with even more competition.
The M3 doesn’t have much competition at its release, but throughout the next year, Apple will have to weather the storm coming from the rest of the computing industry. We very well could be in the same situation we were with the M1, with yet more failed attempts from the competition. It doesn’t feel that way with the amount of computing power we’ve seen, though.
A lot to look forward to The M3 is an exciting development for Apple. There’s a lot to look forward to, especially as Apple introduces the chip to products like the Mac mini and MacBook Air. There’s a lot riding on the M3, however, especially when we look back in a few months to see how it has held up.
Editors' Recommendations Here’s why people are raising concerns about the M3 Pro MacBook Pro Apple just dashed our iMac hopes and dreams Why Apple’s subtle MacBook Pro decision makes me so happy Apple’s new M3 Pro might come with an unexpected downgrade How to watch Apple’s ‘Scary Fast’ Mac launch event if you missed it Apple Features Laptops Mac Computing Apple just did something surprising. At its "Scary Fast" launch event, Apple announced a new chip, the M3.
But rather than introduce it in a MacBook Air like it did with the M1 and M2, this event was all about the MacBook Pro. The MacBook Air was inconspicuously missing.
Computing Apple is finally hitting its stride with gaming. The company today announced the new M3 family of chips during its "Scary Fast" event, and they pack a redesigned GPU that adds some much-needed features for gaming in 2023. There's just one problem -- you can't play a ton of games on Mac.
There are some great games available on Mac -- just check out our list of the best Mac games -- but the big hurdle for Apple has always been broad game support. With the release of M3, along with some recent developments to porting games from Windows to Mac, Apple has a chance to make its gaming ambitions a reality. But all of that effort won't matter until we see games releasing on the platform alongside PC and consoles.
A game-changing GPU Computing It's not often that MacBook Pros get new color options. But with this most recent update to M3 chips, the MacBook Pro will add Space Black, a color that first appeared on the iPhone, to the mix. I was shown an early preview of the new color ahead of the "Scary Fast" launch event, and I have to say: I'm smitten.
This new Space Black is not true black, of course. In truth, it's a slightly darker gray than Space Gray, which it replaces. And it's a good thing this isn't true black. Because remember, this is aluminum, and Apple isn't just slapping a coating or layer of paint on here like so many laptop manufacturers do when making true black aluminum laptops. These laptops, such as most gaming laptops or even something like the Surface Laptop, tend to scratch easily and fade over time.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
