Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Features The biggest Apple design fails and screw-ups of all time By Alex Blake Close Apple is world-famous for its design success stories, from the iMac G3 to all the best iPhones.
 But things don’t always go according to plan, even for the most design-savvy tech firm on the planet.
The butterfly keyboard Magic Mouse 2 The iMac G3’s ‘hockey puck’ mouse The Touch Bar 1st-generation Apple Pencil The ‘trash can’ Mac Pro AirPods Max Smart Case iPhone Smart Battery Case The Newton MessagePad No, Apple has had its fair share of design howlers over the years. Here, we’ve rounded up eight of the most egregious design sins Apple has ever committed. It’s a good reminder that no one is above dropping a few absolute clunkers — even Apple.
The butterfly keyboard Image used with permission by copyright holder For many years, Apple exalted the concept of “thin and light” above seemingly all else. In the quest to strip back its designs to their purest essence, not even the keyboard could escape the steely gaze of Jony Ive and his fellow Apple designers.
The result was the butterfly keyboard, first debuted on 2015’s 12-inch MacBook.
 Instead of the traditional scissor switch mechanism under each key, this keyboard bore a new design that was much thinner and permitted far less key travel than before. Sure, it allowed the laptop to be almost impossibly thin, but it came at the cost of terrible reliability (and plenty of lawsuits filed against Apple ).
Even the smallest crumb could jam up your keys and render them fickle and erratic. And with almost no key travel, typing on the keyboard felt like you were tapping a solid, immovable surface, which made errors increasingly common. Apple finally ditched the butterfly keyboard in 2019 and hasn’t looked back since.
Magic Mouse 2 The butterfly keyboard might have been abandoned, but this next design fail — the Magic Mouse 2 — is still with us. Buy a Magic Mouse 2 today and you’ll see it’s a real pain — quite literally.
For one thing, its low-profile shape can cause discomfort with prolonged use. I know at least one person who had to switch to a different mouse after it caused them severe wrist pain. Sure, its support for multitouch gestures is great, but is that worth the possible carpal tunnel syndrome? That’s not the only problem. The most meme-worthy aspect of the Magic Mouse 2 is the way it charges, as Apple bafflingly located the charging port on the underside of the device. That means you can’t use it and charge it at the same time, and instead have to place it on its back like a rodent playing dead. That seems pretty appropriate, really.
The iMac G3’s ‘hockey puck’ mouse Factory on Wikipedia The Magic Mouse 2 wasn’t the first time Apple got a mouse badly wrong. No, over 15 years before the, Apple launched the iMac G3 and its design bomb of a mouse. While the iMac G3 is rightly celebrated as one of the best Macs of all time , its mouse is not remembered anywhere near as fondly. You certainly won’t find it on any lists of the best mice , that’s for sure.
That’s because it was completely circular (hence the “hockey puck” nickname). In practice, that meant it was extremely difficult to orient correctly without taking your eyes off the screen and looking down. You’d either hold it wrong and not be able to find its single button, or have to interrupt your work to get it the right way around. It was disruptive and annoying — hardly the hallmarks of great design.
The Touch Bar Image used with permission by copyright holder When Apple launched the redesigned MacBook Pro in 2016, its Touch Bar feature was heralded with much fanfare by the company. This touch-sensitive strip would provide handy app-specific shortcuts whenever you needed them and would even let you quickly type emojis into any message. What’s not to love? Well, its shortcomings became apparent over time. Although a few apps had built-in support for the Touch Bar from the get-go, many didn’t, and uptake was slow. It wasn’t long before the Touch Bar felt like it was stagnating and unable to live up to its potential.
What’s more, it replaced the MacBook Pro’s row of physical function keys, which were well-liked by many users. Apple eventually reinstated a physical Escape key in later iterations, but the absence of a proper function row was keenly felt. Apple righted that wrong when it dropped the Touch Bar in 2021.
1st-generation Apple Pencil Malarie Gokey / Digital Trends Don’t get me wrong, I like the Apple Pencil.
 It brings a great level of extra functionality to the iPad and feels well-thought-out and well-designed.
In every way except one, that is. You see, the first-generation Apple Pencil came with a Lightning connector at its top end. To charge the device, you had to plug it into the iPad’s Lightning port, making your tablet look like some sort of bizarre tech stingray.
Worse, this perplexing arrangement put the Apple Pencil at a huge risk of snapping if it was knocked while charging, as a frightening amount of pressure would be channeled through its Lightning connector. It might have been a fine device, but its peculiar — and risky — charging method was an inescapable design fail. Fortunately, Apple fixed it in the second-generation model.
The ‘trash can’ Mac Pro Image used with permission by copyright holder When Apple’s marketing chief Phil Schiller unveiled the new Mac Pro in 2013, he uttered one of the most infamous lines in launch event history: “Can’t innovate anymore, my ass.” The irony is that the design he revealed actually prevented Apple from innovating further down the road.
You see, the 2013 Mac Pro (known informally as the “trash can” Mac Pro) was a pretty clever device, with all its components designed around a cylindrical cooling chamber. It was a marvel of engineering and highly proprietary. But the problem with proprietary designs is they’re very difficult to upgrade in the future.
Apple admitted as much in 2017, when an uncharacteristically candid Schiller said the Mac Pro was “constrained thermally,” which “restricted our ability to upgrade it.” As a result, the 2019 Mac Pro was far more modular. The 2013 model, meanwhile, is a great example of how a design that wows in the short term can lead to headaches in the long term.
AirPods Max Smart Case Apple The AirPods Max Smart Case might be the most ironically named product Apple has ever released. That’s because it’s barely a case at all, and definitely not a smart choice. Wrap up your AirPods Max inside the Smart Case and you’ll see only about half the headphones are actually covered. It seems much more like a fashion accessory than a case.
While it’s kind of clever in that it resembles a handbag, that’s definitely not what most people want from a headphone case because it offers next to no protection at all. If you were hoping to keep your AirPods Max safe from bumps and bruises, you’re out of luck.
Even more annoyingly, using the Smart Case is the only way the headphones can enter low-power mode. Ditch the case and you need to wait a couple of hours for them to shut down, and all the while they’re draining the battery.
Style? Check. Substance? Not so much.
iPhone Smart Battery Case Image used with permission by copyright holder What is it with Apple devices that have “Smart” in their name? Next up is the iPhone’s Smart Battery Case, which instantly became something of a meme thanks to its bizarre design.
While Apple’s rivals opted for more bulky charging cases, Apple went for a stripped-back look, leaving the battery oddly protruding from the back of your phone. Unfortunately, this design made it look like the case had swallowed the battery, and that it was ready to burst out at any moment.
The bulbous design even prompted Tim Cook to step out and defend the case , and that’s never a good sign. Fortunately for him, Apple later ditched the Smart Battery Case in favor of the MagSafe Battery Pack , which is slightly more elegant (although really, it’s not that difficult).
The Newton MessagePad Blake Patterson/Flickr The iPad has been a massive success for Apple, yet it wouldn’t exist were it not for the Newton MessagePad. This handheld personal digital assistant (PDA) launched in 1993, but was plagued with problems almost from the beginning.
The MessagePad — and perhaps the world — simply wasn’t ready when it launched. Its handwriting-recognition software was so inaccurate that it was even mocked on The Simpsons, yet the device was still pushed out ahead of time, perhaps because it was the pet project of Apple’s then-CEO John Sculley.
Ultimately, the MessagePad was a great idea designed poorly. When Steve Jobs returned to Apple in the late 1990s, he axed the company’s entire Newton division. Yet, with more mature technology and a few design tweaks (including dropping the stylus), the MessagePad idea lived on in the form of the iPad.
Editors' Recommendations Apple’s M3 Max appears to keep up with Intel’s top desktop CPU From click wheels to trackpads, these are the best Apple designs of all time Apple will pay $50M to settle the butterfly keyboard fiasco Apple may be preparing an avalanche of M2 and M3 Macs this year All of the product videos that Apple shared today AirPods Apple Features Mac Computing At Apple's Peek Performance event, we saw a lot of new products. There was the new iPad Air, a new green color for the iPhone 13, and an updated iPhone SE. In terms of Macs, Apple announced the Mac Studio and Studio Display, and took the world by surprise with the new M1 Ultra chip.
But there were still some products that we were looking out for that didn't actually make the big virtual stage. Here's a look at what Apple didn't announce.
Redesigned MacBook Air Computing We’ve been talking about the upcoming iMac Pro redesign for many months with the expectation it will be fitted with one of Apple’s M1 Pro or M1 Max chips. According to a reliable leaker, though, there’s going to be a surprise chip added to the line-up.
The news comes from the pseudonymous Dylandkt on Twitter, who has a good track record for Apple leaks. In a tweet, the poster claimed that “there will be an additional configuration for the upcoming iMac Pro beyond M1 Max. A 12 Core CPU configuration was tied to a snippet of code referencing the iMac.” Computing Apple delivered a host of announcements at its Unleashed event, most of which was proved the rumors true. Announcements included the new M1 Pro and M1 Max chips that power the newly redesigned MacBook Pro, as well as the AirPods 3, which bring spatial audio and head tracking to a lower price point in Apple's personal audio lineup.
But in terms of new products, there are still a few that Apple won't be acting on until 2022.
Mac mini Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
