Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Mobile Features The Apple Vision Pro has given VR its iPhone moment By Mark Jansen Close Apple “One more thing” means you’re about to be treated to something groundbreaking — and that’s exactly what happened when Apple CEO Tim Cook uttered those fateful three words at the end of the recent Worldwide Developers Conference 2023 keynote.
 The Apple Vision Pro is not just another VR headset; no, it’s an incredible piece of technology that pushes the boundaries of what we can expect from both virtual reality and augmented reality. The display tech, sensor quality, and polish are like nothing we’ve ever seen before in a headset — and they signal a big jump forward in VR and AR tech.
I’m not sold on the Vision Pro The Vision Pro is already making waves A true iPhone moment for VR and AR The only quibble is the price: $3,500. That’s a whole lot of cash , and due to that, I’m not confident the Vision Pro will appear in every other house in the next few years.
But it doesn’t matter. The Vision Pro doesn’t need to be a massive success as it’s already changed the face of VR and AR tech simply by existing. Once again, Apple has delivered an iPhone moment that’s going to change the face of technology. Only, this time, it’s done so for the VR and AR market.
I’m not sold on the Vision Pro Apple I truly can’t understate this: I’m really, really not confident the Vision Pro is going to be a hit.
Apple’s presentation spent a long time trying to persuade us to wear the Vision Pro all the time, and, well, that seems like a terrible idea. I’ve spent quite a lot of time in my own Meta Quest 2 , and while Apple’s headset is noticeably smaller and lighter than mine, I still don’t think many people are going to want to spend a lot of time with a screen strapped to their head.
The weight is a problem, but there are many other factors that also limit the amount of time you want to spend in any VR headset. If the fit isn’t perfect, then the frame can press into your head uncomfortably. The positioning needs to be exactly right, or it’ll blur. Oh, and if your nose isn’t the right size and shape to accommodate that position, well, enjoy the pain that causes. Heck, it’s also hot in those things, and that by itself puts a major limit on the amount of time you’ll want to spend wearing it.
But even if Apple has cracked the comfort element, the Vision Pro is constrained by other means. The tethered battery only lasts for two hours, which means anyone wearing their headsets throughout their daily life will have to dash to a charger every couple of hours.
Apple But ultimately, the Vision Pro is held back because, er, who is it actually for? Granted, everyone is going to want one. But why are you going to need one? VR headsets have traditionally been the domain of gamers, so will it be great for them? Well, not really.
 You’ll be able to play over 100 Apple Arcade games at launch, but I can play over 100 Apple Arcade games on my iPhone 8 right now without it being strapped to my face.
What about productivity hounds who dream of a massive Minority Report -style setup of floating screens? That is pretty cool, but you’re going to look like an utter lunatic in any office environment. I can see it in a working-from-home situation, but you’re going to need a lot of empty space to pull it off properly. Plus, you can bet Apple’s control system isn’t anywhere near as foolproof as it’s claiming, meaning you’ll need a mouse and keyboard to really make headway — and at that point, what’s the point of having the headset on at all? Well, what about film buffs and TV show bingers? This is the Vision Pro’s strongest element, as it boasts the ability to watch movies on a 100-foot screen and will have Disney+ support from day one. It has spatial audio, and the stunning 4K displays are tailor-made to deliver incredible audio-visual experiences. It’s actually quite a tempting prospect, and I can see myself watching a movie on the Vision Pro.
Apple There’s only one issue with that last statement: “myself.” Doing anything on the Vision Pro is a solitary experience, and that goes for watching movies and TV shows. If you like to watch anything with friends or family, you won’t be doing it on the Vision Pro. That is, unless every one of your friends and family has a Vision Pro, at which point you can use SharePlay to watch a movie at the same time.
All of these problems are exacerbated by — you guessed it — the price. You may be fine with watching movies alone, but do you want to spend $3,500 to do it? Apple Arcade games are pretty great, but is it worth paying three times more than an iPhone 14 Pro to play them on a virtual screen? Is it worth 35 Benjamins to play Minority Report at work? My answer is “no”, and I’m willing to bet lots of other people feel the same way as me.
But curiously, all of this doesn’t actually matter. Because the Vision Pro doesn’t need to be successful to make an impact — it already has.
The Vision Pro is already making waves Apple The fact that Apple Vision Pro exists is enough to change the game dramatically.
I cannot understate the impact of Apple’s name alone. Whenever Apple launches a new feature, it’s a running joke that Android or Windows did it first. And that’s because, more often than not, it’s true. But the point is, for many people outside of tech-obsessed circles, this might be the first time they’ve heard of that particular feature. In this case, while most people will have heard of virtual reality, they probably saw it as little more than an oddity; a heavy headset that turns up at family events and scares grandma. Apple’s tech isn’t like that; the Vision Pro is about watching movies, working, and being productive. In other words, it’s for the “normies.” Before long, everyone will know what a Vision Pro is. While not everyone will buy one, they’ll know it exists, and that’s more than enough for it to have a significant knock-on effect for the rest of the VR market. Now that Apple has entered the space, there’s an incentive for developers to start creating VR apps and experiences for the Vision Pro. Expect a lot of those apps to make the jump to other VR headsets, adding more and more utility to the Meta Quest and other standalone headsets.
Even the Vision Pro’s sky-high price is a boon because it lifts the price ceiling for other headsets.
Premium headsets from other brands already exist, but frankly, everything looks cheap when compared to the Vision Pro, so why not take the chance to explore the space for high-end headsets? Plus, a number of people will be newly interested in VR due to the Vision Pro’s announcement, but won’t want to pay Apple’s high price tag. Some of those people may buy a different VR headset instead — which they may not have done if Apple hadn’t just created an all-singing, all-dancing announcement for the Vision Pro.
A true iPhone moment for VR and AR David Paul Morris/Getty Images As ever, Apple making its play has changed the game. Remember when it axed the headphone jack ? It seemed like insanity then, but now, my Android phone doesn’t have a headphone jack, and I’m willing to bet yours doesn’t either. The Vision Pro has the potential to be another iPhone moment for Apple, and just as the release of the original iPhone put smartphones on the map and set the course for the future of smart devices, the Vision Pro could do the same for virtual reality and augmented reality.
Sure, I and many others have problems with the Vision Pro, but remember that when the iPhone was first announced, it had more than its fair share of naysayers. Microsoft CEO Steve Ballmer famously thought it wouldn’t get any market share and pointed out the lack of keyboard for business users and — crucially — the high price. Well, that high-priced and apparently niche product changed the world in ways many people didn’t see coming. Now, with the Vision Pro, Apple has the chance to do so again.
Editors' Recommendations Double Tap is the coolest Apple Watch feature I’ve used in ages It’s finally happening — your iPhone is getting RCS in 2024 The iPhone is getting out of control 4 AI features I want in my next iPhone I figured out how to protect my iPhone without an ugly case Computing Apple Features Virtual Reality Mobile The iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro Max have an all-new titanium body, which is the standout feature from a design perspective. However, another hardware-related feature that's even more noteworthy for these models — and future iPhones over time — is the new Action button.
The Action button replaces the ring/silent switch on the left side of the iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro Max. You can assign one shortcut to the button through the Settings app, such as activating and using the Camera app or turning on the phone's flashlight. To assign the button, go into the Settings app on your supported iPhone. From there, choose the Action Button, then toggle to your selection. It's that simple.
Computing Apple’s Vision Pro headset is the biggest new product the company has revealed in almost a decade, yet there are serious warnings it might not be the massive success Apple wants it to be. Even for a company that's as good at pulling the proverbial rabbit out of the hat as Apple is, it could be a struggle.
Read journalist Mark Gurman’s latest Power On newsletter and the picture looks grim. Gurman points out that Apple is looking for its “next big thing” to help restore revenues after a flat (or declining) quarter. Yet Gurman reckons that “it’s becoming clearer and clearer that the [Vision Pro] won’t be a major moneymaker for some time.” Mobile Apple launched the iPhone 15 lineup recently, which includes the iPhone 15, iPhone 15 Plus, iPhone 15 Pro, and iPhone 15 Pro Max. Of course, while the new series appears to be a hit with most, it’s not without its own set of issues too.
Despite the fact that the iPhone 15 has only been out for a few weeks, the rumor mill for the iPhone 16 has already begun, though it’s still quite early. But from what we’ve gathered so far, it looks like the iPhone 16 could be another worthy upgrade, especially if you haven’t picked up an iPhone 15 already.
More buttons and a haptic transition Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
