Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Reviews Asus ROG Swift OLED (PG27AQDM) review: OLED meets brightness By Jacob Roach Close $1,000.00 Top-tier cinematic and competitive gaming Much brighter than other OLEDs Striking signature ROG design DisplayWidget Center Poor color accuracy out of the box OLED isn't great for desktop use It didn’t take long for the few OLED monitors we’ve seen to claim positions among the best gaming monitors , but now we have an exciting advancement — Asus’ take on this emerging panel tech. The PG27AQDM looks like just another 27-inch OLED gaming monitor, but it does a lot to improve on the design LG debuted earlier this year.
Asus ROG Swift OLED (PG27AQDM) specs Striking ROG design Better control The brightness solution OLED woes Best of both worlds gaming Should you buy the Asus ROG Swift PG27AQDM? On the surface, Asus managed to improve the brightness, which was the main criticism of LG’s take on a 27-inch OLED. But the PG27AQDM goes beyond that with a more robust range of features and the signature flair ROG monitors are known for.
CES 2023: Asus’ new 27-inch OLED monitor hits the sweet spot for gamers LG finally did it: a 27-inch OLED gaming monitor with a 240Hz refresh rate The ROG Swift PG42UQ is the 42-inch OLED gaming monitor I’ve been waiting for Asus ROG Swift OLED (PG27AQDM) specs Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Asus ROG Swift OLED (PG27AQDM) Screen size 26.5 inches Panel type OLED Resolution 2,560 x 1,440 Peak brightness 450 nits (SDR), 1,000 nits (HDR) HDR Yes Local dimming 3,686,400 zones Contrast ratio 1,500,000:1 Response time 0.03ms (GtG) Refresh rate 240Hz Curve No Speakers N/A Inputs 1x DisplayPort 1.4, 2x HDMI 2.0 Ports 2x USB 3.2 Gen 1 Type-A, 3.5mm headphone Adjustments 60 degrees swivel, 180 degrees pivot, 25 degrees tilt, 4.3 inches height List price $1,000 Striking ROG design Jacob Roach / Digital Trends The ROG Swift OLED looks amazing, but that shouldn’t come as a surprise. Asus makes some beautiful-looking monitors, and the ROG Swift OLED brings some much-needed style to the growing world of OLED gaming displays.
It sports Asus’ signature tripoint stand, which includes a soft underglow that shines the ROG logo under the elevated monitor. There’s also an ROG logo on the back that lights up like Asus’ AniMe matrix on laptops such as the Zephrus M16 , as well as a frameless design. There’s still a bezel, but there’s virtually no frame around the monitor.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Combin all that with how thin the panel is, and the ROG Swift OLED feels like a futuristic gaming monitor. Asus furthers that feeling with a few unique features. For example, there’s a 1/4-inch thread on the top of the stand if you want to mount a camera, similar to the Asus ROG PG42UQ.
Asus actually took some lessons from that larger 42-inch OLED as well. The heat sink inside, according to Asus, leads to 5% lower temperatures, with a 17% increase in brightness compared to the PG42UQ. I don’t have the PG42UQ on hand to compare, but I can say that the active cooling in the ROG Swift OLED was never audible during my testing.
Better control Jacob Roach / Digital Trends There isn’t anything too exciting going on with the ports of the ROG Swift OLED 27. You have two HDMI 2.0 ports, along with a single DisplayPort 1.4 connection. You’ll want to use the DisplayPort connection if you can — HDMI 2.0 locks the monitor to 120Hz.
You also get a couple of USB 3.2 Gen 1 connections and a 3.5mm headphone jack through the USB-B port. Even if you don’t need the USB hub, you should hook up the USB-B cable for DisplayWidget Center.
DisplayWidget Center is a great addition to the ROG Swift PG27AQDM.
Asus took some notes from monitors like the Sony InZone M9 and developed DisplayWidget Center. It’s an app that allows you to control all of the settings of your monitor from your desktop, including the OLED panel care settings.
It’s a great addition, but you don’t need to use DisplayWidget Center if you don’t want to mess with the extra cables. The four-way joystick is easily accessible, and Asus has a clean and concise on-screen display. Thankfully, there are dedicated power and input buttons alongside the joystick, so you don’t need to fiddle with pushing it every direction to find what you need.
The brightness solution Jacob Roach / Digital Trends The ROG Swift OLED comes with the same panel as the LG UltraGear OLED 27 , so it inherits a lot of the same qualities. Asus goes a little further, though, bumping up the brightness by a significant margin.
That was the biggest criticism of LG’s take — it was too dim. I measured a peak brightness of just 204 nits on the LG monitor, while the ROG Swift OLED reached 297 nits of peak brightness. That’s far lower than what Asus advertises, but that shouldn’t come as a surprise. OLEDs are much dimmer than LCD monitors like the Samsung Odyssey Neo G8.
The brightness is significantly higher than what LG showed off earlier this year.
That’s around the brightness of the Alienware 34 QD-OLED in SDR — but keep in mind that QD-OLED is mainly impressive because of its brightness advantage over OLED. HDR is where the ROG Swift OLED gets interesting, though.
As usual, the display doesn’t reach 1,000 nits across the full screen. It gets close with a 3% window, though, topping out at 931 nits and validating Asus’ brightness claims. Stretch that out to a 25% window, and the brightness shrinks to 406 nits. It’s still not the brightness of a high-end LCD, but the brightness is significantly higher than what LG showed off earlier this year.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Brightness and contrast are the best part of the OLED quality; remember, OLED allows every pixel to reach true black levels, theoretically offering infinite contrast. Color is a different story entirely, and that’s where the ROG Swift OLED struggles.
In SDR, the color coverage is solid with 97% DCI-P3 and 91% AdobeRGB, but the color accuracy is all over the place. Out of the box, the blues and reds were way off, resulting in a color difference of 9 (most monitors aim for less than 2). Asus claims the monitor comes calibrated, but my results say otherwise. HDR performance is worse, as is expected from an OLED panel with a white subpixel.
The good news is that this is an issue with the calibration of the monitor, not the panel itself. Using the SpyderX, I was able to achieve a 1.3 color difference, which is more than acceptable for a panel of this caliber. During my review period, Asus released a firmware update to improve HDR color accuracy, which helped, so hopefully a future update can improve default color performance even more. The sRGB mode on the monitor is fairly accurate, so you can limit the monitor to that color space.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends That only really matters if you want to do content creation. The default color profile is technically wrong, but it still looks great. I played through some of Cyberpunk 2077 ‘s new Overdrive mode with the default profile, and I had to pull myself away from it to write this review. It looks fantastic, but if you want to do some video or photo editing, a significant calibration is in order.
OLED woes The ROG Swift OLED looks great, and with calibration, you can use it for content creation. OLED comes with some problems, though, and the ROG Swift OLED isn’t above those issues.
First is burn-in.
OLED burn-in risks are overblown , even on a desktop monitor, but it’s still something to keep in mind if you want to use the monitor primary for desktop use. This is a slightly more prominent issue on the ROG Swift OLED because it can get brighter. Static images at high brightness for a long period of time lead to a higher risk of burn-in, and I saw slight hints of image retention even during my review period.
Asus includes a ton of migration features. By default, you’ll get a notification after every eight hours of consecutive use to run the pixel-cleaning feature, but Asus goes further. There’s an automatic screen saver, along with a setting that will automatically dim static logos. There’s always a small risk of burn-in, but some minor upkeep will keep the ROG Swift OLED operating for years into the future.
The Alienware 24 QD-OLED provides similar burn-in notices.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends If anything, the more pressing issue is the WRGB subpixel layout. This is a problem that showed up on the Alienware 34 QD-OLED and the LG UltraGear OLED 27, and it comes down to text clarity. In short, there’s a bit of fringing on text due to the extra white subpixel.
It’s not an issue for me, even on a 27-inch, 1440p screen that’s sitting fairly close to my face. However, this is definitely something that comes down to preference, and you may find it to be a problem if you’re looking at text all day. For my part, I have no issues with text clarity, and I use the Alienware 34 QD-OLED every day to write articles.
Best of both worlds gaming Jacob Roach / Digital Trends The HDR experience on the ROG Swift OLED 27 is fantastic, especially in cinematic titles like Cyberpunk 2077.
It goes beyond great HDR due to the low response times of OLED. Asus claims 0.03 milliseconds, and although the monitor is closer to 0.2ms, it’s still one of the fastest response times you can get out of a monitor right now.
Even the fastest LCDs only get to 1ms. Combined with the 240Hz refresh rate, you’re getting exceptional motion clarity that’s only rivaled by esports displays like the Alienware AW2524H.
 Games like Cyberpunk 2077 or Forza Horizon 5 look fantastic with HDR turned on, and the ROG Swift OLED is fast enough that you can compete in games like Overwatch 2 and Valorant.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Beyond the motion clarity, the monitor supports Adaptive Sync, allowing you to use G-Sync with Nvidia GPUs and FreeSync with AMD GPUs. Asus includes a few additional settings, such as a frames-per-second (fps) counter, timer, and genre-specific presets, but I imagine they won’t be selling points for most users.
The gaming experience on the ROG Swift OLED is one of the best you can buy right now, combining the excellent motion clarity of an esports monitor and the world-class HDR performance of OLED. It’s only matched by the Alienware 34 QD-OLED and LG UltraGear OLED 27, and Asus has a few key areas where it has made improvements.
Should you buy the Asus ROG Swift PG27AQDM? Jacob Roach / Digital Trends We’ve already seen what a 27-inch OLED gaming monitor can do, but the ROG Swift OLED 27 builds on the design LG cemented with higher brightness and a more robust range of features. Color accuracy is a killer out of the box, but hopefully Asus can further address color issues with future firmware updates.
Among the two 27-inch OLED monitors we currently have, this is the one to buy. However, the Alienware 34 QD-OLED still poses a huge threat to the ROG Swift OLED 27. The Alienware monitor has better color performance before calibration, and it’s around the same price Asus is charging. Between the two monitors, I’d still pick the Alienware, but it’s easy to justify the Asus if you’re not into a 21:9 aspect ratio.
There’s no doubt the ROG Swift OLED 27 is competing with the best gaming monitor you can buy right now. However, it’s important to remember that OLED isn’t for everyone. As impressive as it is for both cinematic and competitive gaming, if you find yourself primarily doing work on a desktop, an LCD display will serve you better.
Editors' Recommendations Watch out, Steam Deck — Asus ROG Ally might run Cyberpunk at over 60 fps Dough (formerly Eve) now has its own 27-inch 240Hz OLED gaming monitor Asus Zenbook 14X OLED Space Edition hands-on review: To the stars Asus stuffs AMD Ryzen 5000 chips into its ZenBook 13 OLED and 14 Asus ROG Zephyrus G14 hands-on review: A gaming laptop with its own light show Monitor Reviews Product Reviews Computing Asus announced at CES 2020 that it's partnered with Nvidia to release the world's-fastest monitor. With a 360Hz refresh rate, the new 24.5-inch ROG Swift 360 boasts refresh speeds that are up to six times faster than traditional screens, giving esports and enthusiast gamers a competitive edge over opponents when playing action-packed titles. With such a rapid refresh rate, gamers should be able to capture the full capability of their gaming systems, supporting framerates all the way up to 360 frames per second without stuttering or skipping frames.
"At 360Hz, game frames are displayed once every 2.8ms — up to 6X faster than traditional gaming displays and TVs," the companies said in a joint statement. To help drive the fast refresh rate, the ROG Swift 360 relies on Variable Refresh Rate screen technology to ensure tear-free frames and low latency. The LCD panel comes with a FHD 1080p resolution.
Computing For many users, 13.3-inch laptops are just a bit too small while 15.6-inch laptops are just a bit too large. The PC industry is nothing if not diverse, though, and so there's an option -- a host of 14-inch laptops that straddle the line between too tiny and too huge.
And there are real alternatives even within a niche like this. You can choose a laptop like the Asus ZenBook 14 UX433 that uses tiny bezels to fit that 14-inch display into a 13-inch chassis, or you can go with a less expensive and slightly larger laptop like the 2019 Acer Swift 3 that adds in a discrete GPU for a little less money. Which of these two options is more worth the money? Design Computing Previous Next Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
