Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Cooler Master Tempest GP27Q review: a mini-LED wonder By Jacob Roach Close $500.00 Fantastic color performance 576 full-array local dimming zones Wide range of stand adjustments 165Hz refresh rate Adaptive Sync support Weak cable management solution Poor black levels The Cooler Master Tempest GP27Q challenges for a spot on the list of the best gaming monitors , which has mostly stayed static for the past few years. It delivers on high-end HDR performance well below $1,00 — and not by thin margins. Powered by a mini-LED backlight, the GP27Q sprints past monitors that were impressive just a few months ago and establishes a new bar for quality.
Cooler Master GP27Q specs A function over form design Packed with features Why the GP27Q is such a big deal Gaming on the Cooler Master GP27Q Should you buy the Cooler Master GP27Q? Minor issues are present, but the $500 GP27Q’s vibrant colors and off the charts HDR performance still shine, especially given how inexpensive the monitor is.
Cooler Master’s Orb X gaming pod is futuristic and utterly absurd ViewSonic’s new mini-LED gaming monitor looks like 34 inches of curved glory Cooler Master’s GamePod is a gaming chair ripped straight from a sci-fi movie Cooler Master GP27Q specs Cooler Master GP27Q Screen size 27 inches Panel type Quantum Dot IPS Resolution 2,560 x 1,400 (1440p, 2K, QHD) Peak brightness 1,200 nits (HDR), 600 nits (SDR) HDR Yes Local dimming 576 local dimming zones Contrast ratio 50,000:1 (HDR), 1,000:1 (SDR) Response time 0.5ms (MPRT) Refresh rate 165Hz Curve N/A Speakers 2x 2W speakers Inputs 1x DisplayPort 1.4, 2x HDMI 2.0 USB ports 1x USB-C with 90W power delivery, 2x USB 3.2 Adjustments 90 degrees pivot, 60 degrees swivel, 25 degrees tilt Wireless N/A List price $500 A function over form design Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Cooler Master clearly focused on features and function over design on the GP27Q — and that’s not a bad thing. The monitor and, in particular, the stand are unexciting, but they still offer great stability and a wide range of adjustments (including the option to turn the monitor fully vertical).
You get a bit of bias lighting on the back of the monitor, but it’s not very bright, and I couldn’t find any options to adjust the color. It just cycles through an RGB spectrum, but you can turn the lighting off in the menu.
Cable management is handled through a plastic clip on the back of the stand, which works, but it isn’t ideal. Given the cylindrical design of the stand, it’s tough to hide cables without them sticking out, and the clip just draws more attention to where they’re routed.
Packed with features Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Given the excellent HDR quality on the GP27Q (I’ll get to that next), I didn’t expect anything special from the additional features. But Cooler Master packed this monitor full of extras.
The winner is easily the USB-C port that includes 90 watts of power delivery. You’ll probably have a gaming desktop hooked up to the GP27Q most of the time, but the the single-port charging and display connection through USB-C is great if you want to drop your work laptop and get some things done on a larger screen. That might be a niche use case for a gaming monitor, but it’s also something few other manufacturers entertain.
It makes the built-in KVM switch more usable, too. Monitors like the Gigabyte M32U include a KVM, but with USB-C power on tap, it makes more sense to toggle your keyboard and mouse between a desktop, laptop, and console so you never have to swap cables.
The monitor supports HDMI 2.1, so you can run the higher resolution at the full refresh rate.
In the same vein, the GP27Q includes stereo speakers. They sound flat, but they still get fairly loud and don’t distort. You’ll want to use a gaming headset most of the time, but the included speakers are a great fallback — and again, an area most gaming monitors skimp on.
Outside of the USB-C connection, you also get a DisplayPort 1.4 connection and two HDMI 2.0. HDMI 2.1 has a lot more bandwidth, but it’s not necessary for the resolution and refresh rate of the GP27Q. The 4K GP27U supports HDMI 2.1, so you can run the higher resolution at the full refresh rate.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends You also get a pair of USB 3.2 ports under the monitor and a 3.5mm headphone jack. My only quibble is the on-screen display (OSD) menu. It works, but I prefer a wider swath of settings (the OSD doesn’t even include a factory reset, which is a vital setting on any monitor).
A desktop OSD menu like the one offered on the MSI Optix MPG 32 QD , would have also been nice, though that’s a lot to ask from a monitor that already includes so many features.
Why the GP27Q is such a big deal Jacob Roach / Digital Trends HDR is why the GP27Q is such a big deal. Many 1440p monitors that sell for around $500, like Samsung’s Odyssey G7 , support HDR, but it’s not very good. Edge-lit local dimming with only a handful of zones is common in this price bracket, and it’s the main reason why HDR has been so bad on PC for so long. But that’s not the case with the GP27Q.
It includes 576 full-array local dimming zones, far outpacing the eight zones on the Odyssey G7 and even the 96 zones on the Sony InZone M9.
 More zones means the GP27Q is able to handle brighter and darker areas at the same time on screen, improving contrast and HDR in the process.
That’s how they should work in theory, but the GP27Q leans heavier on the bright end. I measured a peak brightness in HDR at 930 nits for the full screen, which is even brighter than the Samsung Odyssey Neo G8.
 Black levels are the problem. While most IPS panels reach down to 0.05 nits, the GP27Q only went down to 0.11 nits.
With HDR on, the black levels are far more gray, but it’s not too big of a deal in games. Brightness sliders are your best friend with the GP27Q, which made Destiny 2 and Cyberpunk 2077 far more palatable with HDR turned on.
The large array of local dimming zones is a huge plus for the GP27Q, but they aren’t finely tuned. The most aggressive local dimming level is noticeable as zones transition, so I settled for the medium setting for most of my testing. This helps the dimming zones disappear in the background and keeps the insane brightness from being as noticeable.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends You don’t need to turn on HDR with the GP27Q, though. It’s a mighty impressive monitor in SDR. I measured peak brightness of about 570 nits, which is very bright for an IPS panel. The contrast ratio was only 850:1, though, emphasizing that the GP27Q gets its contrast from brightness, not from low black levels.
It’s the color coverage that stands out: 100% of sRGB, 99% of AdobeRGB, and an astonishing 97% of DCI-P3 measured on my SpyderX, all with a color error of just over 1. That’s world-class color performance for a $500 monitor, and a lot of it comes courtesy of quantum dot, which the GP27Q is equipped with.
The GP27Q is a big deal due to its 576 dimming zones, but the HDR still can’t hold a candle to an OLED panel like the Asus ROG Swift PG42UQ due to the high black levels. The dimming zones help, and the GP27Q stood out in my testing with an exceptional color performance and eye-scorching brightness.
Gaming on the Cooler Master GP27Q Jacob Roach / Digital Trends I spent a few weeks gaming on the Cooler Master GP27Q, trying out everything from Destiny 2 to Marvel’s Midnight Suns to Warhammer 40,000: Darktide.
It’s a great gaming display, fit with ultralow response times, variable refresh rate, and fantastic HDR — at least in some games.
It doesn’t include official G-Sync or FreeSync support, but it supports the open Adaptive Sync standard. That means you can use variable refresh rate with an Nvidia or AMD GPU. I tested both, and they both work.
Be careful if you have HDR on, though. Originally, the GP27Q didn’t support variable refresh rate while you had local dimming turned on. Thankfully, Cooler Master has fixed this bug through a firmware update, so if you plan on picking up the GP27Q, make sure to update the firmware.
The GP27Q leans on the brighter end of contrast, leading to higher black levels.
With a 165Hz refresh rate, 1ms gray-to-gray response time, and variable refresh rate, the GP27Q held up excellently in gaming. My only minor gripe was brightness. The GP27Q gets super bright, and I play games in darker rooms. That means I’d usually have to turn down the brightness, and the GP27Q doesn’t look as impressive in that setting.
HDR largely depends on the brightness settings you have in-game, too. As mentioned, the HDR on the GP27Q leans toward the brighter end of contrast, leading to higher black levels. You can counteract that with brightness and midpoint sliders in games like Destiny 2 and Cyberpunk 2077, but other games don’t always afford that luxury. You’ll have to adjust the picture settings as you play.
Still, there are great gaming images for you to find on the GP27Q, both with HDR on and off. The specs hold up, and the image quality is fantastic, especially with the panel’s fully saturated and accurate colors.
Should you buy the Cooler Master GP27Q? Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Even with minor gripes, it’s hard denying the excellence of the Cooler Master GP27Q. Superb color meets great HDR and top-shelf gaming features — and all for a price that undercuts monitors that offer less. If nothing else, the GP27Q is a taste of what Mini LED can deliver at lower prices, and it tastes sweet.
Although more expensive than 1440p monitors like the HP Omen 27c , the Cooler Master GP27Q also offers a lot more. It’s easily the best 1440p monitor you can buy right now, and it may not be outclassed for quite some time.
Editors' Recommendations Cooler Master’s bizarre gaming shoe costs a cool $6,000 Cooler Master’s new quantum dot mini-LED gaming monitors look incredible New Cooler Master gaming monitor has killer mini-LED screen Cooler Master’s slick gaming keyboard can pair up to 3 Bluetooth devices Monitor Reviews PC Gaming Product Reviews Computing The design of Apple's Magic Mouse continues to be a major complaint among Mac users, a blight on Apple's otherwise fantastic design choices. The ergonomics are inhuman, it still uses a Lightning charging port (even on the new M3 iMac), and it can't be charged while being used.
However, an engineer has introduced his design concept that would not only solve the charging issue on the Magic Mouse but also make the design ergonomic and comfortable for natural handling.
Computing Lenovo is probably one of the best-known laptop makers, especially since they have an incredibly wide variety of them to choose from. That also means they have an excellent selection of gaming laptops, so you can hone in on something that fits your budget. That's especially the case with the ongoing early Black Friday deals that are seeing laptops being cut down in price across the board. That said, Lenovo's selection of gaming laptops is too wide for us to include all their active deals here, so we've selected some of our favorites for both AMD and Intel CPUs. Also, if you're not sure of where to start, you should check out our list of best Lenovo laptops for some good options.
Best Lenovo Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals (AMD) Lenovo has a wider selection of AMD gaming laptops, which is great if you want to go with something AMD-powered. Unfortunately, there aren't any good deals on Lenovo laptops with both an AMD CPU and GPU, but the selection below is wide enough to pick something that fits your needs a bit better. And, if you want something with an RTX 4090 on a budget, then the AMD version is probably the cheapest for Lenovo.
Computing Printers are complicated machines featuring a mix of plastics, metals, electronics, and components, some of which are potentially flagged as hazardous waste. In 2023, it's more important than ever to be kind to the planet, and there are several environmentally safe ways to dispose of a printer.
Even the best printers in the world can reach the end of their life after several years if ink or toner is no longer available. A well-loved printer can suffer from accumulated wear and tear or damage from a catastrophic power surge that's too expensive to repair.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
