Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Corsair Xeneon 32UHD144 review: A great gaming monitor, at a price By Jacob Roach Close $1,000.00 Excellent color coverage and accuracy iCue integration Simple on-screen display Multiple cable management options FreeSync and G-Sync support Limited HDR Local dimming is too noticeable A little expensive Big and bulky Corsair isn’t known for making gaming monitors, but it’s starting to make inroads into the space. The Xeneon 32UHD144 is the company’s first 4K gaming monitor, and although it’s not quite up to snuff with the best gaming monitors you can buy, it’s still a solid step forward into a new market.
Specs Design and features Ports and controls Image quality HDR performance Gaming performance Pricing Our take It’s not just a retread of other 4K monitors you’ve seen, as it implements a quantum dot layer to improve color, which works wonders. Integration with Corsair’s excellent iCue software is a big selling point as well. Where the Xeneon 32 loses out is on HDR and pricing, especially as competing displays like the Sony InZone M9 become more common.
10 best gaming monitors of 2023: tested and reviewed Samsung’s first flat mini-LED gaming monitor doesn’t come cheap The best 32-inch gaming monitors for 2023 Specs Corsair Xeneon 32UHD144 Screen size 32 inches Panel type IPS quantum dot Resolution 3840 x 2560 (4K) Peak brightness 400 nits (SDR), 600 nits (HDR) Contrast ratio 1000:1 HDR DisplayHDR 600 w/ Edge-lit local dimming (16 zones) Response time 12ms GtG, 1ms MPRT Refresh rate 144Hz Variable refresh AMD FreeSync Premium, Nvidia G-Sync Compatible Curve None Speakers None Inputs 2x HDMI 2.1, 1x DisplayPort 1.4, 1x USB-C (Alt mode) USB ports 2x USB-A, 1x USB-C Adjustments 25 degrees tilt, 60 degrees swivel, 4.3 inches height Weight 20.9 pounds Dimensions (WxHxD) 28.8 x 23.9 x 12.4 inches List price $1,000 Design and features Jacob Roach / Digital Trends The Xeneon 32 is a monster monitor, for better and worse. It includes a large metal stand with plenty of cable routing potential, as well as several cable routing channels on the back of the chunky arm. The top of the stand even includes a mount for the Elgato Flex Arm, allowing you to attach a light or webcam directly to the monitor.
I love the goodies, but the Xeneon 32 is just big.
A 32-inch screen is already massive, and Corsair went with a stand that eats up desk space. It doesn’t stretch out in front of the monitor like the stand on Acer Predator X28 , but it’s still massive. It’s heavy, too. With the monitor and stand, the Xeneon 32 is just a hair short of 21 pounds. That’s six pounds heavier than the 34-inch ultrawide Alienware 34 QD-OLED.
Big and heavy isn’t inherently bad, but you should know what you’re getting into with the Xeneon 32. The good news is that the stand is a significant contributor to the weight and size, and you can replace it with a monitor arm thanks to the display’s 100mm x 100mm VESA mount.
Ports and controls For ports, the Xeneon 32 has the basics down pat. The two HDMI 2.1 ports take point, wenabling 4K at 144Hz, unlike older HDMI 2.0 ports. Most PC gamers will use the DisplayPort 1.4 port instead, but it’s nice to see HDMI 2.1 for high refresh rates on the PlayStation 5 and Xbox Series X. You can also hook up the display over USB-C with the same specs as the DisplayPort, though most graphics cards don’t have a USB-C output these days.
You get a four-way joystick for controlling the monitor, and Corsair’s on-screen display (OSD) is clean and organized. I never had any issues navigating it, but you don’t have to control the monitor this way. You actually have three additional ways to control the monitor, though I imagine most people will use Corsair’s excellent iCue software.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends I have to say that iCue is my favorite peripheral app, and it’s a big reason I rate peripherals like the Corsair Sabre Pro so highly. The Xeneon 32 will show up in iCue just like peripherals would, and you can adjust everything you’d normally see in the on-screen display (OSD). That includes all of your picture settings, but also settings like the audio source and if you want the LED power indicator on.
The app also enables two other ways to control the monitor — through Elgato’s Stream Deck or the Corsair iCue Nexus. Both come with a more limited range of settings, like your input source, picture mode, and gamma, but they’re nice to have. You need one of these pieces of hardware to unlock this functionality, and the Xeneon doesn’t make an argument to buy one. If you already have a Stream Deck or Nexus, though, it’s a nice perk.
You have a good amount of bandwidth in the settings, and Corsair doesn’t bog down the experience with a messy on-screen display like the MSI Optix MPG 32.
 Corsair provides several picture modes, including sRGB, AdobeRGB, and DCI-P3 modes for creative workers, and you can access settings like the local dimming toggle even with HDR turned on.
Image quality Jacob Roach / Digital Trends There’s one reason the Xeneon 32 looks so great: quantum dot technology. This extra layer boosts colors way beyond what typical IPS panels are capable of, and it allows the Xeneon to achieve excellent color coverage and accuracy. HDR isn’t great, as I’ll dig into in the next section, but quantum dot meant I was fine leaving HDR turned off.
Let’s get the results out of the way: You’re getting 100% coverage of the sRGB and Adobe RGB color spaces, and the Xeneon 32 has dedicated presets for each of these modes to limit the color coverage. You also get 95% coverage of DCI-P3 according to my results, and the monitor is shockingly color accurate out of the box — I measured a Delta E of 0.81, which is suitable for professional color work.
Where the Xeneon 32 struggles is black levels. I measured a peak brightness of nearly 480 nits, well above the rating Corsair advertises. The washed-out blacks meant that the contrast was much lower, though, hitting 660:1 as opposed to the 1,000:1 that IPS panels can manage. It’s not a problem with HDR turned off, but with it on, the contrast stings.
Quantum dot does wonders for color saturation.
Local dimming is available, both with HDR on and off, but the slow transitions and limited number of dimming zones make it not an option for most people.
I didn’t care about contrast when using the Xeneon 32, though. I was all focused on color. Quantum dot does wonders for color saturation, making games, movies, and even the Windows desktop looks much more vibrant. The Xeneon 32 in SDR looks like you cranked up the saturation dial just before it became too much, and I love the results.
The problem is the competition the Xeneon 32 faces. At $1,000, it’s competing against Sony’s InZone M9, which has much better HDR, and Alienware’s 34 QD-OLED, which further enhances quantum dot over a contrasty OLED panel. Corsair’s monitor can go toe-to-toe with most 4K monitors in its price bracket, but it doesn’t stand up to the cream of the crop and doesn’t offer anything new in the panel department.
HDR performance Jacob Roach / Digital Trends HDR on PC is terrible , and a lot of that comes down to monitors. Displays like the Sony InZone M9 are pushing the envelope with Full Array Local Dimming (FALD) and a larger number of local dimming zones, but the Xeneon 32 isn’t joining Sony’s ranks.
The display carries VESA’s DisplayHDR 600 certification, which is just a step above the lowest DisplayHDR 400 certification you find on monitors like the HP Omen 27c.
 The certification is important, but it’s more important how the monitor gets there. Corsair uses edge-lit local dimming over 16 zones, which means the monitor can adjust how bright the backlight is over certain sections of the screen to increase contrast.
It just doesn’t hit the mark. Even achieving upwards of 700 nits of brightness with HDR blaring, the blacks continued to look washed-out in gray due to the IPS panel. This is a limitation of the panel technology Corsair is using, and without proper FALD like the InZone M9 offers, you won’t get solid HDR performance.
Gaming performance Jacob Roach / Digital Trends The Xeneon 32 hits all the marks for gaming performance. The 144Hz refresh rate is perfect for most gamers, it works with FreeSync and G-Sync for variable refresh rate, and a dedicated gaming mode can make response times as fast as possible. With standard dynamic range, the Xeneon is a great gaming monitor.
I played Destiny 2, a bit of Resident Evil 2, and Monster Hunter Rise.
All three looked great, but I was constantly reminded of the 4K resolution with an RTX 3070. Remember, 4K is still demanding in 2022, so make sure you have one of the best graphics cards in your PC if you want to pick up Corsair’s latest display.
The limited dimming zones and washed-out black levels just didn’t do it for HDR gaming.
Response times and variable refresh rate were solid, but I rarely switched to HDR to play games. The limited dimming zones and washed-out black levels just didn’t do it, even in Destiny 2.
Worse, the quantum dot layer isn’t at its best in games with HDR turned on. Turning off HDR and switching to the Game preset results in much more vibrant colors and a boost in contrast.
I loved gaming on the Xeneon with HDR turned off. Quantum dot does so much for the color that you’ll forget HDR is even an option, frankly. Good HDR would boost that experience further, though. I would’ve liked to see more dimming zones, or maybe even better contrast with a VA panel, especially given the price Corsair is asking.
Pricing The Xeneon 32 isn’t too expensive, but it comes in at $100 more than its most direct competitor — the MSI Optix MPG 32. I suspect both the MSI and Corsair monitors are using the same panel, as they both offer a 32-inch 4K screen with a 144Hz refresh rate, and they both use quantum dot to enhance the colors. At $1,000, the Xeneon isn’t too expensive, but it’s on the edge.
I’ll have to see what the monitor actually sells for when it hits the market. At some points, the competing MSI monitor sold for around $1,400. Right now, $100 separates the two monitors. Depending on sales and demand, though, I imagine they’ll end up selling around the same price, give or take $50.
While iCue integration is a reason to spend the extra money, if you’re only concerned about specs, you can save big. The Gigabyte M32U , for example, is also a 32-inch 4K display with a 144Hz refresh rate, and it often sells for $750 or less. It doesn’t have as good of HDR performance, but frankly, the Xeneon isn’t jaw-dropping in the HDR department either.
Our take The Xeneon 32 stands out with quality of life features like iCue and excellent color due to the quantum dot layer. As displays like Sony’s InZone M9 and Alienware’s 34 QD-OLED become available though, the price is a bit high for what Corsair is offering. Gamers will love the boosted color, but if you’re after HDR, there are better options for around the same price.
Are there any alternatives? Yes. The most direct competitor is the MSI MPG 32 QD, which also has a 32-inch screen with a quantum dot layer. If you don’t mind changing sizes, Sony’s InZone M9 and Alienware’s 34 QD-OLED are great alternatives that offer better overall image quality and far better HDR performance.
How long will it last? IPS panels will last for years at full brightness, so you can expect a decade or more of use out of the Xeneon 32 before you need to upgrade.
Should you buy it? Yes, assuming the price will come down. Right now, MSI’s offering is cheaper while matching the Xeneon 32 point-for-point. If they end up selling for around the same price, Corsair’s monitor is still a better option due to its iCue integration.
Editors' Recommendations These are the best ultrawide monitors you buy in 2023 The best 4K gaming monitors of 2023: ultrawides, high refresh rates, and more The best 4K gaming laptops for 2023 Asus’ 4K, 32-inch mini-LED gaming monitor might hit the perfect sweet spot We finally know the price of LG’s 240Hz OLED gaming monitors Monitor Reviews PC Gaming Product Reviews Computing It is all about the curves and features with Alienware's new 34-inch curved Quantum Dot-OLED gaming monitor (AW3423DWF), which is vying to be one of the best immersive gaming displays on the market.
Previous Computing You could only stream via AirPlay 2 to an overpriced Apple monitor or a Samsung smart TV -- until now. LG just released the Smart Monitor which has AirPlay 2 built into it and doubles as a smart home hub, so now you can stream from your Mac to the monitor without the need for cables.
The LG Smart Monitor 32SQ780S is a 32-inch 60Hz monitor with a 4K display mounted on an adjustable ergonomic stand. It’s a beefy boy, at nearly 25 pounds and 16 inches thick. There are USB-C ports on the back, but not much else in the way of I/O.
Computing Picking the right gaming monitor to match your needs is an important part of making the most out of your PC or laptop. After all, even the best desktop won't give you the greatest visuals unless you have a display that can match it. Gaming monitors often try too hard to tick all the boxes at once, which is why it's not always easy to pick one that offers great quality. We're here to make that process much simpler.
With a budget in the $1,000 range, you'll be able to pick and choose between some of the best monitors the market currently has to offer. Here's our list of favorites, including models for all kinds of games and setups.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
