Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Dell 32 4K USB-C Hub Monitor review: Convenient 4K docking perfection By Niels Broekhuijsen Close $899.00 Excellent connectivity options Great IPS picture quality Sturdy, modern construction Large 4K panel Superb warranty Expensive No wide-gamut color space Choosing the best monitor for yourself isn’t easy, especially if you’re looking for a display that can connect to your notebook over a single USB-C cable and handle all the connectivity. Fortunately, Dell has a new 32-inch 4K offering, called the Dell 32 4K USB-C Hub Monitor, codenamed the P3222QE.
Design Ports & controls Image quality Our take The two main highlights of this display are its large 4K IPS panel along with USB-C hub capabilities, meaning it can charge your laptop, send display and audio data to the monitor, and USB and Ethernet signals, all over a single cable. But this feature set doesn’t come cheap: The P3222QE comes in costing $899. Nevertheless, it has the potential to be a great home office centerpiece for those who want to easily switch between laptop and desktop mode.
The best 4K gaming monitors of 2023: ultrawides, high refresh rates, and more Asus’ 4K, 32-inch mini-LED gaming monitor might hit the perfect sweet spot The best gaming monitors under $1,000: curved, ultrawide, 4K, and more Design Niels Broekhuijsen/Digital Trends Unpacking the display, you’re immediately greeted with the display’s hefty stand and solid build quality. You won’t find a fancy metal build here, but the P3222QE’s plastic body is built to a quality finish with a sleek design and no ugly gaps in the panels. The P3222QE has a tidy professional appearance and will fit well in most homes and offices, with its most standout visual feature being its large size.
The stand has a noticeable heft to it, and comes with all the essential features we expect on Dell stands: Height adjustments, tilt, swiveling, and rotating to portrait – this is essential on productivity monitors for achieving an ergonomic, healthy posture.
Niels Broekhuijsen/Digital Trends The stand also has a cable hole through its center for tidy cable management, though I would have preferred to see this cutout a little higher up. In positions above half-height, many of the cables are still visible — though this is not an issue at lower positions.
Ports & controls As said, connectivity is the P3222QE’s strength, featuring HDMI, DisplayPort, and USB-C inputs. For hubbing, there are four USB 3.0 ports and Gigabit Ethernet, though a headphone jack is seemingly missing.
Of the USB ports, two are located next to the display inputs for connecting more fixed-type devices such as mice, webcams, and keyboards, while there are two more USB ports along the bottom of the display in a handy spot for connecting USB sticks or briefly connected devices of that nature.
Having two USB ports within hands-reach makes the P3222QE a handy desktop companion.
Some other USB-C monitors with lavish connectivity occasionally include a DisplayPort output, as the P2720DC does , and that’s helpful for daisy-chaining a second display while maintaining the one-cable docking capabilities. The P3222QE, on the other hand, does not have this feature, so you will be limited to a single monitor if you want to use just a single cable. But there is a good reason for this: the Type-C connection does not have the required bandwidth for multiple 4K displays. So it’s hardly a point of criticism.
The P3222QE is capable of charging the connected USB-C device with up to 65W of power, which is plenty for the vast majority of productivity-oriented notebooks. More powerful mobile workstations or gaming laptops may require more power though, so do double-check your laptop’s power requirements before purchasing this monitor.
The P3222QE’s OSD (on-screen display) is a simple one, but it has most of the essential features one needs for this type of monitor. At the back of the monitor are two controls: A power button, and a little joystick for controlling the OSD.
The OSD itself is sharp and easy to navigate, though its text is quite small, and it’s placed way down at the bottom right corner of the display. Being a rather large display, this makes the OSD a bit un-ergonomic to navigate as you have to hunch down to read it. But it’s just the OSD, and it’s not like you’ll spend a ton of time there anyway.
All the essential controls are there, including brightness and contrast settings, various preset color modes, and a handful of device settings. For inputs, there is even an option to rename the inputs, which is nice if you wanted to, say, name the USB-C port to ‘Laptop,’ DisplayPort to Desktop, and HDMI to Console, for example.
Image quality Featuring a large, 31.5-inch IPS panel with a 3840 x 2160 4K resolution, the image produced by the P3222QE is pleasantly sharp on the eyes with great color performance. The panel is capable of 1.07-billion colors, with a rated gamut covering 99% of the sRGB space. As such, this isn’t a wide gamut monitor, nor does it come with factory calibration, so we’ll see how it fares in our testing momentarily. Dell also promises a static contrast ratio of 1000:1 which is what’s expected from an IPS panel, and typical brightness is rated at 350 nits.
One of Dell’s strengths with its monitors is its coatings — where it used to be quite aggressive a decade ago, Dell has refined its coating process to produce a very soft anti-glare coating that is still highly effective at reducing glare. The P3222QE also has this soft coating, which makes its image pleasant on the eyes even at higher brightness levels.
So, without further ado, let’s throw our Datacolor Spyder X Elite onto the P3222QE and see how it fares.
Niels Broekhuijsen/Digital Trends All things considered, the P3222QE actually puts up a good performance. Its gamut is indeed limited to 99% of the sRGB space, which will leave lovers of wide-gamut panels wanting, but its color space is easy on the eyes and, qualitatively, this is a very good sRGB panel. Gamma performance is perfect out of the box nailed at 2.2 with just an 0.01 deviation, and color accuracy is tested at a Delta-E (difference from real) of 1.67. This is good enough for photo editing work, which the P3222QE is great for at its large size and high resolution.
Meanwhile, brightness performance is right on-point at 350 nits, with the static contrast ratio measured at a peak of 1100:1, exceeding the promised spec. Only the white point was a little off from the target at 6900K, producing a slightly colder image than desired.
After using the Spyder X Elite to calibrate the display and re-evaluate its performance, we found that we squeezed out 1% more sRGB coverage and color accuracy was improved to an impressive Delta-E of just 1.01. The white point was also refined, so all things considered, there is still an improvement to be found in the P3222QE’s performance with just a simple calibration. But, the image is more than good enough for most use cases, so unless you’re doing professional editing work, we’d just leave it as is.
Our take The P3222QE is an excellent 4K monitor that’s especially suited for use with notebooks thanks to its integrating hubbing capabilities. With up to 65 watts of power delivery over its USB-C connection, four USB 3.0 ports, and Gigabit Ethernet, the P3222QC has all the connectivity needed to set up a (home) office workstation that docks with the laptop over a single cable.
And that’s not to ignore the P3222QE’s image: With a large 32-inch 4K panel you get a ton of sharpness on a big panel, at a DPI that’s just comfortable enough for most people not to need UX scaling, giving you a ton of monitor real estate to work with. Color performance is also great, provided you operate within the sRGB color space. For most people, this won’t be a problem, and might in fact be preferable due to being easier on the eyes, though professional editors may prefer to opt for a high-gamut display if their work demands it.
Altogether, the P3222QE is an excellent big monitor for use with modern laptops , offering an unmatched level of practicality and excellent build and image quality. The only real catch is its $899 price point, though this is not completely outlandish if you consider its panel size and quality, along with the connectivity options and Dell’s excellent warranty program.
Are there any alternatives? If a 4K panel is too big for you and you prefer smaller displays, the Dell P2720DC may be more up your alley.
Otherwise, alternatives include the LG Ergo 32UN880 with similar specs, or the LG 32UP550 at almost half the price, if you’re willing to sacrifice the IPS panel’s quality for a cheaper VA unit.
How long will it last? Dell covers the P3222QE with a 3-year advance exchange-service warranty, which means that they’ll deliver a new one to your office or home before picking the old one up — and in my experience, they’re very swift with it too. This is great for when you can’t be without a monitor for long.
Beyond the warranty period, the P3222QE should last a minimum of five years too, if not longer. The LED lighting isn’t prone to failure, and there aren’t any other complexities that might detract from its potentially useful lifespan.
Should I buy it? Yes, if you’re looking for a big 4K monitor to use with your laptop that has the convenience of a single-cable connection, the Dell P3222QE is for you. It’s a tad expensive at $899, but you get a lot of quality and kit for the money, so the price is justified.
Editors' Recommendations Ditch your 4K monitor for one of the best 5K displays you can buy The best 4K laptops for 2023 LG’s latest 4K monitor wants to be your smart home hub The best 4K 120Hz gaming monitors for 2022 Lenovo unleashes an avalanche of monitors, including a 4K 144Hz beast Dell Monitor Reviews Product Reviews Windows Reviews Computing Dell has unveiled two new 4K monitors that use the latest IPS Black technology courtesy of LG Display. The 27-inch U2723QE and 32-inch U3223QE models are both 4K UltraSharp displays that, according to Dell, deliver 35 percent deeper blacks than IPS displays currently on the market.
These are the first monitors to use this display technology so far, and we don't know a ton about it just yet. Mini-LED or OLED monitors currently dominate the market when it comes to improved contrast and black levels, as seen in expensive options like the LG UltraFine Pro OLED or the ROG Swift PG32UQ mini-LED monitor. IPS Black is not necessarily an alternative to those, but could improve the image quality of traditional LED panels, which are much cheaper to produce.
Computing At CES 2022, Acer announced an expansion to its gaming monitor lineup, with one model featuring a screen big enough to serve as a TV replacement.
The company unveiled three new additions to its Predator series of gaming monitors, the Predator CG48, the Predator X32, and the X32 FP. The X32 received a CES Innovation Award in the “Computer Peripherals & Accessories” category, while the FP variant is claimed to be the “fastest 4K monitor currently available," though it may have already been surpassed by another gaming monitor announced at CES.
Predator CG48 Computing BenQ is looking to grab the attention of gamers attending the 2022 Consumer Electronics Show (CES.) The company that is most known for its monitors has just announced a new lineup of gamer-first products, including a 4K HDR gaming projector.
Being called the "only gaming projector on the market offering settings for 4K HDR game audio-visual enhancement," the new addition to BenQ's lineup is the X3000i 4K LED gaming projector. This projector is unlike any other as it covers 100% of the DCI-P3 color gamut, with preset audio-visual gamer modes. Those modes are tuned to 8.3ms response times, at the 120Hz frequency. These response times and frequencies are quite important when playing fast-paced games like Fortnite or even Call of Duty.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
