Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Dell UltraSharp 32 4K USB-C Hub Monitor review: Deep blacks, more power By Mark Coppock Close $1,150.00 Large, sharp 4K IPS panel Excellent image quality Truly useful USB-C hub and KVM switch Outstanding build quality and design Standout warranty and support Expensive HDR support is so-so Dell’s new UltraSharp 32 4K USB-C Hub Monitor U3223QE (whew!) looks a lot like the Dell 32 4K USB-C Hub Monitor P3222QE that we reviewed last year. We loved that monitor so much that we gave it an Editor’s Choice award for its excellent connectivity, great IPS picture, and more. It’s even on our list of the best monitors.
Specs Design Ports and controls Image quality Our take The U3223QE, however, is in Dell’s UltraSharp lineup, meaning it’s meant to offer even better performance and innovation — and indeed, it’s one of the first displays to use LG’s IPS Black technology that aims to offer deeper blacks and higher contrast. And there’s more to like, including increased USB-C power delivery at 90 watts compared to 65 watts.
Ditch your 4K monitor for one of the best 5K displays you can buy Asus’ 4K, 32-inch mini-LED gaming monitor might hit the perfect sweet spot LG’s latest 4K monitor wants to be your smart home hub The U3223QE is an expensive display, retailing for $1,150 while currently being on sale for $920. But you get what you pay for, including a large and sharp 4K panel that offers outstanding image quality and a genuinely convenient USB-C hub.
Specs Dell UltraSharp 32 4K USB-C Hub Monitor U3223QE Screen size 31.5-inch 16:9 Panel type IPS Resolution 3,840 x 2,160 Peak brightness 400 nits (typical) HDR DisplayHDR 400 Contrast ratio 2,000:1 Response time 5ms Fast mode 8ms Normal mode Color gamut 100% sRGB, 98% DCI-P3 Refresh rate 60Hz Curve No Speakers No Inputs 1x DisplayPort 1.4a, 1x HDMI 2.0, 1x USB-C with 90 watts power delivery USB ports 1x USB-C 3.2 Gen 2 upstream 4x USB-A 3.2 Gen 2 1x USB-A 3.2 Gen 2 with B.C. 1.2 1x USB-C 3.2 Gen 2 downstream 1x 3.5mm audio line out 1x RJ45 port 1x DisplayPort out Adjustments 26 degrees tilt, 60 degrees swivel, 150mm height, 180 degrees pivot Dimensions (HxWxD) 24.36 x 28.06 x 9.18 inches Weight 22.84 pounds List price $1,150 Design Mark Coppock/Digital Trends The U3223QE’s outward appearance is virtually identical to that of the P3222QE. It’s also a conservative design with small bezels and a simple silver stand, constructed of plastic but still exuding the impression of a weighty, robust, and well-constructed build. The U3223QE is a display that won’t feel out of place in any environment, except perhaps a hardcore gamer’s setup. If that’s your situation, then MSI’s Optix MPG 32 QD will offer a bit more of a gamer’s aesthetic without going crazy.
The unboxing process was refreshingly simple, and putting the display together was a breeze. Just carefully lift the display, secure one end of the heavy metal stand to the back of the display and the other to the stand’s base, and you’re ready to position it. It supports a wide range of movement, including height adjustment, swivel, and tilt, and it can be pivoted into portrait mode.
Regarding the portrait mode, make sure the display is straight-up before pivoting, or an edge can scrape along the base. Besides that caveat, it’s easy to position the display for maximum comfort and ergonomics.
Mark Coppock/Digital Trends One minor nit to pick was noted in our P3222QE review as well. There’s a hole in the stand for cable management, which is convenient, but it’s positioned too low and is uncovered if the display is lifted beyond a certain point. It would have been nice if the hole were higher up so that your unsightly cables remained more easily hidden.
Ultimately, it’s clear that Dell designed the U3223QE to emphasize what’s displayed on-screen rather than on the display’s outward appearance. And that’s perfect for most users, who would likely rather have their monitor fade into the background than serve as the center of attention.
Ports and controls Mark Coppock/Digital Trends The U3223QE includes the term “USB-C Hub” in its lengthy full name, and that’s for a good reason. Built into the display is a well-configured USB-C hub that can make using a laptop in the office a true convenience. There’s even a KVM (keyboard, video, and mouse) switch built in, making it easy to swap sources. And, in a switch from the P3222QE, power delivery to a laptop is higher at 90 watts versus 65 watts. That extends the range of laptops that can be fully powered by the hub, although that still leaves a universe of machines requiring proprietary power adapters.
Video inputs include DisplayPort 1.4 with Display Stream Compression (DSC) for visually lossless compression and High-Bandwidth Digital Content Protection (HDCP 2.2) support so you can stream Netflix at the full UHD resolution, HDMI 2.0 with HDCP 2.2 support, and USB-C with DSC support (DisplayPort 1.4 and HDCP 2.2). The USB-C input is the one that connects the hub and provides power delivery, while a second USB-C 3.2 Gen 2 port is available for upstream data only.
The hub’s connectivity is extensive, including a DisplayPort out for daisy-chaining displays (something missing on the P3222QE), four USB-A 3.2 Gen 2 ports (with one conveniently located underneath the bottom of the display), a USB-A 3.2 Gen 2 port with B.C. 1.2 charging, a USB-C 3.2. Gen 2 downstream port on the bottom of the display with up to 15 watts of charging power, a 3.5mm audio jack line-out, and an RJ45 Ethernet port.
That’s pretty much everything you need to fully configure a setup that can connect a keyboard, mouse, and multiple peripherals, allowing for an easy transition from a USB-C-equipped desktop to a laptop. If you don’t need such an elaborate setup, then something like Samsung’s UJ590 32-inch 4K display could save you some serious cash.
There’s an on-screen display (OSD) controlled by a joystick on the back of the display, with a power button being the only other physical control. The OSD is simple enough to use and provides control over all important aspects of the display, including the basics such as brightness and contrast.
You can select from a few color presets including Standard, Movie (too blue), and Game (not much different from Standard), as well as set the color temperature, establish the color space, and set a custom RGB mix. Here is also where you can set the refresh speed from the default of Normal (8 milliseconds) to Fast (5ms), turn on picture-in-picture mode, turn HDR on and off, and set the mode (Desktop, Movie, Game, and DisplayHDR 400, none of which seemed to have much immediate impact).
Image quality Mark Coppock/Digital Trends The U3223QE is built around a 31.5-inch IPS panel running at 4K (3,840 x 2160) resolution, which is sharp even on such a large display. The refresh rate is 60Hz, common among similar displays and hopefully something that will be increased in the next iteration. Mainstream laptops are adopting faster refresh rates, providing a smoother Windows 11 user interface, and it would be great to see the same in more nongaming external displays. One 32-inch display that offers 4K and a high 144Hz refresh rate is the Gigabyte M32U.
 Response time is 5ms in Fast mode and 8ms in Normal mode, making it just responsive enough for noncompetitive gamers, but nowhere near the 1ms you can get with TN panels.
Visually, the display looks great. It’s bright and colorful without being oversaturated. Blacks certainly seemed deeper than usual, providing excellent apparent contrast with, for example, black text on a white background. Dell rates the display as covering 100% of the sRGB gamut and 98% of DCI-P3, with 400 nits of brightness and a 2,000:1 contrast ratio.
IPS still isn’t capable of truly excellent HDR.
High dynamic range ( HDR ) support is certified as DisplayHDR 400, the lowest rating VESA hands out.
HDR support was merely OK. With HDR turned on, the U3223QE increased slightly in brightness, and colors became a little deeper with HDR turned on in Windows 11.
 Netflix HDR video was a bigger beneficiary, showing plenty of detail in darker scenes. The U3223QE still benefitted from turning HDR on, just don’t expect it to be a game-changer. IPS isn’t capable of truly excellent HDR as you’ll get with next-gen backlighting technology such as OLED, QD-OLED, or mini-LED displays, with the Asus ROG Swift PG32UQX being one of the best. Those are still incredibly rare, though, especially outside the world of gaming monitors.
According to my SpyderX colorimeter, the U3223QE does indeed provide a great image. Brightness exceeded Dell’s specifications at 447 nits, with the contrast ratio coming in just above specs at 2,050:1 — a phenomenal result for an IPS display and meeting Dell’s promises based on LG’s IPS Black technology. Colors were wide at 100% of sRGB, 89% of AdobeRGB, and 98% of DCI-P3, and color accuracy was excellent at a DeltaE of 0.92 (1.0 or less is indistinguishable to the human eye).
Gamma was perfect at 2.2, and the white point was just a little cold at 6,700 Kelvin at 100% brightness. Calibrating the U3223QE resulted in almost no change except for color accuracy, which actually fell off to a DeltaE of 0.99.
In other words, the U3223QE provides excellent results out of the box. Professional color graders might desire slightly better coverage of the AdobeRGB color space, but it’s hard to complain when the color accuracy is this good.
Our take The U3223QE provides a ton of adjustability, a solid build, and a conservative aesthetic that fits into professional environments. It also offers wide and accurate colors (particularly in sRGB) and excellent contrast for an IPS display.
The display takes things another step with its built-in USB-C hub. There’s a ton of connectivity driven through the USB-C connection, along with more juice than is typical at 90 watts of power delivery and KVM support. It’s an excellent solution for anyone who wants to connect a laptop without futzing with unplugging and plugging a keyboard, mouse, Ethernet, audio, and various peripherals.
Of course, it’s also an expensive monitor, even on sale at $920. I think it’s worth it given the image quality, sharpness, and large display size, but it also comes down to how much the hub capability matters to you. The outstanding warranty (see below) also adds some value.
Are there any alternatives? If you want to stick with a large 4K display and want the widest color, then the MSI Optix MPG321UR-QD is an option. It doesn’t offer the same contrast as the U3223QE, but it handles 100% of the AdobeRGB gamut and is even more color accurate. It costs a bit less as well.
If you want something smaller to fit into a tighter space, the 27-inch Dell P2720C tops our list of the best monitors thanks to its lower price and good image quality.
How long will it last? The U3223QE is built well enough and offers enough technology that it should serve you well for years. It also comes with an excellent three-year advance exchange warranty that promises to send you a new display first should yours fail.
Should I buy it? Yes, if you can afford it, especially if you can get it at its sale price. When you consider the image quality of this sharp, large display and couple that with the feature-packed USB-C hub, the U3223QE is well worth the investment.
Editors' Recommendations Dell’s new UltraSharp monitors have one major innovation The best 4K gaming monitors of 2023: ultrawides, high refresh rates, and more Dell’s new 6K UltraSharp refuses to sacrifice pixel density for size The best gaming monitors under $1,000: curved, ultrawide, 4K, and more The best 4K 120Hz gaming monitors for 2022 Dell Monitor Reviews Product Reviews Windows Reviews Computing Lenovo has just announced an avalanche of new monitors, and the range includes a really interesting model -- the Legion Y32p-30, a 4K gaming monitor with a 144Hz refresh rate. Made for gamers, this display will aim to combine stunning 4K visuals with a refresh rate suited for MOBAs and other fast-paced titles.
Alongside the beastly Legion, Lenovo is also introducing a range of commercial monitors, including various ThinkVision offerings that might be appreciated by remote and hybrid workers. Here's what we know about these new monitors.
Computing If Apple's recently launched Studio Display for the Mac isn't pro enough for your workflow, Dell has a more modular monitor solution that's designed around solid color reproduction, accuracy, and a competent audio experience for all your conference call needs.
It's not packaged neatly into one device like Apple's Studio Display, which comes with a built-in webcam, noise cancellation microphones, and a speaker system. Instead, Dell's latest UltraSharp series of 30-, 32-, and 27-inch monitors can be outfitted with Dell's new Slim Conferencing Soundbar and the company's existing UltraSharp 4K webcam to piece together a comparably premium videoconferencing experience.
Computing Dell has unveiled two new 4K monitors that use the latest IPS Black technology courtesy of LG Display. The 27-inch U2723QE and 32-inch U3223QE models are both 4K UltraSharp displays that, according to Dell, deliver 35 percent deeper blacks than IPS displays currently on the market.
These are the first monitors to use this display technology so far, and we don't know a ton about it just yet. Mini-LED or OLED monitors currently dominate the market when it comes to improved contrast and black levels, as seen in expensive options like the LG UltraFine Pro OLED or the ROG Swift PG32UQ mini-LED monitor. IPS Black is not necessarily an alternative to those, but could improve the image quality of traditional LED panels, which are much cheaper to produce.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
