Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? This monster Dell monitor does everything well, except one crucial thing By Mark Coppock Close $1,530.00 Expansive screen Solid build Tons of expansion Great dual-PC support Good colors Low brightness and contrast Image looks faded Expensive Dell’s family of UltraSharp monitors with USB-C hubs built in just keeps growing. When we reviewed the UltraSharp 43 4K and the UltraSharp 32 4K , both provided a good experience and tons of convenience in connecting peripherals and multiple PCs. But the UltraSharp 32 stood out due to its IPS Black panel technology, which delivered deeper contrast than the typical IPS display.
Specs A quality design that takes up a lot of desk space Lots of ports and dual-PC support Simple but effective controls Good quality, but less than expected Expensive and not entirely worth it Now there’s an even bigger model with the same lineage. Dell’s new UltraSharp 38 Curved USB-C monitor also uses IPS Black technology and wraps it in a widescreen curved monitor for those who prefer that format. But it doesn’t live up to the standard set by its most significant feature.
Dell reveals world’s first 40-inch, ultrawide, curved 5K monitor for CES Transform your desk space and save on a Dell UltraSharp curved monitor Specs Dell UltraSharp 38 Curved USB-C Monitor U3824DW Screen size 37.52 inches 21:9 Panel type IPS Resolution 3840 x 1600 Peak brightness 300 nits (typical) HDR None Contrast ratio 2,000:1 Response time 5ms Fast mode 8ms Normal mode Color gamut 100% sRGB Refresh rate 60Hz Curve Yes Speakers Yes, 2 x 9W Inputs 1x DisplayPort 1.4a 2x HDMI 2.2, 1x USB-C with 90 watts power delivery 1x USB-C data only USB ports 4x USB-A 3.2 Gen 2 1x USB-A 3.2 Gen 2 with B.C. 1.2 2x USB-C 3.2 Gen 2 downstream 1x 3.5mm audio line out 1x 2.5Gb RJ45 port Adjustments 26 degrees tilt, 60 degrees swivel, 120mm height, no pivot Dimensions (HxWxD) 22.20 x 35.21 x 9.89 inches Weight 29.25 pounds List price $1,530 A quality design that takes up a lot of desk space Mark Coppock / Digital Trends The UltraSharp 38 Curved looks a lot like Dell’s other UltraSharp models. There are minimal bezels up front, presenting an all-black appearance, and a silver plastic back and stand base. I’d prefer to see a metal stand in particular, but the UltraSharp 38 Curved felt plenty sturdy to me. It’s a very conservative aesthetic that won’t stand out in an office environment.
Mark Coppock / Digital Trends What does stand out is its size. It’s a massive widescreen display that takes up quick a bit of desktop space. You could set another monitor to either side, but that would take a big desk.
Putting the monitor together was incredibly simple. Attaching the stand and base to the monitor was trivial enough, and the entire process took me no more than 10 minutes. The stand delivers a fair amount of tilt, swivel, and height adjustments. Of course, there’s no pivot feature, which would make for a ludicrously tall portrait display even if Dell figured out a way to engineer it.
A hole in the stand allows for simple cable management, but as with the other UltraSharps we reviewed, it’s too far down. Positioning it higher up would have helped hide unsightly cables.
Ultimately, this is a monitor that you’ll feel good about displaying on your desk, as long as you have the room. You’ll feel like it will last forever, and it’ll fade into the background in the meantime.
Lots of ports and dual-PC support Mark Coppock / Digital Trends Dell didn’t toss “USB-C Hub” into the monitor’s name for nothing. The UltraSharp 38 Curved is jam-packed with ports, starting with the upstream USB-C port that provides 90 watts of power to a laptop. That’s a decent amount and can even keep a high-powered machine like the Dell XPS 15 running reasonably well.
Video support is comprehensive, with DisplayPort 1.4a, two HDMI 2.2, and one USB-C. Thanks to Display Stream Compression (DSC) via DisplayPort and High-Bandwidth Digital Content Protection (HDCP 2.2), you should have no problem streaming from your favorite services at the highest supported resolution. Unfortunately, there’s no DisplayPort out for daisy-chaining the UltraSharp 38 Curved with another monitor.
You can use the second USB-C upstream port for data only. There are also four USB-A 3.2 Gen 2 ports, a USB-A 3.2 Gen 2 port with B.C. 1.2 support, two downstream USB-C ports, an audio jack, and an Ethernet port. Plug in your laptop and you’re faced with a plethora of connectivity options. A set of ports are conveniently located on the bottom of the display for easier access.
Mark Coppock / Digital Trends The keyboard, video, and mouse (KVM) support allows you to connect two PCs. That’s particularly helpful if you’re using a desktop and a laptop, making it easy to switch from one to the other. The UltraSharp 38 Curved also supports video input from two PCs, with both Picture-in-Picture (PiP) and Picture-by-Picture (PbP) support.
Overall, the UltraSharp 38 Curved lives up to its name. It provides a highly useful and flexible USB-C hub that can handle a ton of peripherals.
Simple but effective controls Mark Coppock / Digital Trends There’s a joystick-controlled on-screen display (OSD), which is a little inconvenient given the joystick’s placement on the rear. The OSD is stark and simple, making it easy but not a lot of fun to control the monitor’s various features.
Mark Coppock / Digital Trends You get the usual color presets, such as Standard, Movie, Game, and the ability to set the color temperature, color space, and RGB mix. You can also toggle between Fast and Slow modes, and manage your PiP and PbP settings.
It’s easy enough to learn and use and doesn’t offer a lot of frills. But that’s fine in an OSD.
Good quality, but less than expected Mark Coppock / Digital Trends All the features in the world don’t matter much in a monitor if image quality isn’t up to snuff. The UltraSharp 38 Curved offers good image quality that doesn’t quite live up to its billing.
To begin with, it’s a very large display at roughly 38 inches in a widescreen 21:9 format. Its resolution sounds high at 3840 x 1600, but it’s the same low 110 PPI as the 34-inch Samsung Odyssey OLED G8 that runs at 3440 x 1400. That’s less pixel-dense than 4K resolution would be in a panel that’s smaller diagonally.
Widescreen displays can’t replace individual monitors for many people , which offer advantages not only in sharpness but also in flexibility and positioning.
Then, according to my SpyderX Elite colorimeter, the UltraSharp 38 Curved was a little disappointing in its image quality. Its colors were wide at 100% of sRGB, 91% of AdobeRGB, ad 96% of DCI-P3, and its color accuracy was decent with a DeltaE of 1.67 (less than 2.0 is great for productivity work and less demanding creators). It wasn’t very bright, though, at just 232 nits, and its contrast came in at 1,060:1 – well below the stated 2,000:1. We saw much better results with the Dell UltraSharp 32 4K that also features IPS Black technology. That display was much brighter at 447 nits and offered up an excellent 2,050:1 contrast ratio. Its colors were similar but it was also more accurate with a DeltaE of 0.92.
I’ll make a special note of the gamma, which came in at 1.9. That’s considerably lighter than the standard 2.2, and the display looked a bit washed out as a result. In fact, subjectively, I found the display to be merely OK. It wasn’t terribly bright, and while its blacks were fine for an IPS display, they didn’t live up to the promise of a technology dubbed IPS Black. I also missed the pixel density of my 27-inch 4K displays, two of which provide about the same display real estate as the UltraSharp 38 Curved.
I ran a calibration, but it made almost no difference. That means that my review unit was calibrated at the factory to its best quality, and there’s not much I could do to change it.
In terms of its specifications, the UltraSharp 38 Curved doesn’t stand out. Its refresh rate is locked at a pedestrian 60Hz, and its response time is unimpressive at 5ms in Fast mode and 8ms in Normal mode. That’s good enough if you’re not a competitive gamer, but it won’t keep up with the 1ms you can get from TN panels and even faster refresh rates from OLED.
Another disappointment is the lack of high dynamic range ( HDR ) support. That’s not a huge loss given the low brightness, but even so, it’s a feature that modern displays should possess.
Expensive and not entirely worth it The UltraSharp 38 Curved is priced at $1,530 dollars. That’s a lot of money for a monitor, and I’m not sure this one provides the image quality to justify it. Consider that Dell charges just $1,100 for the Alienware 34 Curved QD-OLED gaming monitor, which has a spectacular picture, ultra-high 165Hz refresh rate, G-Sync support, and a 0.1 ms gray-to-gray response time.
Certainly, the UltraSharp 38 Curved is a convenient monitor thanks to the USB-C hub and dual-PC support. It’s also well-built. But I expected more brightness and contrast and didn’t get it, and that’s a bit disappointing.
Editors' Recommendations Dell’s new UltraSharp monitors have one major innovation CES 2020: Dell’s new 4K USB-C monitors look absolutely stunning Dell Monitor Reviews Product Reviews Windows Reviews Computing Lenovo is probably one of the best-known laptop makers, especially since they have an incredibly wide variety of them to choose from. That also means they have an excellent selection of gaming laptops, so you can hone in on something that fits your budget. That's especially the case with the ongoing early Black Friday deals that are seeing laptops being cut down in price across the board. That said, Lenovo's selection of gaming laptops is too wide for us to include all their active deals here, so we've selected some of our favorites for both AMD and Intel CPUs. Also, if you're not sure of where to start, you should check out our list of best Lenovo laptops for some good options.
Best Lenovo Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals (AMD) Lenovo has a wider selection of AMD gaming laptops, which is great if you want to go with something AMD-powered. Unfortunately, there aren't any good deals on Lenovo laptops with both an AMD CPU and GPU, but the selection below is wide enough to pick something that fits your needs a bit better. And, if you want something with an RTX 4090 on a budget, then the AMD version is probably the cheapest for Lenovo.
Computing Printers are complicated machines featuring a mix of plastics, metals, electronics, and components, some of which are potentially flagged as hazardous waste. In 2023, it's more important than ever to be kind to the planet, and there are several environmentally safe ways to dispose of a printer.
Even the best printers in the world can reach the end of their life after several years if ink or toner is no longer available. A well-loved printer can suffer from accumulated wear and tear or damage from a catastrophic power surge that's too expensive to repair.
Computing It's Black Friday, which means it is time to give expensive tech products and fun, but expensive, toys a second look. The right Black Friday deals are there to take these categories of products down in price. Where these categories of expensive tech and cool toys collide is the Meta Quest 2, a VR headset, and sure enough, it has a good sale going on over at Amazon right now. Normally $300, its price has dropped by $51 down to just $249, one of the best VR headset Black Friday deals we've seen. The really good news? This deal is here now, so you don't have to wait to buy it like you will with the rest of your post Thanksgiving shopping. In fact, if you tap the button below and buy now, and with a little shipping luck, you might have it by Thanksgiving to play with your family.
Why you should buy the Meta Quest 2 The Meta Quest 2, which dominated Steam last year, is a VR headset that gives a full 360 field of view, allows you to experience 3D positional audio, and has over 500 compatible titles between gaming, fitness, and other experiences. If you're a Twitch viewer, you may recognize it from streamers playing Meta Quest 2 games like Beat Saber or the somewhat ironically humorous Among Us VR. It refreshes at 120Hz and gives each eye a view of 1832 x 1920p.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
