Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Dell UltraSharp 43 4K USB-C Hub Monitor review: massive is the word By Mark Coppock Close $1,310.00 Massive display size Impressive set of features Truly useful USB-C hub Excellent KVM and single-PC support Good productivity image quality Massive size requires careful placement Limited physical adjustments No HDR support Dell has been making some nice high-end displays with large screen sizes, high resolutions, and useful built-in USB-C hubs. The UltraSharp 32 4K USB-C Hub Monitor was the last one we reviewed, and we liked it quite a bit. It missed making our list of best monitors , but not by much. Now, Dell has gone massive with the UltraSharp 43 4K USB-C Hub U4323QE Monitor, which isn’t just huge with its 42.5-inch panel, but it also throws in some pretty impressive features.
Specs Did I mention it’s massive? Lots of features Competent image quality Large and lots of ports, but image quality isn’t the best Yes, it’s a massive display, and I’m using that word again on purpose. Setting it next to a Dell XPS 15 makes the laptop look tiny by comparison. The monitor needs a lot of desk space, especially if it’s fitting it into a multimonitor setup, and it’s not for everybody. But if you have the need for a very large display with a lot of functionality, then the UltraSharp 43 has a lot going for it — along with one glaring omission (no HDR ) and a premium price of $1,310.
Ditch your 4K monitor for one of the best 5K displays you can buy Asus’ 4K, 32-inch mini-LED gaming monitor might hit the perfect sweet spot LG’s latest 4K monitor wants to be your smart home hub Specs Dell UltraSharp 43 4K USB-C Hub Monitor U4323QE Screen size 42.5-inch 16:9 Panel type IPS Resolution 3,840 x 2,160 Peak brightness 350 nits (typical) HDR None Contrast ratio 1,000:1 Response time 5ms Fast mode 8ms Normal mode Color gamut 85% sRGB Refresh rate 60Hz Curve No Speakers Yes, 2 x 8W Inputs 2x DisplayPort 1.4a, 2x HDMI 2.1, 1x USB-C with 90 watts power delivery USB ports 3x USB-C 3.2 Gen 2 upstream 3x USB-A 3.2 Gen 2 1x USB-A 3.2 Gen 2 with B.C. 1.2 1x USB-C 3.2 Gen 2 downstream 1x 3.5mm audio line out 1x RJ45 port 1x DisplayPort out Adjustments 15 degrees tilt, 40 degrees swivel, 60mm height, no pivot Dimensions (HxWxD) 25.80 x 38.08 x 10.09 inches Weight 40.90 pounds List price $1,310 Did I mention it’s massive? Mark Coppock/Digital Trends Before you even consider the technical merits of this monitor, ask yourself where you’re going to put such a monstrosity. I live in a pretty small house, and my home office isn’t huge, so finding enough room to test the UltraSharp 43 required moving stuff around. If it’s going to sit next to another display, then your planning is even more complicated.
Not only will you need to adjust your physical space, but you’ll also want to fine-tune your display settings — scaling in particular. Set it too high, and everything is way too large; set it too low, and everything looks way too tiny on such a large display. The display defaults to 300%, which makes everything comically large. I found 175% to be a good compromise.
Visually, the UltraSharp 43 isn’t much different from its smaller siblings. It has small black bezels that don’t stand out, and its silver chassis is nondescript. Its stand is similar to the UltraSharp 32, right down to the same hole for cable management, but it’s less adjustable than its smaller sibling, further complicating usage and placement. Vertical adjustment isn’t as wide, for example, and unsurprisingly, it doesn’t pivot to portrait mode. These differences aren’t egregious, but they warrant another warning to place it carefully.
Mark Coppock/Digital Trends Between its solid metal stand, glass screen, and electronics, the UltraSharp 43 weighs in at more than 40 pounds. That means that unboxing requires some heavy lifting, but it’s simple enough to extract the display and stand components and put everything together. And the assembled product feels quite durable and robust.
Lots of features Mark Coppock/Digital Trends This display’s USB-C Hub portion is one of the best that you’ll find on a display today. There are a ton of ports available, both upstream and downstream, and you can (and should) use the built-in hub in lieu of a standalone unit (unless you’re looking for Thunderbolt 4 support). The integrated KVM switch conveniently supports up to four PCs using a single keyboard and mouse. Connecting via USB-C provides up to 90 watts of power to the laptop, which is more than many displays (and hubs) provide. You’ll still want to use the proprietary power adapter for particularly powerful laptops , but most thin-and-light machines will get plenty of juice.
You can connect via USB-C, DisplayPort 1.4, and HDMI 2.1 , with multiple ports available for the latter two. It offers a total of three USB-C ports for upstream data, and three USB-A ports for legacy devices, with a mix of power delivery per port. A 3.5mm audio jack line-out and an RJ45 Ethernet port round out the connectivity options. Note that some of the technology listed for the UltraSharp 32, such as Display Stream Compression (DSC) for lossless compression and High-Bandwidth Digital Content Protection (HDCP 2.2), aren’t specifically listed in the specs for the UltraSharp 43. It turns out that DSC isn’t supported while HDCP 2.2 is — meaning that you’ll be able to stream protected content like Netflix 4K video.
Dell also implemented Internal Multi-Stream (iMST), which essentially splits the monitor into what appears to the PC to be four independent physical displays. A single PC can drive all four without requiring external software or a DisplayPort splitter. Interestingly, this feature is what Dell lists in the “daisy chain availability” specification, rather than the ability to physically daisy chain with other displays.
Mark Coppock/Digital Trends The on-screen display (OSD) is easy to navigate using the joystick on the back of the display, and that, along with the power button, are the only controls. The OSD itself is simple to use and controls every important setting. You’ll get the usual color presets, and you can change the color temperature, set up the color space, and define a custom RGB mix. The refresh rate can be easily changed from its 8ms Normal setting to its 5ms Fast setting, and picture-in-picture modes are fully configurable.
One setting you won’t find is HDR. That’s a disappointing limitation in such a large display, which would otherwise be excellent for media consumption.
Finally, Dell built in two 8-watt speakers, and they sound fine. They won’t replace a really good pair of PC speakers, or even the speaker on the latest MacBook Pros, but they’re good enough that you won’t feel the need to run out and buy something to replace them.
Competent image quality Mark Coppock/Digital Trends Subjectively, the UltraSharp 43’s image looks good out of the box, but it doesn’t stand out. It lacks the deep contrast of the UltraSharp 32 U3223QE, which sports LG’s IPS Black technology, but it’s not so pronounced that blacks come across as gray. Colors were fine and not oversaturated, but they didn’t pop. Brightness was decent, and there was minimal pixelation given the combination of a 4K resolution and a huge 43-inch panel. I could comfortably use this display for my writing work.
According to my colorimeter, this is a fairly average premium display. Before calibration, brightness came in at 342 nits, very close to the 350-nit specification, and contrast was 980:1, again close to the 1,000:1 specification (which is also our baseline for premium displays). Colors were wide enough for productivity work at 98% of sRGB and 75% of AdobeRGB, with a color accuracy of DeltaE 2.41. Creators won’t be pleased with either the color width or the accuracy, though. Gamma was just a tad dark at 2.3. I calibrated the display using my SpyderX Elite colorimeter, and very little changed. Brightness dropped to 329 nits and contrast went down slightly to 940:1, but accuracy improved to 1.54.
That means that Dell calibrated the monitor pretty well at the factory, with only color accuracy benefitting from a manual calibration after the fact. Of course, I didn’t test HDR because it’s not supported. Also, the display is limited to 60Hz, which is unsurprising. If you want higher refresh rates to go with a 4K resolution, you’ll likely have to drop down in size to something like the Gigabyte M32U that goes up to 144Hz.
Overall, image quality is good but not great. Productivity workers will be pleased, but creators and media consumers won’t love it.
Large and lots of ports, but image quality isn’t the best If you’re looking for a huge display, are willing to pay over $1,300 for it, and don’t care about wide and accurate colors or HDR support, then the UltraSharp 43 has a lot going for it. And there are likely plenty of people who need just that, so I expect the monitor to have fairly widespread appeal.
Personally, I find the lack of HDR support to be the most disappointing aspect, and it’s a hard display to place in smaller spaces. So be sure you know what you’re getting when you pull out your credit card.
Editors' Recommendations Dell’s new UltraSharp monitors have one major innovation The best 4K gaming monitors of 2023: ultrawides, high refresh rates, and more Dell’s new 6K UltraSharp refuses to sacrifice pixel density for size The best gaming monitors under $1,000: curved, ultrawide, 4K, and more The best 4K 120Hz gaming monitors for 2022 Dell Monitor Reviews Product Reviews Windows Reviews Computing Lenovo has just announced an avalanche of new monitors, and the range includes a really interesting model -- the Legion Y32p-30, a 4K gaming monitor with a 144Hz refresh rate. Made for gamers, this display will aim to combine stunning 4K visuals with a refresh rate suited for MOBAs and other fast-paced titles.
Alongside the beastly Legion, Lenovo is also introducing a range of commercial monitors, including various ThinkVision offerings that might be appreciated by remote and hybrid workers. Here's what we know about these new monitors.
Computing At CES 2022, Acer announced an expansion to its gaming monitor lineup, with one model featuring a screen big enough to serve as a TV replacement.
The company unveiled three new additions to its Predator series of gaming monitors, the Predator CG48, the Predator X32, and the X32 FP. The X32 received a CES Innovation Award in the “Computer Peripherals & Accessories” category, while the FP variant is claimed to be the “fastest 4K monitor currently available," though it may have already been surpassed by another gaming monitor announced at CES.
Predator CG48 Computing While most PC displays are being engineered with ultra-thin bezels, Dell's latest 4K UltraSharp monitor comes with the opposite: A large forehead.
What's all the extra space in the new UltraSharp U3223QZ's forehead for? Well, Dell says it's used to house all the tech you'll need to conduct a clear video conferencing call, including a high resolution webcam, noise canceling microphones, and capable audio speakers.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
