Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Reviews Lenovo G27c-10 Review: Fulfilling high-FPS dreams for $200 By Niels Broekhuijsen Close $219.00 Affordable 165 Hz: Smooth gaming Remarkably accurate colors Immersive size and curve Bare minimum IO Low-maximum brightness Limited color gamut No included DisplayPort cable If you’re shopping for a fast gaming monitor on a budget, there’s a good chance you have, or will, run into the Lenovo G27c-10 in your endeavors. It’s a 27-inch Full-HD gaming monitor with a VA panel and a 165 Hz refresh rate, which is a promising start to a great gaming experience.
Design Ports and controls Image quality Gaming performance Our take The display’s biggest selling point is its price, of course, which comes in at $219 MSRP, but often dips under $200, which for a 165 Hz monitor is absolutely stellar value.
So, how does it perform in practice? Is the panel able to keep up with the 165 Hz refresh rate? Is image quality any good? And will it land on our best monitors list ? Let’s find out.
Design Image used with permission by copyright holder As you unpack the G27c-10, you’ll find that it’s an extremely simple monitor. The stand slots in with a hand-twisted screw at the bottom, and the monitor simply drops onto it. The latching mechanism takes care of the rest. The stand comes with height and tilt adjustments – and that’s it – but chances are you weren’t planning on using this in portrait mode anyway. A cutout to route cables through would have been appreciated, but isn’t a big deal.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Then there’s the curve. Lenovo doesn’t actually quote a curve radius, but we estimate that it’s in the realm of about 1500R. It’s certainly not as aggressive as the 1000R curve on Samsung’s G7 monitors , nor is it as subtle as LG’s curved displays. Overall, it strikes a nice balance for its panel size and is likely to please most gamers. The bezels are slim, which is appreciated at this price, though we would have preferred not to see the pointer and power graphics for the on-screen display (OSD) on the lower bezel, as this doesn’t add any value and disrupts an otherwise clean design.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Other than that, the G27c-10’s design doesn’t offer a lot to comment on – it’s about as clean as can be.
Ports and controls Image used with permission by copyright holder Like the general design of the monitor, Lenovo hasn’t gone to great lengths to provide you with ample connectivity – the G27c-10 comes with one HDMI connector, one DisplayPort connector (which you’ll have to use if you want G-Sync on an Nvidia GPU), and an audio-out jack, in case you decide to route your headphones through your monitor.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The OSD of the G27c-10 is simple, but offers everything you need in a budget gaming monitor. It is operated through a directional toggle at the lower-right end of the monitor, and is split in four main sections: Image settings, color settings, inputs, and system settings. Inside, you’ll find basic color controls, color temperature adjustments, brightness and contrast, FreeSync on/off, overdrive settings, game mode, and a dark-boost setting to brighten dark areas for a competitive advantage in games.
Image quality For the G27c-10, Lenovo opted to use a VA panel with 1920 x 1080 pixel resolution, which isn’t particularly high for a 27-inch panel. This means you won’t get a sharp image that’s good for photo editing, though it’s sufficient for daily use. Besides, in-game, you’ll care more about the high 165 Hz refresh rate (consider that most “normal” monitors refresh at 60 Hz), and the lower resolution means your GPU will be able to pump out more frames and actually make use of that high refresh rate.
Image used with permission by copyright holder We let our Spyder X Elite colorimeter loose on the G27c-10, and it reported that the panel covers 96 percent of the sRGB space and 75 percent of AdobeRGB. This isn’t impressive and certainly won’t please photo editors, but it’s sufficient, and if you’re shopping for a gaming monitor at $200, chances are you won’t mind that this isn’t a wide-gamut panel. If you are after a wide color space, you’re better off looking at something like the Acer ConceptD CM2.
The G27c-10 is remarkably color-accurate with a Delta E of just 1.32.
However, when we tested the panel for color accuracy, the G27c-10 pushed out a surprising Delta E (difference from real) of 1.32. Any Delta E under 2 is considered good enough for photo editors, so although the G27c-10 doesn’t cover a big color space, the colors that it does display will look accurate.
The G27c-10 doesn’t pack retina-searing brightness, which might be a problem depending on your usage. We recorded a maximum figure of 328 nits, which is below the 350 nits spec quoted by Lenovo, and subjectively, the display wasn’t very bright. To get a good experience, you’ll want to ensure you game at maximum brightness in a relatively dim room. We wouldn’t want to use this monitor directly opposite a window, for example.
VA panels are known for their impressive ability to black out dark colors, producing inky blacks rather than the dark shade of gray that IPS panels produce. Unfortunately, the G27C-10’s best contrast ratio was around 2350:1, which is below the expected 3000:1. Still, most VA panels never get even close to the 3000:1 spec, so in that respect, 2350:1 is a reasonable performance, and takes you most of the way toward inky blacks. It’s also better than you’d expect from a TN or IPS panel, particularly at this price.
There was little to gain from calibrating the G27c-10 — it’s as good as it gets from the factory.
We calibrated the display using the Spyder X Elite, but only lost more contrast performance, didn’t gain any color gamut, and actually made color accuracy worse, so it’s safe to say calibrating the G27c-10 is a challenge. However, its out-of-box color accuracy is solid, so this is less of an issue.
Gaming performance As you would expect from a 165Hz monitor, games will look silky-smooth if you have a GPU powerful enough to hit high frame rates. You’ll want to dive into Windows settings and actually configure the panel to run at 165 Hz (Windows defaults to 60 Hz on new monitors). Once you’ve done that, and double-checked in the monitor’s OSD and Nvidia’s GeForce Control Panel (or AMD’s Radeon Control Center) that G-Sync or FreeSync is running as it should, your games will run smoothly without stuttering or tearing. One thing to note is that to use G-Sync on an Nvidia card, you’ll need a DisplayPort cable, and it isn’t included in the box.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Being a VA panel, it does suffer from slight trailing when bright objects move over a dark screen (like a mouse on a black wallpaper), but for the price of the display, the blur is perfectly acceptable. If you want near-zero levels of VA smearing on a gaming monitor, you’re going to have to up your budget significantly for something like Samsung’s 27-inch G7 , but that monitor costs a mighty $650, which just isn’t worth it to most buyers.
It’s also worth noting that the display doesn’t support HDR , which paired with the relatively low brightness and limited color space, means it won’t blow you away with its picture quality.
Once you stop nitpicking, the G27c-10 offers a highly enjoyable gaming experience Once you stop nitpicking over the little imperfections, though, the Lenovo G27c-10 is a good monitor. The curve is great at immersing you, and at 27 inches, it’s the right size for most desks.
A great GPU to pair with this monitor would be Nvidia’s GTX 1650 Super or AMD’s RX 5500XT, which although not flagships, will push most games into high-frame rate territories on this monitor without breaking the bank. You don’t need Nvidia’s latest RTX 3000-series card for this monitor, unless you’re planning to play a game like Metro Exodus with all ray-tracing features at their maximum.
Our take Image used with permission by copyright holder Lenovo’s G27c-10 is by no means a perfect monitor, but it comes in at just $220, with pricing often dipping below the $200 mark, which is an incredible price for a 165Hz curved gaming display. It’s not small either, with a 27-inch diagonal, and it will work wonders for entry-level high-FPS (frames-per-second) gaming setups.
Its shortcomings are limited I/O ports, a modest color gamut, a bit of VA smearing in motion, and a less-than-sharp image, but these problems are easily excused by the monitor’s very affordable price.
Are there any alternatives? Absolutely, but you’ll have to spend a little more to get them. Gigabyte’s G27FC has similar specs but costs $50 more, and the same goes for the MSI Optix MAG271VCR, which costs $260, but gives you a wider color gamut and some RGB luxuries. The Lenovo is very competitive on price with other budget gaming monitors.
How long will it last? Lenovo’s G27c-10 should last as long as any monitor does nowadays: A minimum of 5 years. Lenovo covers it with a one-year warranty. That being said, other than its fast refresh rate, it does not impress with its tech, so don’t be surprised if you’re itching for an upgrade about three years down the line.
Should I buy it? Yes. If all you’re looking for is a fast gaming monitor on a budget and you have no needs beyond gaming, the G27c-10 won’t disappoint.
Gaming Monitor Reviews Product Reviews Computing Printers are complicated machines featuring a mix of plastics, metals, electronics, and components, some of which are potentially flagged as hazardous waste. In 2023, it's more important than ever to be kind to the planet, and there are several environmentally safe ways to dispose of a printer.
Even the best printers in the world can reach the end of their life after several years if ink or toner is no longer available. A well-loved printer can suffer from accumulated wear and tear or damage from a catastrophic power surge that's too expensive to repair.
Computing It's Black Friday, which means it is time to give expensive tech products and fun, but expensive, toys a second look. The right Black Friday deals are there to take these categories of products down in price. Where these categories of expensive tech and cool toys collide is the Meta Quest 2, a VR headset, and sure enough, it has a good sale going on over at Amazon right now. Normally $300, its price has dropped by $51 down to just $249, one of the best VR headset Black Friday deals we've seen. The really good news? This deal is here now, so you don't have to wait to buy it like you will with the rest of your post Thanksgiving shopping. In fact, if you tap the button below and buy now, and with a little shipping luck, you might have it by Thanksgiving to play with your family.
Why you should buy the Meta Quest 2 The Meta Quest 2, which dominated Steam last year, is a VR headset that gives a full 360 field of view, allows you to experience 3D positional audio, and has over 500 compatible titles between gaming, fitness, and other experiences. If you're a Twitch viewer, you may recognize it from streamers playing Meta Quest 2 games like Beat Saber or the somewhat ironically humorous Among Us VR. It refreshes at 120Hz and gives each eye a view of 1832 x 1920p.
Computing The G-series of gaming laptops from Dell represent a balance between performance and affordability. While it is positioned below the Alienware gaming laptop lineup, it manages to incorporate some of the standout features from its more expensive counterpart. It takes inspiration from its pricier cousin in terms of design and build quality, and also offers commendable thermal and graphics performance.
The company officially unveiled the 2023 G-series back in January at CES, and if you have decided to purchase a new Dell gaming laptop, then we recommend going for the latest G16 7630.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
