Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Reviews Lenovo Legion Y27q-20 monitor review: 1440p gaming done right By Luke Larsen Close $460.00 Simple, lightweight design 165Hz refresh rate Excellent ergonomics Decent value for 1440p 1ms response time No speakers Poor contrast Frustrating controls It’s an ideal time to upgrade to higher-resolution gaming, but you’ll probably need a new gaming monitor.
 That goes double if you upgraded your PC’s graphics card , whether that’s to a lower-end RTX 20-series or one of the new 30-series cards.
Design Ports Buttons and menus Game performance Image quality Our take Offering both 1440p resolution and a 165Hz refresh rate, the Lenovo Legion Y27q-20 is an upgrade in every way from your old 1080p monitor. It’s quickly becoming a crowded space, though, and $430 isn’t the cheapest price out there. Does the Legion Y27q-20 have the image quality and gaming performance to back it up? Lenovo unleashes an avalanche of monitors, including a 4K 144Hz beast The 5 best 27-inch gaming monitors for 2022 Lenovo tweaks design and powers up its excellent Legion 5 Pro gaming laptops Design Image used with permission by copyright holder The Legion Y27q-20 may be nothing fancy, but it’s not without some embellishments, including Lenovo’s signature circular cheese grater design across the back of the cabinet. Strangely enough, it is not dissimilar to Apple’s Mac Pro or the Pro Display XDR.
 For a gaming peripheral, it’s rather elegant, and not as bulky as some Acer Predator or Asus ROG monitors.
But don’t get too excited. Like most gaming monitors , the Legion Y27q is mostly made out of plastic and includes a sizable bottom bezel. The HP Omen 27 gaming monitor has more class in my book, but the Legion undercuts that monitor’s price significantly. The stand, fortunately, is made out of metal, which provides plenty of stability.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The Legion Y27q’s screen, base, and stand are packed individually, but I had them put together within seconds thanks to the monitor’s simple VESA mount. The whole package weighs just 14.7 pounds, which further eases the strain of setup. The Acer Nitro XZ272U is lighter at just 11 pounds, but the Y27q isn’t far off.
After setting it up, I was pleased to discover how adjustable the Legion Y27q is. With tilt, rotate, height, and swivel adjustment, you’re bound to find something comfortable for your needs. Rotating from landscape to portrait is a noteworthy addition that gaming monitors like the Predator XB273U and Dell S-series monitors lack.
Ports Image used with permission by copyright holder Ports are located in the back, facing down. You won’t find any surprises here — just a DisplayPort 1.2 and HDMI 1.4. These are older port standards, but for a 1440p gaming monitor, they’re all you need.
The Legion Y27q-20 even includes some extra USB connectivity to sweeten the deal. Around back, you’ll find a USB-B 3.1 upstream port and a USB-A port, while two USB-A ports flank the side. You’ll also find a headphone/mic jack here. These are nice additions to what is otherwise a fairly basic gaming monitor and transforming into a bit more of a USB hub.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The monitor’s power is supplied through Lenovo’s “Trim Yellow” rectangular power connector, alongside a relatively small external power brick.
Unfortunately, Lenovo didn’t think the Legion Y27q-20 needed speakers. Lenovo sells a separate model with a cone-shaped speaker built into the base, but here it’s missing. That’s a shame. I’m still of the opinion that most monitors should include speakers, even if they aren’t the greatest in the world. Yes, most people will use headphones or external speakers, but for the rare time that you’ll want them, they’re absent.
Buttons and menus Image used with permission by copyright holder Access to the on-screen menu is through the six buttons just below the panel. There are no fancy joysticks or buttons to reach for behind the screen.
Once in the menu, you’ll be able to adjust settings like brightness and contrast, as well as toggle between different game settings and color profiles. Lenovo includes genre-specific profiles for first-person shooters, strategy games, and more. You’ll also find the ability to switch to “Extreme” mode, which moves you from three milliseconds down to one.
Navigating the menu with the buttons is a frustrating experience.
The problem? Navigating the menu with the buttons is a frustrating experience.
First off, the button furthest to the right is the power button, but it feels identical to the other buttons. Accidentally powering off your monitor in the middle of a game is no fun. It can happen when reaching for brightness controls while playing in a dimmer environment, especially since the monitor lacks adaptive brightness.
The symbiology used on the buttons and in the menu is also confusing. What looks like a back button is actually a select button, which is disorienting when navigating through the menu. It would have been a good idea to do some extra user testing with these.
Game performance Image used with permission by copyright holder The Legion Y27q-20 uses a 27-inch panel with a resolution of 2560 x 1440. Playing games natively at 1440p is gorgeous. It’s not quite 4K , but it’s also not nearly as demanding if you’ve got more of a mid-range system. The RTX 2070 Super I tested it with pushed games like Battlefield V and Fortnite well over 100 frames per second, even at max settings.
Thanks to the 165Hz refresh rate, gameplay feels incredibly smooth. Sure, there are 240Hz, 300Hz, or even 360Hz monitors out there — but unless you’re aiming to be a professional gamer (and perhaps even then), 165Hz should do just fine. That’s especially true if you’re playing in 1440p.
True G-Sync, this is not.
Nvidia G-Sync stickers are plastered all over the Legion Y27q-20, but it’s not a true implementation. Rather than a physical G-Sync module, it’s certified through a solution Nvidia calls “G-Sync Compatible.
” Essentially, that means it’s a VRR (variable refresh rate) monitor that Nvidia has validated for flickering, ghosting, and tearing. True G-Sync, this is not.
And yet, the gaming experience on the Legion Y27q-20 is super smooth. Once you hop into the Nvidia control panel and change the refresh rate to 165Hz, you’ll immediate notice the smooth animations, even of your cursor as you move it across the screen. Next, you’ll want to switch on the “Extreme” setting to get to the advertised one millisecond response time.
Response time is about how fast the pixels on your monitor can change colors. There’s no agreed-upon measure for response time, so the difference between 1ms and 3ms can be fickle depending on the monitor. On the Legion Y27q-20, though, you can see the subtle difference in responsiveness when toggling between the two settings.
Image quality Image used with permission by copyright holder Thanks to its IPS (in-plane switching) display, the Legion Y27q-20 can be used for non-gaming activities too. It’s quite bright, with a maximum of 415 nits, and the color saturation isn’t bad either. At 99% of sRGB and 77% of AdobeRGB, the Legion Y27q is as colorful a screen as you can expect from a gaming monitor.
Many budget or midtier gaming monitors opt for VA (vertical alignment) or TN (twisted nematic) panels. These screens tend to have poorer viewing angles, so I’m happy to see Lenovo opt for IPS.
It wasn’t perfect, though. The contrast was low at just 650:1, hurt by the shallow black levels. The images look a bit washed out next to other displays. By comparison, the Acer Nitro XZ27 measured at 1,060:1, resulting in much richer images and colors.
The Legion Y27q is a bit hit-or-miss in terms of image quality.
The second problem was color accuracy. At an average Delta-E of 3.07, the color accuracy is surprisingly poor for 202o. The Nitro XZ272U, for example, averages 1.23. Again, that won’t be the biggest concern for gamers, but there’s no reason a $430 monitor should be this poorly calibrated.
I tried calibrating the screen myself to see if I could improve some of these numbers with my Spyder5Elite. Gamma was corrected from 2.1 to 2.2, and color accuracy dropped to 1.85. Both are positive lifts in image quality, showing that this panel could have used some additional factory calibration. Contrast and black levels weren’t helped, though.
The Legion Y27q is a bit hit-or-miss in terms of image quality. It’s not a screen you’ll want to do precise color correcting on, nor watch movies on all the time.
Our take With RTX 30-series graphics just around the corner, gaming monitors like the Lenovo Legion Y27q-20 are about to become important. There are a couple of cheaper options that get to higher resolutions and refresh rates, but the Legion Y27q-20’s suave good looks and low response time make it a solid option for a monitor upgrade.
Are there any alternatives? The Acer Nitro XZ272U costs just $330, despite also being a 165Hz 27-inch gaming monitor. It uses a VA panel, and also has a 4ms response time instead of 1ms. It even has a curved screen.
Another option to consider is the Asus TUF VG27 gaming monitor, coming in at $479. Lastly, the $400 Dell S2719DGF is another good option. It has a 1ms response time and a 155Hz refresh rate, but uses a cheaper TP panel.
How long will it last? The Lenovo Legion Y27q-20 should last around five years. The standard warranty lasts three years, but the 165Hz refresh rate and 1440p resolution will set you up for PC gaming for longer than that.
Should you buy it? Yes. The Legion Y27q-20 ably balances features, design, and performance — all in an affordable package.
Editors' Recommendations Lenovo’s Legion Glasses promise big-screen gaming wherever you are Lenovo Legion Slim 7i hands-on review: Portable powerhouse Lenovo’s new Legion gaming mice are simple yet affordable Nvidia claims 1440p 360Hz monitors as new standard for esports The 5 best 1440p gaming monitors Lenovo Monitor Reviews Product Reviews Windows Reviews Computing HP has just announced the release of Omen 27c QHD, a brand new curved gaming monitor. Featuring a wide range of colors, high brightness, a blue light filter, and a 240Hz refresh rate, this display was made with long gaming sessions in mind.
"It's unrivaled, so you can be too. We crafted this monitor for the most passionate players who are fully dedicated to exploring every corner of their game," said Eric Galyean, NPI lead for HP.
Computing If you've been looking to upgrade your gaming rig and haven't been able to score a new graphics card due to the global semiconductor shortage, you may want to consider a gaming laptop as an alternative.
Lenovo's refreshed Legion gaming laptops are packed with the latest silicon, including Intel's new 11th Gen processors and Nvidia's GeForce RTX 3000 mobile GPUs. The laptops also support Nvidia's new RTX 3050 and RTX 3050 Ti mobile GPUs, making them an affordable option for budget mobile gamers who want to experience the company's latest Ampere graphics architecture.
Computing When it comes to gaming monitors, anything from 144Hz and up is generally considered fast. But what if you're in the very competitive gaming space and need even higher frame rates so that you can respond faster? For those folks, 360Hz displays may be the answer, and as of today, there's a new kid on the block with such an option: Lenovo.
The company is coming out with the Legion Y25g-30, a 24.5-inch IPS monitor with, you guessed it, a 360Hz refresh rate. Much like Asus' PG259QNR, it comes with 99% sRGB coverage, a 1080p resolution, 1000:1 contrast ratio, 400 nits brightness, and Nvidia Reflex technology. In fact, chances are it's the same panel, just with a different jacket around it.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
