Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The Lenovo Legion Y32p-30 is (almost) the perfect 4K gaming monitor By Jacob Roach Close $750.00 Fantastic color accuracy Sturdy stand with multiple adjustment points Built-in speakers and KVM switch Great for desktop use Poor HDR A little too expensive I didn’t expect much from the Lenovo Legion Y32p-30, especially given its place in the market as a specs-over-design gaming monitor.
 It doesn’t help that a new crop of OLED displays has started challenging pricing and features, offering impressive HDR and better motion clarity for a lower price than we’ve seen before.
But Lenovo includes a lot to chew on. The Legion Y32p-30 offers a perfect balance of features and impressive image quality. The price is just, unfortunately, a little too high at $750.
10 best gaming monitors of 2023: tested and reviewed The best 4K gaming monitors of 2023: ultrawides, high refresh rates, and more We’re finally getting a 4K OLED gaming monitor, and it’s coming soon The base of the monitor, large as it is, features angled cutouts for an attractive look, and there’s a soft RGB underglow (which, for the record, you can turn off). Unlike a display like LG UltraGear OLED 45 , it’s hard to tell where these lights are coming from. Lenovo uses a dark diffusion layer, making the glow look like it’s just showing up on your desk, not illuminating out of the bottom of the monitor.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Combined with solid adjustment and a near-borderless screen, the Lenovo Y32p-30 looks fantastic. It doesn’t sacrifice features, either. You get a built-in KVM switch, so you can swap your peripherals between several inputs, as well as two 5-watt speakers. Included speakers are tough to find in monitors, and although these ones don’t sound great, they do the job of producing sound if you want to take off your gaming headset. And when do you, the Y32p-30 includes a pull-out headset stand.
In addition, Lenovo includes an ambient light sensor for its Smart Light feature, which dynamically adjusts the brightness based on the light of your room. There’s also a USB-C port with 75 watts of power delivery, allowing you to hook up a laptop with a single cable (even if you can’t connect a proper gaming laptop ).
Lenovo Y32p-30 Screen size 31.5 inches Panel type IPS Resolution 3840 x 2160 Peak brightness 400 nits HDR DisplayHDR 400 Local dimming 16 edge-lit Contrast ratio 1,000:1 Response time 0.02ms (MPRT), 2ms (GtG) Refresh rate 144Hz Curve N/A Speakers 2x 5W Inputs 1x DisplayPort 1.4, 2x HDMI 2.1 Ports 2x USB 3.2 Gen 1 Type-A, 1x USB-C (75W power delivery), 3.5mm headphone List price $750 The USB-C port joins two USB-A ports with USB 3.2 Gen 1 speeds (5 Gbps). I would’ve liked to see a couple more like the Alienware 34 QD-OLED includes, especially with the KVM switch, but you still have enough to hook up your keyboard and mouse and route them to different inputs. You also get two HDMI 2.1 connections, offering a full 4K at 120Hz if you hook up a console, and a display DisplayPort 1.4 connection.
That DisplayPort connection is interesting, too. It carries VESA’s Adaptive Sync standard, which is the group behind the DisplayPort connection. The monitor is certified with AMD FreeSync Premium, but the Y32p-30 joins a small but growing list of displays that are certified to support a variable refresh rate regardless of the GPU brand you have.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Perhaps more important is what Adaptive Sync certifies for overshoot. The Lenovo Y32p-30 apparently comes with a Moving Picture Response Time (MPRT) of 0.2 milliseconds. The gray-to-gray response time is actually 7ms, with the monitor using various overdrive levels to get it lower. The Adaptive-Sync standard accounts for excessive overshoot, as well as response time (you can see a full list of criteria on the AdaptiveSync website ).
I tested each level and only noticed a small amount of overshoot on the highest overdrive level. Nothing to be worried about. Still, it’s nice to have a certification behind the display so you know that you’re getting what Lenovo advertises. And for what it’s worth, Lenovo’s advertising is a lot more accurate than many displays I’ve tested.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends The question remains, though: is it fast enough for gaming? Yes, but it’s not the fastest we’ve seen. Recent OLED panels like the Asus ROG Swift PG27AQDM have sub-millisecond response times, along with a 240Hz refresh rate. The Lenovo Y32p-30 is plenty fast with its 144Hz refresh rate, but it’s still a decent crop below the wave of OLEDs we’ve seen for highly competitive gamers.
Where the display makes up for that is resolution. It’s a full 4K panel at 31.5 inches, offering a pixel density of just shy of 140 pixels per inch (ppi). The OLED panels we’ve seen like the LG UltraGear OLED 27 , clock in close to 108 ppi.
Out of the box, there are no issues doing color work on this monitor, and most gaming displays can’t say that.
That extra bump in clarity makes the Lenovo Y32p-30 a great option for desktop use. It certainly helps that it’s super color accurate, as well. I measured a color error of only 0.5 in its Neutral color mode, which is better than displays that cost twice as much in many cases. Out of the box, there are no issues doing color work on this monitor, and most gaming displays can’t say that.
You have several color modes to choose from, but none of them reached the heights of the Neural color mode. The sRGB mode, for example, topped out with a color error of 1.5, which isn’t bad, but still below what you get in the Neutral color mode.
It’s easy to access these settings, too. Lenovo includes an inoffensive on-screen display (OSD) that you can access with the joystick on the back of the display. I never used it, though. You can access all of the settings of the display through Lenovo’s Artery software, which doesn’t require an extra cable to your PC like the Sony InZone M9.
 You can even sync multiple displays through the software, matching their color profile and settings.
Desktop use is great, but the Y32p-30 starts to run into issues with media consumption. It’s a bog standard IPS monitor with a peak brightness of 370 nits and a contrast ratio of 910:1 as measured by my SpyderX. It’s certified for DisplayHDR 400, but this really isn’t the monitor for HDR.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends With 16 edge-lit local dimming zones, HDR isn’t an option on the monitor. You can turn it on, and Lenovo includes several HDR modes, but it doesn’t change the image much. In Cyberpunk 2077 and Horizon Zero Dawn, it was slightly more vibrant, but I’d have a hard time telling you if HDR was on in a blind test.
It’s a little harder to justify the Y32p-30 when HDR is brought into the mix, especially when displays like the Cooler Master Tempest GP27Q and GP27U offer excellent HDR with a mini-LED backlight. That monitor carries its own issues, particularly with blooming, but there’s no denying it looks better than the Y32p-30 in cinematic games.
I have no doubt that if Lenovo released the Y32p-30 early last year, it would earn an Editor’s Choice badge.
On the other hand, to get a great HDR monitor pushing the size, resolution, and image quality of the Y32p-30, you have to spend close to twice, as much as evidenced by a display like the Samsung Odyssey Neo G8.
 And some displays, like the Corsair Xeneon 32 , match the Y32p-30 in quality while costing around $250 more.
But the display that really challenges the Y32p-30 is the Gigabyte M32U.
 It clocks in at $680, a clean $70 less than the $750 Lenovo is asking for with the Y32p-30. There are some elements of Lenovo’s display that make up that price difference, in particular the stand and Artery software. The point remains, though, that Gigabyte’s monitor offers the major elements of the Y32p-30 for $70 less.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends I have no doubt that if Lenovo released the Y32p-30 early last year, it would earn an Editor’s Choice badge. In 2023, there are more mini-LED monitors around, as well as cheaper 4K options like the M32U, which makes it a little tougher to recommend.
That doesn’t mean you should write off the Y32p-30. It’s still a great display, particularly if you want something that can pull double duty as a solid option for both a desktop and gaming monitor. It doesn’t specialize as heavily in either of those areas as some other recent displays I’ve seen, but it doesn’t need to. It’s just a shame it’s not a little cheaper.
Editors' Recommendations Ditch your 4K monitor for one of the best 5K displays you can buy The first glossy 4K gaming monitor is getting a major price cut Lenovo’s Legion Glasses promise big-screen gaming wherever you are How we test monitors Samsung’s first QD-OLED gaming monitor might be dead on arrival Lenovo Monitor Reviews PC PC Gaming Product Reviews Windows Reviews Computing The best 4K gaming laptops offer comparable performance to high-end desktops, with powerful CPUs and graphics cards that can deliver high frame rates and detail settings on gorgeous, high-fidelity displays. If you just want to watch 4K movies on your laptop, you can get away with a standard 4K laptop, but if you want to play games at this kind of detail, you need one of the best 4K gaming laptops.
Computing The past few years have seen a rise in the adoption of gaming monitors ranging between 27 inches and 34 inches. There is no doubt that 27 inches is the optimum size for most gamers, but there are some who prefer larger screen real estate for a more immersive experience. For them, 32 inches could be the perfect size, and we've put together a list of the best 32-inch gaming monitors you can find in 2022.
Our best pick from the list has to be the Gigabyte M32U, as it comes with 4K resolution, a fast refresh rate, and great color reproduction, and even throws in HDMI 2.1, allowing gamers to hook up new-generation consoles.
Computing Asus dropped another category-shaking gaming monitor at CES 2023 called the Asus ROG Swift PG32UQXR featuring DisplayPort 2.1, 4K resolution, and a large screen size.
Creating waves and competing against the best gaming monitors at CES 2023 is what Asus seems to be focusing on this year. First, it showcased the absolutely bonkers do-I-really-need-it-yes-just-because 540Hz ROG Swift Pro PG248QP -- its highest refresh rate monitor yet.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
