Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Reviews LG 27GN950 review: The perfect 4K gaming monitor, almost By Niels Broekhuijsen Close $799.00 Extremely good image quality Superbly fast gaming performance Intuitive, sharp and responsive OSD Classy looks Easily access I/O No HDMI 2.1 Unimpressive stand If you’re one of the lucky few that managed to get your hands on one of the latest graphics cards, you’ll also need a killer 4K gaming monitor to match it.
Design Ports and controls Image quality Gaming performance What to expect from HDR600 Our take But even the best monitors have a tough time offering both great image quality and a high refresh rate. LG’s new 4K gaming monitor, the 27GN950, claims to do just that. Using Nano-IPS screen technology, it just might be as close as you’ll get to perfection without jumping all the way up to an OLED TV.
10 best gaming monitors of 2023: tested and reviewed The best 4K gaming monitors of 2023: ultrawides, high refresh rates, and more The best 4K gaming laptops for 2023 Design Image used with permission by copyright holder Being a 27-inch monitor, the first thing that will stand out about the 27GN950 is that it isn’t very big. Among the massive ultrawide monitors and 32-inch 4K behemoths, this 27-inch panel is a breath of fresh air as its focus is purely on a crisp image.
The bezels around the panel are hair-thin, with the bottom one a little thicker than the rest. There is no LG logo to be found on the front of the panel, and without a curve, it looks surprisingly elegant — if you omit the somewhat garish stand.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Around the rear of the monitor, you’ll notice that the display’s enclosure isn’t made from the fanciest materials. It’s just cheap, scratchy plastics. Fortunately, it’s at the back, so you won’t be troubled by it too often.
Around the mount and input/output island is a big RGB ring, which lights up with the monitor and can adjust its colors to what’s on display — it’s a neat party trick to increase immersion despite the modest panel size.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Then there’s the display’s stand, which I’m not a fan of. The adjustment mechanism has all the height, tilt, and rotate adjustments you’ll need. But with a panel that looks as elegant as this, I feel the stand itself is a bit too aggressively styled. It’s like a throwback to an older generation of gaming gear, but it’s not one I’m nostalgic for.
The front feet connect to the main pillar in an odd fashion, and I wish LG had kept its logo off for a cleaner aesthetic. If you’re a minimalist like me, though, I’d ditch the stand and use a monitor arm. There are VESA 100 mounting holes are present to assist with this.
Ports and controls Image used with permission by copyright holder If you’re a pure PC gamer, the 27GN950’s rear input/output panel will serve you well. It comes with one DisplayPort 1.4a port that supports DSC (Display Stream Compression) in order to deliver full 4K , 160Hz, 4:4:4 RGB support when using an RTX 20-series GPU or newer.
If you’re someone who also has a console placed next to your PC to get access to Sony’s exclusives, you may feel a bit let down for one simple reason: The absence of HDMI 2.1.
 Indeed, with the Playstation 5 and Xbox Series X promising 120Hz 4K gameplay over HDMI 2.1 , it seems a bit odd that LG opted to install only an HDMI 2.0 controller despite the majority of its latest TVs supporting HDMI 2.1.
 This means the maximum refresh rate supported by the 27GN950 over the HDMI ports is a measly 60 Hz. At least there are two HDMI ports here, so you can plug in two consoles if you’re OK with the refresh rate compromise.
Other than that, there is a two-port USB hub and a headphone jack, and the monitor is powered by a 110-watt external power brick that’s thin and easy to hide under your desk.
The immediate access to brightness controls is extremely valuable.
LG’s on-screen display (OSD) control panel is in a league of its own. The interface is controlled through a single directional toggle at the bottom of the display, and it’s extremely crisp, responsive, and easy to navigate. To control the display’s brightness, you simply push the toggle forward or backward to jump straight into the brightness controls. To control volume for the headphones , just toggle left or right to lower or raise the volume.
The OSD is also easy to navigate. It has five main submenus that include Game Mode with a few presets and Game Adjust with advanced options such as Adaptive-Sync, a Black stabilizer for boosting dark-level detail, and a cheating crosshair. The Picture Adjust menu gives options for adjusting brightness, contrast, sharpness, and color settings. Finally, there is an Inputs submenu and one called General System.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The only complaint I have about the OSD is that seemingly doesn’t render in a high resolution. The 4K panel is capable of displaying extremely sharp and crisp images, so it’s a little weird that the OSD is rendered a little fuzzy, though it’s not like you’ll spend a ton of time here anyway, and it’s still better than most.
Image quality LG’s Nano IPS-based gaming monitors stand out with the image quality they provide, and the 27GN950 is no exception. The company promises that the 27GN950 covers 98% of the DCI-P3 space, and while our unit didn’t quite hit that figure, it wasn’t far off with a tested value of 96%. Our sample covered 100% of the sRGB space and 88% of AdobeRGB.
We also tested the monitor’s color accuracy, which resulted in an average Delta-E value (difference from real) of just 0.69. Consider that anything below a Delta-E of 2 is generally accepted as good enough for professional work, and you’ll probably agree that the 27GN950 is superbly well-suited to creative graphic work, which isn’t something we often see on gaming monitors.
Where the display falters, however, is in contrast performance. The fast Nano IPS panel is great for quick responses, high refresh rates, a wide color gamut, and accurate colors, but one of IPS’ weaknesses is weak contrast performance. Our sample achieved a figure of 980:1 at full brightness, which is pretty much identical to the promised 1000:1 ratio on the spec sheet. If you’re someone who likes to play games at night and don’t need the wide gamut and color accuracy, you may prefer to opt for a cheaper VA panel.
The 27GN950 is superbly well-suited to graphic work — which isn’t something we see often on gaming monitors.
The peak brightness we achieved on the 27GN950 was an eye-burning 462 nits, which is more than plenty for most use cases, including brightly-lit rooms, and more than promised on the spec sheet. Gamma performance was also perfect out of the box, and the 6900K white point is pretty close to the 6500K target, though this can easily be corrected with OSD settings or calibration.
After calibrating the monitor, I was able to pull 1% more DCI-P3 coverage out of it, correct the white point, and increase the color accuracy from 0.69 to just 0.63. While these are improvements, it’s safe to say that there’s little to gain from calibrating the 27GN950 and most users needn’t bother.
Gaming performance Image used with permission by copyright holder When it comes to gaming on the LG 27GN950, there’s one thing you need to be aware of before taking the plunge: This display requires a serious amount of GPU horsepower if you want to run modern titles at the full 4K resolution and make use of the high refresh rate.
For older games, this won’t be as much of an issue, but today’s AAA titles, especially those with ray tracing , will be heavy to push. You’ll need at least a GeForce RTX 3070 or Radeon RX 6800 XT if you want smooth performance, and even with those cards, you won’t be nearing the top end of the panel’s 144Hz refresh rate when running the games at maximum settings.
But that’s not a flaw of the monitor itself. When it comes to panel performance, the 27GN950 puts on an impressive show. The Nano IPS panel is extremely responsive, and after updating the display’s firmware, easily overclockable to 160 Hz with just the press of a button. Stuttering and tearing is handled by FreeSync Premium Pro and G-Sync compatibility, and the display has low frame rate compensation for the inevitable dips with modern titles.
Unlike VA panels, the Nano IPS panel here doesn’t smear.
The smallish form factor of 27 inches also lends itself well to competitive gameplay as it allows you to keep all of the game within view. It’s also a great monitor for those who like to get up close during intense gameplay thanks to the sharp image.
Unlike VA panels, the Nano IPS panel here doesn’t smear either. Budget high-refresh rate monitors often come with VA panels, and though they offer better contrast ratios, they can produce noticeable color smearing, especially in dark scenes. The 27GN950 doesn’t suffer from any such flaw.
However, what really makes the 27GN950 special is the combination of this stellar gaming performance with the sharpness of 4K , and the extremely wide color palette offered by the 96% DCI-P3 coverage.
Image used with permission by copyright holder I played a fair amount of Horizon Zero Dawn on this panel, and this game makes excellent use of its wide gamut. The way it portrays the sun’s colors, intense red sunsets, vivid greens for the foliage, and deep blues for the water, along with the sharp image … it was something to behold.
The trade-off is that it’s not as immersive as something like the LG 34GN850 Curved Ultrawide with the same Nano-IPS technology, but not everyone wants a huge, ultrawide monitor on their desk.
What to expect from HDR600 The 27GN950 also comes with HDR600 support, which means it can produce up to 600 nits peak brightness when using just one of the HDR zones. It comes with 16 edge-lit dimming zones, which is alright but not great. It’s certainly no OLED panel, and VA panels tend to do a better job at producing deep black levels.
Of course, if you want a true HDR experience on a gaming monitor, you need to find one with FALD (Full Array Local Dimming) lighting, but this array of LEDs behind the panel instead of edge lighting costs a lot of money. Think two grand lots of money.
Personally, I enjoy playing most with HDR turned off. It’s nice to play around with what the 27GN950 can offer, but the cleanest image is produced with it off. Besides, Windows looks very flushed out with HDR on, and you’re required to turn it on in Windows to be able to enable it in your game settings.
Our take If you’re in the market for a 4K monitor for both gaming and creative work, the LG 27GN950 is, at this moment in time, pretty much your only option. If offers a responsive panel with up to a 160Hz refresh rate, all while maintaining a wide color gamut and extremely good color accuracy out of the box, which isn’t a combination we see very often. It’s also one of the first 4K gaming monitors to use DSC.
The main drawbacks are its contrast performance, an unimpressive stand, and the distinct lack of HDMI 2.1 , which is a strange omission considering LG has been including it on its OLED TVs since 2019. This makes the panel mostly suited to PC use, as the next-gen consoles won’t have enough bandwidth to push into high frame rates.
Are there any alternatives? At this time, the only two viable alternatives are the Asus XG27UQ and the Acer Nitro XV273K, which both come in slightly cheaper. However, they’re not overclockable to 160 Hz, and instead limited to 144 Hz, and their overall look is a little tackier. Other than the stand, the LG 27GN950 looks simple, clean, and refined.
How long will it last? Although the IPS technology is showing its age with the low contrast ratio, the 4K 160 Hz panel means this monitor should last you quite a while, as it will take a few more years before GPUs are able to saturate its refresh rate.
The monitor should last as long as most monitors : a minimum of 5 years. LG only covers it with a 1-year warranty, though.
Should I buy it? Yes, if you need a monitor for both work and play, and it has to be 4K , the LG 27GN950 is a great option to consider.
Editors' Recommendations Ditch your 4K monitor for one of the best 5K displays you can buy The first glossy 4K gaming monitor is getting a major price cut We’re finally getting a 4K OLED gaming monitor, and it’s coming soon Asus’ 4K, 32-inch mini-LED gaming monitor might hit the perfect sweet spot CES 2023: Asus’ new 27-inch OLED monitor hits the sweet spot for gamers Gaming LG Monitor Reviews Product Reviews Computing Samsung is convinced you need a bigger gaming monitor -- or at least, that's what its CES 2023 lineup suggests. The company introduced four new monitors to its Odyssey gaming line, ranging from a 34-inch ultrawide monitor up to its 8K 57-inch monster.
It's an interesting move considering CES is also bringing the first 27-inch OLED monitors from LG that have been the talk of tech for the past couple of months. But for now, Samsung has just two Odyssey OLED monitors it's introducing: a 34-inch model and a 49-inch model.
Samsung Odyssey OLED G9 Computing The LG 27-inch UltraGear OLED QHD gaming monitor might appear as your standard display at first glance, albeit with an extremely impressive screen. After spending some time with it, though, I can now more fully appreciate the persistent introduction of OLED to the gaming monitor market in recent years.
At 27 inches, the UltraGear OLED QHD is finally an OLED gaming monitor at a common size for desks. After having some hands-on time with the screen at LG's campus in New Jersey, I've come to understand the brand's effort to provide total gaming solutions for all sorts of gamers, not only in terms of display size but also in terms of accessibility.
Computing LG has revealed the price and preorder details for its latest UltraGear OLED gaming monitor models, which were announced earlier this year.
The 27-inch LG UltraGear OLED 27GR95QE model and the 45-inch UltraGear Curved OLED 45GR95QE model are available for preorder at exclusively LG.com as of Monday, selling for $1,000 and $1,700 respectively.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
