Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? LG DualUp review: the ultimate dual-monitor setup? By Luke Larsen Close $700.00 Unique shape Great for multitasking Wide color space Excellent color calibration Comes with an arm desk mount Mediocre contrast and black levels Windows 11 Snap Layouts support could be better Having a secondary monitor flipped vertically is a solution more and more people are trying out. That’s the exact setup the LG DualUp thrives in, despite being a monitor unlike any other that exists.
LG DualUp specs Not quite a square Image quality Ports and controls Should you buy it? Its odd, 16:18 aspect ratio makes it a surprisingly effective secondary monitor. It’s not a display without some eccentricities though, making it more of a luxury item than something most monitor buyers should consider. But for the right person, this is probably the monitor they’ve always wished existed.
9 best monitors for 2023: tested and reviewed Ditch your 4K monitor for one of the best 5K displays you can buy Best monitor deals: Gaming, office, curved, OLED and more LG DualUp specs Screen size 27.6 inches (diagonal) Panel type IPS Resolution 2560 x 2880 (16:18) Peak brightness 300 nits HDR Yes (HDR10+) Response time 5ms GtG Refresh rate 60Hz Curve None Speakers Yes (MaxxAudio) Inputs 2x HDMI, 1x DisplayPort 1.4 USB ports 1x USB-C (90W PD), 2x USB-A 3.0 (downstream) Adjustments Tilt/Height/Swivel/Pivot/Extend/Retract USB-C charging power 90W Dimensions (WxHxD) 481.5 x 549.5 x 44.9 mm List price $700 Not quite a square Image used with permission by copyright holder No one wants to use a vertical screen while writing emails or running spreadsheets. But the desire to move more of our computing time to vertical makes some amount of sense. Whether its YouTube Shorts or TikTok, more and more of our content is being made specifically for vertical screens, and it’s awkward to both watch and create on a traditional 16:9 monitor.
That was my first thought when I began setting up the LG DualUp. The monitor doesn’t actually come with a traditional stand at all, but instead features an arm desk mount, which LG calls the “ergo+ stand.” Like with most arm desk mounts, you should plan on needing some extra time to set it up properly.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Without a proper stand, that also means if you’re centering it on your desk, you’ll need to connect . The single click VESA mount on the back of the display is simple enough, but positioning the clamp and grommet in a place that makes sense with your desk takes some effort. Fortunately, the LG DualUp is extremely lightweight, so handling it for the setup isn’t too bad.
But the ergo+ stand comes with lots of benefits, of course. And that’s important when using the LG DualUp as a second screen — especially because of its unique shape.
16:18 is like having two 21.5-inch displays stacked on top of each other.
The LG DualUp isn’t “vertical” in an extreme way. The 27.6-inch screen (measured diagonally) is closer to a square than it is true vertical, which makes it useful in a few different scenarios. Having a 16:18 aspect ratio means it is slightly taller than it is wide, but it’s not as extreme as flipping a 16:9 vertical.
So, what’s the reason for 16:18? Well, it’s the equivalent of having two 21.5-inch displays stacked on top of each other. That means you stack two windows vertically without having to shrink them down.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Think of it as the opposite of an ultrawide monitor , bringing the benefit of multiple monitors in a single package. In that way, it’s ideal for multitasking, just not in the side-by-side way you might be used to.
I found it particularly useful for having a 16:9 video above and a website or Word doc opened below. It’s also a great space to have a feed or chat app open like Slack or Twitter. If you’re even considering this monitor, you can probably quickly brainstorm a few scenarios where this aspect ratio might be handy. I know video and audio production pros would probably love the additional vertical space.
Unfortunately, Windows 11 doesn’t always play nice with the form factor.
Snap Layouts tends to handle different screen sizes and resolutions with grace, but a dual top and bottom setup isn’t one of the options. So, if you want to stack windows, you’ll have to do it manually.
Image quality Image used with permission by copyright holder Beyond the form factor, the LG DualUp is a quality monitor in terms of visuals. It’s a Nano IPS panel, meaning it still uses traditional backlighting, but with a layer of LG’s nano particles applied on top. This layer is what gives this monitor superior image quality for your standard IPS display.
The enhanced colors are the most obvious benefit. Hitting 89% of AdobeRGB is solid for color saturation, while the Delta-E is at just 0.77. That’s some fantastic color calibration for a display that isn’t specifically aimed at content creators.
Contrast is this display’s biggest weakness.
In terms of resolution, the DualUp sits in-between a conventional 27-inch 1440p and 4K monitor with a pixel density of 139 ppi (pixels per inch). It’s plenty crisp, even sitting up close. I measured the display’s max brightness at 330 nits, which is higher even than LG’s own claim of 300 nits.
Contrast is this display’s biggest weakness. It measured at just 730:1, which is a result of the poor black levels. As a result, text doesn’t pop as much I wished, and watching dimly lit movies or shows isn’t a great experience. The display also has a fairly strong antireflective coating. That makes it great for deflecting glare, but heightens the slightly washed-out look. But hey, LG never claimed this was a multimedia machine.
Ports and controls Image used with permission by copyright holder All the ports of the LG DualUp are located on back, and the selection is fantastic. The 90 watts of power delivery in the USB-C port, in particular, provides one-cable connection with just about any laptop you can imagine.
Meanwhile, the on-screen menus are controlled by a single joystick located in the center of the display’s underside. There, you’ll find the standard assortment of customization, such as different color modes, brightness control, and volume control.
Speaking of volume, the LG DualUp does feature a pair of speakers, but they are extremely mediocre. For anything more than dinging you for notifications, you’ll want to connect to headphones or external speakers.
Should you buy it? Image used with permission by copyright holder As a primary monitor, I don’t know that the LG DualUp makes a lot of sense. There are some specific use cases that could take advantage of the unique shape, such as a video editor who can use the top half for a timeline. But the LG DualUp works best as a secondary monitor, which is why it doesn’t even come up with a traditional stand.
At $700, though, you’re paying quite a premium for the novelty of this screen. You can buy a solid 4K monitor that can rotate vertically for around $500, and even though I prefer the LG DualUp’s aspect ratio, it’s just a bit too expensive to justify for most people. Still, there’s a lot to like about the LG DualUp, and as a proof of concept, I’m sold.
Editors' Recommendations MSI has some massive QD-OLED monitor news in the works Alienware is playing coy with its two new QD-OLED monitors 10 best gaming monitors of 2023: tested and reviewed Best Apple Studio Display deals: Up to 16% off the 5K monitor The best USB-C monitors for 2023 LG Monitor Reviews Product Reviews Computing Dual monitors can be great for boosting your productivity, even if they have their own unique problems. If you already have a great monitor, you can just buy another good monitor to easily expand your display real estate. But if you're starting from scratch, there are some monitors that are great picks for multi-monitor setups.
Here are some of the best monitors you can buy for dual-display setups.
Computing Dough has just unveiled an interesting monitor. The Spectrum Black is a 32-inch 4K OLED screen that also serves up 240Hz refresh rates. Those specs might make it one of the best gaming monitors in 2024, and it's not that far off, as it's slated for an April 2024 release. And, if the stars align, it looks like Dough's display might be the first of its kind to come out.
The monitor has a simple design, but it's the specs that make it stand out. On paper, it sounds like a solid gaming monitor, with 0.03ms gray-to-gray response times and the aforementioned high refresh rates. Locked in a 32-inch screen, it should provide sharp imagery and solid contrasts, as it's VESA DisplayHDR True Black 400-certified.
Computing Looking to jazz up your workspace? Download a sleek, high-quality wallpaper. However, if you’re working with dual monitors, finding the perfect wallpaper can be quite a task. Unfortunately, some configurations only let you select a single background for each screen.
Luckily, there’s a wide range of dual-monitor background options available, from modern designs to artsy layouts. Even better, the images are high-quality, and you can easily configure them to your screens’ unique resolutions and aspect ratios.
WallpaperFusion Our pick Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
