Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? LG UltraGear 48-inch OLED review: a TV for your desk By Jacob Roach Close $1,500.00 Fantastic OLED quality Useful desktop remote FreeSync and G-Sync support Bright, vibrant bias lighting Doesn't support dynamic HDR metadata Pixel density can be a problem The introduction of large, OLED gaming monitors begs an interesting question: What makes a gaming monitor , a monitor? Compared to the multitude of similar-sized OLED TVs out there, it’s not always easy to tell.
What makes a monitor OLED makes HDR Where gaming suffers A lot of room to play Should you buy the LG UltraGear 48-inch OLED? LG’s UltraGear 48-inch OLED gaming monitor (48GQ900-B) made me face that existential question with new appreciation. This one does have a few features to set it apart from an OLED TV, such as a series of highly capable and PC-ready ports, but don’t try to fool yourself: This gaming monitor feels a lot like a TV, for better or worse.
I saw LG’s 27-inch OLED, and it felt like the future of gaming monitors LG finally did it: a 27-inch OLED gaming monitor with a 240Hz refresh rate The best 4K 120Hz gaming monitors for 2022 LG UltraGear 48-inch OLED (48GQ900-B) Screen size 48 inches Panel typeO OLED Resolution 3840 x 2560 (4K) Peak brightness 135 nits HDR Yes, HDR 10 Response time 0.1ms GtG Refresh rate 120Hz (138Hz w/ overclock) Curve None Speakers 2x 20W Inputs 3x HDMI 2.1, 1x DisplayPort 1.4 USB ports 2x USB 3.0, 1x USB-B Adjustments None List price $1,500 What makes a monitor Jacob Roach / Digital Trends It also comes with a wireless desktop remote, not unlike the controller for the Samsung Odyssey Ark.
 It feels hollow and a bit cheap considering this is a $1,500 monitor and the remote doesn’t hold a candle to LG’s Magic Remote included with TVs like the C2.
 Still, it makes sense for a proper monitor and makes navigating the menu a breeze.
You have access to a few dedicated buttons for picture modes, along with the expected assortment of input, power, and menu buttons. Everything is centered around a large dial in the middle, which you can twist to the right or left to adjust controls and navigate the menus. It’s super intuitive and much more useful than a normal remote for a desktop setup.
My only gripe is that you aren’t able to store custom color profiles in the menu, which would be useful for quickly adjusting features like the black stabilizer and LG’s Dynamic Action Sync (DAS).
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends You have several built-in profiles, though, including four game profiles you access through a dedicated button on the controller. These profiles make a big difference, and I found myself toggling between them a lot more often than I did on a display like the Sony InZone M9.
 In Destiny 2 , for example, the standard Gamer 1 profile was a bit too dark, but it provided a nice boost in color in Forza Horizon 4.
LG’s exclusive DAS feature is a welcome addition, even if it doesn’t make a ton of sense on a screen like this. DAS essentially allows the monitor to bypass buffering through your cable, shooting data over the cable as the panel refreshes for a real-time sync. It’s a feature of esports monitors, but going for a higher refresh rate like the one offered on the Asus ROG Swift PG32UQX will provide more up-to-date information for the most competitive players.
All gamers can appreciate the inclusion of FreeSync and G-Sync , though. The display is certified for FreeSync Premium and it’s compatible with G-Sync, though it doesn’t have Nvidia’s dedicated G-Sync module inside. Regardless, you’re getting variable refresh rate, which now works over the HDMI 2.1 ports for consoles like the Xbox Series X as well as PCs.
OLED makes HDR Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Strapping the colorimeter on the screen, it’s clear why OLED is such a destination for gaming and other forms of media. LG advertises a typical brightness of 135 nits, but I measured closer to 180 nits. That sounds low, but it’s not the brightness that matters with OLED. It’s about the contrast. The UltraGear 48-inch OLED has a contrast ratio of somewhere above 1,000,000:1. My SpyderX only measured around 600,000:1, but it really doesn’t matter.
A normal LED monitor is going to have a contrast ratio of around 3,000:1 at most, which displays like the Sony InZone M9 have to compensate for with a local dimming feature.
OLEDs are like having dimming zones on every pixel. Each pixel can control its brightness (including going completely off), offering the best contrast you can get from currently available display tech.
You’re getting spectacular HDR performance here.
Brightness takes a hit, though, which is why the UltraGear 48-inch OLED is so dim. Glare is a big issue as it usually is with OLED panels, so a brighter monitor like the Alienware 34 QD-OLED is better if you’re in a bright room. The matte anti-glare coating helps with reflections a bit, much more than the glossy finish seen on LG’s OLED TVs, but brightness is the main issue here.
Still, you’re getting spectacular HDR performance. The UltraGear 48-inch OLED is an HDR monster on the level of the top OLED TVs. It’s transformative for moody games like Destiny 2 , and it makes the best HDR games like Cyberpunk 2077 pop off the screen.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends It’s great for movies, too, but that’s where the monitor/TV duality turns into a negative for the UltraGear 48-inch OLED. It only supports HDR10, while LG’s OLED TVs support Dolby Vision and dynamic tone mapping, as well. HDR10 is all that’s available for PCs, but the lack of Dolby Vision means you can’t take advantage of dynamic metadata on a console like the PlayStation 5 or a streaming box like the Nvidia Shield.
Despite that quibble, you’re still getting the best of the best in terms of HDR: inky blacks, vibrant highlights, and color that puts any other panel technology to shame. LG advertises 99% coverage of DCI-P3 (I measured 98%, for the record), which gives you a ton of extra room in content that can go beyond sRGB. LG includes a dedicated sRGB mode if you want to limit the color range, which is a great point to reference if you’re doing any creative work on this screen.
Where gaming suffers Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Outside of the DisplayPort connection and the unique remote, LG pushed this monitor a little further than it would its TVs. The display has a max refresh rate of 120Hz, but PC gamers using the DisplayPort connection can overclock the monitor to 138Hz. And this overclock doesn’t produce the nasty smearing artifacts you find on VA panels. OLED pixels have a response time somewhere near 0.1ms, so nothing hangs around too long, even at higher refresh rates.
For gaming, the obvious question is size. Does 48 inches make sense for you? Although the massive size was incredible in Marvel’s Spider-Man and cinematic adventures like Elden Ring, it’s a bit tough to manage in keyboard and mouse-focused games like Destiny 2 and Cyberpunk 2077.
You need to push the screen to the back of your desk and lean back a little to get the right view, which is much more comfortable to do with a controller than it is with a keyboard and mouse.
At native resolution, it’s much easier to spot aliasing on the screen as the pixel density goes through the floor.
The size has big implications for image quality, too. The screen looks great, but you need one of the best 4K graphic cards to drive this screen. Even with an RX 6700 XT, I couldn’t crack a smooth 60 fps in Destiny 2 or Cyberpunk 2077 at native resolution.
There are tools like AMD’s FidelityFX Super Resolution (FSR) and Nvidia’s Deep Learning Super Sampling (DLSS) to help with performance, but the size of the UltraGear 48-inch OLED limits their effectiveness. Even at native resolution, it’s much easier to spot aliasing on the screen a s the pixel density goes through the floor compared to something like a 27-inch 4K monitor.
That grittiness isn’t coming from film grain in Cyberpunk 2077.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends It makes sense. At TV-esque sizes, you’re supposed to view 4K a few feet away from a display. Using this monitor as a proper monitor exposes why that’s the case. Text isn’t as clear, Windows scaling needs some adjustments, and high resolutions don’t feel quite as sharp as they should. There are downsides to a larger display as a monitor, and pixel density is chief among them.
As you might suspect, you can’t adjust the monitor, either. You can’t adjust most TVs, granted, but the stand is smaller and connects to a small sliver on the back of the monitor. It doesn’t feel flimsy, but it doesn’t feel like a proper monitor stand, either. If you can, I’d mount the UltraGear 48-inch OLED on a wall with the VESA mounting holes.
A lot of room to play Jacob Roach / Digital Trends The screen is massive and unmanageable for a lot of people, but it does wonders for productivity. You’re essentially getting a grid of four 24-inch monitors, and with Windows Snap Layouts, you can drag windows around to occupy all corners of the screen. The UltraGear 48-inch OLED may look unpractical for day-to-day use, but it’s a lot more practical than something like the Samsung Odyssey Ark (and a lot cheaper, to boot).
The size affords some seriously powerful mood lighting, too. You have two big LED bars around the back of the monitor that offer a soft underglow. Unlike a lot of these bias lighting features, the UltraGear 48-inch OLED’s bars get bright enough that you don’t need to buy a $15 RGB strip to stick behind the monitor. You don’t have a ton of color options, but you can still set up four static color presets in the menu, as well as choose a cycling effect.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Thankfully, you don’t need to dedicate an extra desk space to speakers with the UltraGear 48-inch OLED. The built-in speakers are fantastic, with deep resonant bass, a ton of volume, and clarity in the mids and highs. They’re not on the level of the best PC speakers , but I played through some Destiny 2 and Tales of Arise on the built-in speakers, and I don’t have any complaints.
Most PC gamers use a gaming headset, and the UltraGear 48-inch OLED has you covered there, too. There’s a headphone jack on the front of the monitor, which even supports DTS Headphone: X. I watched a few movie trailers and played Cyberpunk 2077 with the HyperX Cloud Stinger 2 headset wired up, and I could see myself settling in just fine.
Should you buy the LG UltraGear 48-inch OLED? Jacob Roach / Digital Trends A small touch like the headphone jack up front is what makes the UltraGear 48-inch OLED a proper monitor, not a TV. Individually, none of the features justify buying this monitor over a newer, better TV in the same size for the same price. Collectively, they make using the display as a monitor much more practical.
That functionality is only bolstered by the excellent image quality afforded by OLED. There isn’t another monitor with a traditional LED backlight that can hold a candle to what LG is offering here, at least in terms of image quality. It’s no secret that monitors are well behind TVs in technology, but the UltraGear 48-inch OLED balances the scales — even if 48 inches is far too big for most folks to feel comfortable with.
Editors' Recommendations Asus’ 4K, 32-inch mini-LED gaming monitor might hit the perfect sweet spot We finally know the price of LG’s 240Hz OLED gaming monitors LG’s latest 4K monitor wants to be your smart home hub LG’s new OLED gaming monitor packs a 240Hz refresh rate Sony’s first gaming monitor is under $1,000 and all-in on HDR LG Monitor Reviews PC Gaming Product Reviews Computing LG has just announced the upcoming release of three exciting new monitors, including a real treat for those who like to game on a large screen: A 48-inch OLED gaming monitor.
Aside from LG's first OLED display made for gamers, there are also 4K Nano IPS and QHD Nano IPS monitors to choose from.
Computing There are a dizzying amount of display options for gamers these days. With varying refresh rates, resolutions, and special features, it can be hard to pin down which monitor is best for your setup. Let's break down each element of a display, and what you should look for to find the perfect gaming monitor for your station.
Resolution Computing LG's latest gaming monitor, the 48-inch UltraGear 48GQ900, has officially been announced. The OLED display is among its highlighted features and it marks a first for the brand's gaming monitors.
All the specs have been revealed, but the most important detail about the monitor is still unknown. The price.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
