Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? LG UltraGear OLED 27 review: the OLED revolution is here By Jacob Roach Close $1,000.00 Vibrant colors and HDR Excellent motion clarity Fantastic matte finish Generous port selection Sturdy stand with plenty of adjustments Low SDR brightness Some text clarity issues Remote is necessary to control the display For years, the best gaming monitors have leaned on one type of panel: traditional LCD. But that’s starting to change, and LG is leading the charge. The UltraGear OLED 27 (27GR95QE-B) is the first 27-inch OLED gaming monitor, finally offering the vibrant HDR, true blacks, and astounding motion clarity of OLED in a monitor form factor that makes sense. And it delivers on all fronts.
Video review LG UltraGear OLED 27 (27GR95QE-B) specs Striking design, half-baked execution Beautiful, vibrant OLED Perfect pixel density Superb gaming Should you buy the LG UltraGear OLED 27? There are some issues, most notably the cumbersome remote and high price for a 1440p display, but those immediately fade into the background when the UltraGear OLED 27 comes to life. Perfect pixel density meets vibrant colors meets a high refresh rate capable of excellent motion clarity, adding up to a display that’s not only one of the best gaming monitors , but one of the best monitors period.
Alienware is playing coy with its two new QD-OLED monitors CES 2023: Asus’ new 27-inch OLED monitor hits the sweet spot for gamers We finally know the price of LG’s 240Hz OLED gaming monitors Video review LG UltraGear OLED 27 (27GR95QE-B) specs LG UltraGear OLED 27 (27GR95QE-B) Screen size 27 inches Panel type OLED Resolution 2,560 x 1,440 Peak brightness 200 nits (SDR), 800 nits (HDR) HDR Yes Local dimming N/A – OLED Contrast ratio 1,500,000:1 Response time 0.03 milliseconds (GtG) Refresh rate 240Hz Curve None Speakers None Inputs 2x HDMI 2.1, 1x DisplayPort Ports 2x USB 3, 1x 4-pole headphone/microphone Adjustments 4..3 inches height, 20 degrees swivel, 20 degrees tilt List price $1,000 Where to buy Striking design, half-baked execution Jacob Roach / Digital Trends The first thing that stands out about the UltraGear OLED 27 is how thin it is. There’s a chunky back panel that houses the connection ports and active (but silent) cooling, but the panel itself is only a fraction-of-an-inch thick.
On the back, there’s some bright LED lighting that you can set to one of our static colors or cycle through a spectrum. The color matches a smaller underglow light that shines down through the control button. Yes, that’s just a single button to control the monitor, which is where the UltraGear OLED 27 starts to run into problems.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends I’m a big fan of LG’s on-screen display (read my UltraGear OLED 48 review for more on that), but it’s just a pain to access on the OLED 27. The singular control button doesn’t let you access the full menu, instead asking you to do a single press to cycle through a quick access menu or a long press to select a setting. This leads to situations where turning down the brightness requires pressing the button 100 times to go from the brightest settings to the dimmest.
You’re meant to control the monitor with the included remote, but even with that, the UltraGear OLED 27 runs into issues. For starters, the battery slot on the remote requires a screwdriver to get open, and LG doesn’t include the coin battery you need to power the remote. This wouldn’t be a problem if you could control the on-screen display with the button on the monitor, or if LG had included the battery, which very few people are likely to have laying around, but neither of those things are true.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends That’s annoying, but it’s an easy problem to solve. What the UltraGear OLED 27 gets right is adjustment. Ironically, you don’t need a screwdriver to set up the sturdy stand, and it enables just shy of four-and-a-half inches of height adjustment, 20 degrees of swivel, 20 degrees of tilt, and the ability to turn the monitor vertically.
It also has great port selection. You get two USB 3.0 passthroughs on the back, as well as a headphone/microphone jack on the bottom of the display. This port even supports DTS Headphone:X for virtual 3D audio, offering a high-end audio experience right under the front of the display.
Beautiful, vibrant OLED Jacob Roach / Digital Trends What makes the UltraGear OLED 27 special is right in the name: OLED. Self-dimming pixels mean you get true black levels and a theoretically infinite contrast ratio. It’s the antidote for the embarrassing state of HDR with most gaming monitors.
Brightness isn’t the main draw here, though. It’s contrast. LG claims the monitor can reach peak brightness of 1,000 nits, but only for 3% of the screen. I measured a max brightness of 600 nits, but that was with HDR cranked. That sounds high, but the monitor won’t normally get that bright. In SDR, it topped out at just over 250 nits, which is fairly dim for a monitor released in 2023.
It’s not as bright in HDR as LG says, but brightness was never a big issue for me. In SDR, the contrast ratio was over 250,000:1, and in HDR , there’s an infinite contrast ratio. Colors absolutely pop off the screen, and even regular websites look vibrant. That’s despite the matte finish on the display. Unlike the Dough Spectrum Glossy , the UltraGear OLED 27 comes with a matte finish on the screen. It never became an issue, dealing with reflections while still letting the vibrant color of the panel shine through.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends And that color is vibrant. I measured 100% coverage of the sRGB color space, as well as 97% coverage of DCI-P3. Color accuracy was excellent out of the box, too, with a color error of 1.5 (less than 2 is ideal for video and photo editing). You could easily jump in and start editing a video on the UltraGear OLED 27 without any adjustments to the color.
That’s only in SDR, though.
HDR is a different beast. The UltraGear OLED 27 has a WRGB subpixel layout, which means there’s a white subpixel alongside the standard red, green, and blue ones. This addition is what helps the UltraGear OLED 27 get brighter than similar OLEDs, but it comes with a trade-off. Since the display has to lean on the white subpixel to get bright in HDR , colors start to lose saturation as you turn the brightness up.
I measured a color error of above 6 in HDR , and that was only at 75% brightness. The UltraGear OLED 27 is great for color work when it’s in SDR, but HDR is exclusively for playing games, watching movies, and browsing the internet.
OLED doesn’t come free on concerns, either.
Burn-in is an omnipresent issue, as static elements will fade into the display over time. LG includes some features like an automatic screen saver and pixel shifting, and burn-in is less of an issue on OLED today than it was in years past. But it’s still a relevant concern to bring up if you plan on using the UltraGear OLED 27 for daily use outside of gaming.
Perfect pixel density I was a little taken back when I heard the LG OLED 27 was a 1440p monitor. It’s $1,000, which is tough to swallow when even premium 4K gaming monitors like the Sony InZone M9 are several hundred dollars cheaper. It’s not always about raw resolution, though.
At 27 inches, the pixel density is excellent on the UltraGear OLED 27. Text looks super sharp, and images look vibrant thanks to the OLED panel. You’re spending more for fewer pixels, but that’s not really important once you sit down and look at the monitor.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends / Digital Trends It’s not a crazy price, either.
Alienware’s 34 QD-OLED is anywhere from $1,100 to $1,300. It has a higher resolution, but only because it uses an ultrawide 21:9 aspect ratio. The UltraGear OLED 27 is basically that same monitor pixel-wise, just with the ultrawide wings cut off.
But I mainly appreciate the resolution because of the refresh rate. This is a 240Hz panel, and while it’s hard to recommend such a high refresh rate on a 4K monitor like the Samsung Odyssey Neo G8 , it’s a perfect fit for 1440p. As long as you have a powerful gaming PC , you’ll easily be able to push frame rates capable of driving the full 240Hz.
Given how great the OLED panel looks, the UltraGear OLED 27 makes a very strong argument that more resolution isn’t always better. And paired with the high refresh rate, it looks fantastic.
The only concern for text clarity is the WRGB subpixel structure, which is an issue we saw on the first batch of QD-OLED monitors.
 There’s some blurring around text as you sit close to the monitor, but I never found it distracting while using the display. You have to get very close to the screen to notice, so although text clarity is a problem compared to a traditional LCD monitor, it’s far from a deal breaker.
Superb gaming Jacob Roach / Digital Trends You should already know the UltraGear OLED 27 is a great gaming monitor. A 240Hz refresh rate, response times below 0.1 millisecond, FreeSync certification and G-Sync support, and stunning HDR — it’s a winning combination.
It’s that combination that makes the UltraGear OLED 27 so striking. The 240Hz refresh rate is easily beaten out by the recent barrage of 360Hz screens we’ve seen, like the Asus PG27AQN, but it’s still much higher than you see on a typical gaming monitor. Combined with the response time, motion clarity can reach the levels of a 360Hz panel, making it a great option for competitive games like Overwatch 2, Rainbow Six Siege, and Valorant.
The UltraGear OLED 27 has competitive games down, but it also has cinematic games nailed. OLED and the stellar HDR experience it brings means you can enjoy games like Cyberpunk 2077 and Horizon Zero Dawn without missing out.
And that’s the problem most gaming monitors have — you have to choose between competitive motion clarity or stunning, cinematic images. The UltraGear OLED 27 provides the best of both worlds. I jumped back and forth between Overwatch 2, Destiny 2, Cyberpunk 2077, and at least a dozen other games without adjusting a single setting on the monitor. Each time, it felt like I was getting the best experience.
Should you buy the LG UltraGear OLED 27? Jacob Roach / Digital Trends I’ve never encountered a monitor that makes perfect sense like the UltraGear OLED 27 does. It doesn’t always hold up on the spec sheet, but sitting down in front of the monitor consistently reinforced one idea: this is one of the best gaming experiences you can have right now.
It isn’t perfect, particularly for desktop use where OLED burn-in and text clarity are more pressing issues, but those problems are easy to overlook. What you’re getting is excellent motion clarity, response time, HDR , and pixel density in a package that, although expensive, is reasonably priced compared to other options on the market.
The main competition it has is the Alienware 34 QD-OLED, which says a lot about how excellent the UltraGear OLED 27 really is. LG’s advantage here is a slightly lower price and much higher refresh rate, finally bringing competitive and cinematic gaming experiences in balance.
Editors' Recommendations MSI has some massive QD-OLED monitor news in the works Samsung Odyssey OLED 49 vs. Odyssey Neo G9 (2023) I saw LG’s 27-inch OLED, and it felt like the future of gaming monitors Dough (formerly Eve) now has its own 27-inch 240Hz OLED gaming monitor LG finally did it: a 27-inch OLED gaming monitor with a 240Hz refresh rate LG Monitor Reviews PC Gaming Product Reviews Computing This has been a landmark year for monitors, ranging from the awe-inspiring Samsung Ark to the glorious Alienware 34 QD-OLED.
But three new gaming monitors have recently been announced that really get us excited about the future of PC gaming. Gigabyte, LG, and Samsung have all released interesting monitor options that gamers are bound to like the look of -- especially if you're interested in innovation above all else.
Computing LG could have two of the best new monitors on its hands. Its UltraGear OLED gaming monitor and UltraFine Display Ergo AI are coming soon, and the brand will showcase at IFA 2022 in Berlin, Germany in early September.
Both curved displays introduce new technologies to LG's consumer lines and provide unique experiences for users. The UltraGear OLED gaming monitor, model 45GR95QE, is the brand's first OLED display featuring a 240Hz refresh rate. Meanwhile, the LG UltraFine Display Ergo AI, model 32UQ890, is able to adjust its position throughout the day with AI tracking to provide users with maximum ergonomic comfort.
Computing LG has finally revealed the price for its LG UltraGear 48GQ900 OLED gaming monitor and made it available for pre-order, three months after its initial March announcement.
The monitor appears to be available only in the U.K. at the moment, where it will sell exclusively at Overclockers UK for 1,400 pounds ($1,724). The peripheral stands as LG's first OLED gaming monitor, and is priced comparably to the LG C2 Smart OLED TV in the U.K. NotebookCheck pointed out.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
