Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? LG UltraGear OLED 45 (45GR95QE-B) review: let’s get immersed By Jacob Roach Close $1,700.00 Stellar gaming experience Perfect black levels Solid SDR color accuracy Multiple OLED care features Low brightness Struggles in desktop use For the past couple of years, OLED has struggled to find a place among the best gaming monitors , but LG’s UltraGear OLED 45 feels uniquely positioned for high-end PC gaming. Its massive size and aggressive curve provide one of the most immersive gaming experiences money can buy, and the OLED panel ensures excellent colors and contrast.
Video review LG UltraGear OLED 45 (45GR95QE-B) specs Massive is an understatement A dilemma between monitor and TV Low brightness, world-class image The cinematic gaming champ A gamer’s monitor You won’t find a better monitor for cinematic games, but outside of that realm, the UltraGear OLED 45 starts to struggle. The curve makes it a tough sell for basic desktop use, as does the low pixel density — but this is a display built for gaming, and it does a great job at that, even if it comes at the sacrifice of other use cases.
LG’s new OLED gaming monitor packs a 240Hz refresh rate LG to launch a 48-inch OLED gaming monitor this summer LG’s new UltraFine OLED Pro monitors include hardware-based calibration Video review LG UltraGear OLED 45 (45GR95QE-B) specs LG UltraGear OLED 45 (45GR95QE-B) Screen size 44.5 inches Panel type OLED Resolution 3,440 x 1,440 Peak brightness 200 nits (SDR), 1,000 nits (HDR) HDR Yes Local dimming 4,953,600 zones Contrast ratio 1,500,000:1 Response time 0.03ms (GtG) Refresh rate 240Hz Curve 800R Speakers N/A Inputs 1x DisplayPort 1.4, 2x HDMI 2.0 Ports 2x USB 3.2 Gen 1 Type-A, 3.5mm headphone Adjustments 20 degrees swivel, 20 degree tilt, 4.3 inches height List price $1,700 Massive is an understatement Jacob Roach / Digital Trends It’s hard to overstate just how big the UltraGear OLED 45 really is. It’s a 44.5-inch monitor with a 21:9 aspect ratio, but its footprint is multiplied due to the steep 800R curve. Even compared to a display like the Asus ROG PG42UQ , the UltraGear OLED 45 feels massive.
That’s not a bad thing, as the size and curve fully immerse you in games. The point remains, however, that you’ll need a lot of desk space. The monitor is about 29 inches wide, and over 25 inches tall at its highest point. Thankfully, a standard 100mm x 100mm mount is available on the back, so you can wall-mount it.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Throwing the UltraGear OLED 45 on a mount isn’t a bad idea, as the included stand doesn’t have a ton of room for adjustment.
This isn’t the Samsung Ark , where you can rotate the display fully vertical. Instead, you’re given a restrictive range of 20 degrees of swivel and tilt for minor adjustments, though thankfully, there’s a generous 4.3 inches of height adjustment.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Outside of ergonomics, the UltraGear OLED 45 looks fantastic. It features LG’s signature UltraGear vents on the back, which illuminate light from the back of the display. You have a few options for colors, as well as a rainbow cycle setting in the menu. LG describes the screen as “virtually borderless,” and although there is a thin bezel, the actual frame barely peaks out around the edge of the display.
The monitor looks amazing, and if you’re positioned correctly, there’s nothing that provides quite the same gaming experience. My main problem is the lack of versatility of this design. It’s a bad option for basic desktop use due to the aggressive curve, and it’s tough to get engrossed in movies due to the bowing around the curve when you’re sitting too far back.
A dilemma between monitor and TV Jacob Roach / Digital Trends The LG OLED 45 has a standard array of ports — two HDMI 2.1 and a single DisplayPort 1.4 for inputs, along with two USB 3.2 Gen 1 connections through the built-in USB hub. Like most LG monitors, the ports are around the back of the display, rather than underneath like on the Samsung Odyssey Neo G8.
 That means the connections stick out a bit, but with a monitor this large, it’s hardly an issue.
What isn’t standard is the audio. You have access to a headphone jack that supports DTS Headphone:X virtual surround sound directly under the front of the display, which is super handy. You also have access to an optical audio jack behind the monitor. Although the UltraGear OLED 45 unfortunately doesn’t include built-in speakers, it’s easy enough to hook up a pair of PC speakers or a soundbar.
Ports are great, but I have a bone to pick with controlling the monitor. Just like the UltraGear OLED 27, you have to use the included remote in order to access the on-screen display (OSD). There’s a standard array of settings, including a few color profiles, but you can’t access the full menu without the remote.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Instead, a button on the bottom of the display pulls up a quick access menu where you can quickly adjust the brightness, turn off the monitor, and swap inputs. The problem is that this is just a button, so there are situations where you’ll have to press it a few dozen times just to turn down the brightness a bit.
When I looked at the 27-inch model, I had problems with a screw covering the battery slot for the remote, which also applies here. The larger issue here, though, is that there’s no way to control the monitor apart from the remote, and it’s annoying and time-consuming to painstakingly click through the quick access menu.
Low brightness, world-class image Jacob Roach / Digital Trends There’s no doubt that OLED provides one of the best pictures you can get out of a monitor right now. Wide color coverage, perfect black levels, and pixels that control their own brightness leads to an image that’s vibrant and moody, speeding past most LCDs. The UltraGear OLED 45 isn’t different, is entering a market that’s starting to fill up, and it comes with its own set of issues.
For starters, it’s dim. Similar to the UltraGear OLED 27 , this monitor tops out at around 200 nits of brightness. With a 3% window, LG claims up to 1,000 nits, but I only measured 780. Low brightness is typical of OLED, and although some may cry foul at a notion of a dimmer monitor, it was never too dim for me to work on during testing.
No, low brightness introduces issues that have nothing to do with being able to see the display. At lower brightness settings, whites don’t appear white, instead being shadowed in a clear gray color. I would have to turn the monitor up to around 75% brightness to even get whites to actually look white. For most of my testing, the monitor was locked at 100% brightness.
Dim as it is, there’s no doubt that the LG UltraGear OLED 45 is beautiful. It has an extended color range, and I measured 96% of DCI-P3 in my testing. It clocked in with a color error of 1.5 in SDR. That’s far better than some other OLED panels I’ve tested, like the Asus ROG PG27AQDM , though the LG OLED 45 showed a noticeable bump in yellows.
As we’ve seen in the past, HDR is where the color accuracy falls apart. It’s way off out of the box, but that doesn’t mean the monitor looks bad. This is clearly a monitor built for consumption, not creation. You can do a bit of color work in SDR, but I wouldn’t do anything serious. It’s built for watching movies and playing games, and it does an exceptional job at both.
Assuming you crank up the brightness, there’s only one issue with the image quality: pixel density. This is a 44.5-inch display with a resolution of 3,440 x 1,440, leading to a pixel density of around 83 pixels per inch (PPI). That’s around the same level as a 27-inch 1080p monitor, and it’s a big reason why a display like the LG UltraGear OLED 48 is hard to justify.
It doesn’t look nearly as sharp as something like the Alienware 34 QD-OLED due to the fact that it’s much larger. Normally, you’d solve that by sitting further back from the monitor, but with the aggressive 800R curve, you’re clearly meant to be right in the action with this display. It’s hard to spot the rough edges while playing a game or kicking back and watching a movie, but for browsing and looking at text, the screen isn’t super sharp.
As with any OLED panel, it’s important to mention a few disclaimers here. There’s always a small risk of OLED burn-in, though the hysteria surrounding OLED burn-in is a bit overblown.
 I didn’t have the slightest hint of image retention during my testing, and the UltraGear OLED 45 will automatically dim after a few minutes of inactivity.
There also are several panel-saving features. LG includes an automatic screensaver, along with a pixel-cleaning function to keep your panel looking clear.
The cinematic gaming champ Jacob Roach / Digital Trends / Digital Trends There’s only one word to describe the UltraGear OLED 45 when it comes to gaming: immersive. The 800R curve is super-aggressive, but it envelopes you in the experience of playing, and it’s hard to pull away once you’re sucked into a game. This is a display built for blockbuster, cinematic games, and it does a fantastic job at that.
It’s not the same as other OLEDs I’ve reviewed, though. Similar to LG’s 27-inch model and Asus’ OLED rival, this monitor comes with a 240Hz refresh rate. And due to using an OLED panel, it has very low response times. That leads to exceptional motion clarity, which is great if you play competitive games like Overwatch 2 and Valorant.
Although that’s true on paper, I wouldn’t recommend the UltraGear OLED 45 for these types of games. With the 21:9 aspect ratio, massive size, and steep curve, playing a competitive title always felt wrong. There was always too much screen to take in everything at once, regardless of how great the motion clarity really is.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Where the UltraGear OLED 45 shines is in single-player experiences. Games like Cyberpunk 2077, Marvel’s Spider-Man, and Horizon Zero Dawn all look fantastic, and due to how large the monitor is, you feel like you’re getting sucked into the world. If I had the UltraGear OLED 45 set up for single-player games, I’m not sure I’d ever leave my desk.
Outside of immersion and excellent HDR, the UltraGear OLED 45 has a couple of perks for gaming. For starters, it’s G-Sync Compatible and certified with FreeSync Premium, so you’re getting variable refresh rate regardless of if you have an AMD or Nvidia GPU. In addition, it comes with a headphone jack on bottom that support DTS Headphone:X for virtual surround sound. You can get virtual surround sound by plugging your headset into your PC, but having the port right under the monitor is handy. LG even includes a few profiles tailored to gaming or watching movies.
A gamer’s monitor 1 When the UltraGear OLED 45 is operating at full tilt, there’s nothing like it. The gaming experience for cinematic titles is engrossing, and you won’t want to stop playing. Outside of that boundary, though, the display becomes a lot less practical.
It’s tough recommending it for general desktop or work use due to the massive size and OLED panel, and although the size would normally make a good option for movies, the aggressive curve and specific viewing distance can kill the mood. There are also some issues with pixel density, with an ultrawide like the Alienware 34 QD-OLED offering much better clarity despite sporting the same resolution.
Even with those problems, the UltraGear OLED 45 shoots past displays like the Samsung Odyssey Neo G9 in games, providing an immersive gaming experience that other displays can’t keep up with.
Editors' Recommendations 3 upcoming gaming monitors worth getting excited about A key detail about LG’s OLED gaming monitor is still unknown LG’s first gaming laptop comes with some high-end specs LG claims new 27-inch UltraGear is world’s fastest 4K gaming monitor LG’s UltraGear monitors are blazingly fast, with a 1ms response time LG Monitor Reviews PC Gaming Product Reviews Computing Lenovo is probably one of the best-known laptop makers, especially since they have an incredibly wide variety of them to choose from. That also means they have an excellent selection of gaming laptops, so you can hone in on something that fits your budget. That's especially the case with the ongoing early Black Friday deals that are seeing laptops being cut down in price across the board. That said, Lenovo's selection of gaming laptops is too wide for us to include all their active deals here, so we've selected some of our favorites for both AMD and Intel CPUs. Also, if you're not sure of where to start, you should check out our list of best Lenovo laptops for some good options.
Best Lenovo Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals (AMD) Lenovo has a wider selection of AMD gaming laptops, which is great if you want to go with something AMD-powered. Unfortunately, there aren't any good deals on Lenovo laptops with both an AMD CPU and GPU, but the selection below is wide enough to pick something that fits your needs a bit better. And, if you want something with an RTX 4090 on a budget, then the AMD version is probably the cheapest for Lenovo.
Computing Printers are complicated machines featuring a mix of plastics, metals, electronics, and components, some of which are potentially flagged as hazardous waste. In 2023, it's more important than ever to be kind to the planet, and there are several environmentally safe ways to dispose of a printer.
Even the best printers in the world can reach the end of their life after several years if ink or toner is no longer available. A well-loved printer can suffer from accumulated wear and tear or damage from a catastrophic power surge that's too expensive to repair.
Computing It's Black Friday, which means it is time to give expensive tech products and fun, but expensive, toys a second look. The right Black Friday deals are there to take these categories of products down in price. Where these categories of expensive tech and cool toys collide is the Meta Quest 2, a VR headset, and sure enough, it has a good sale going on over at Amazon right now. Normally $300, its price has dropped by $51 down to just $249, one of the best VR headset Black Friday deals we've seen. The really good news? This deal is here now, so you don't have to wait to buy it like you will with the rest of your post Thanksgiving shopping. In fact, if you tap the button below and buy now, and with a little shipping luck, you might have it by Thanksgiving to play with your family.
Why you should buy the Meta Quest 2 The Meta Quest 2, which dominated Steam last year, is a VR headset that gives a full 360 field of view, allows you to experience 3D positional audio, and has over 500 compatible titles between gaming, fitness, and other experiences. If you're a Twitch viewer, you may recognize it from streamers playing Meta Quest 2 games like Beat Saber or the somewhat ironically humorous Among Us VR. It refreshes at 120Hz and gives each eye a view of 1832 x 1920p.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
