Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? This 27-inch 4K monitor is an awesome, affordable choice for creators By Mark Coppock Close $300.00 Excellent colors Good brightness and contrast Affordable price Solid build Attractive design Confusing buttons Limited flexibility Ugly marketing label Massive monitors of 32 inches and larger tend to get all the attention. In fact, we haven’t reviewed a smaller monitor in some time, with the 2020 Dell 27 USB-C P2720DC being one of a few and remaining on our best monitors list. Not everyone needs or has the space for such a large display, and that’s where a product like MSI’s new 27-inch Modern MD271UL comes in.
Specs Modern appearance and convenience Simple connectivity, confusing controls Excellent images for creators, with the right settings A sharp, colorful, and affordable monitor with widespread appeal It’s not a gaming monitor or one that boasts advanced technology like OLED, QLED, or mini-LED. Instead, it’s an affordable IPS panel that promises excellent colors for creators. And in my testing, the Modern MD271UL did produce the kind of colors that creators need, although you need to set things up just right to get there. At $300, that makes the Modern MD271UL an affordable display that will meet the needs of a variety of users.
The best 4K gaming monitors of 2023: ultrawides, high refresh rates, and more Asus’ 4K, 32-inch mini-LED gaming monitor might hit the perfect sweet spot The best gaming monitors under $1,000: curved, ultrawide, 4K, and more Specs MSI Modern MD271UL Screen size 27 inches 21:9 Panel type IPS Resolution 4K UHD (3840 x 2160) Peak brightness 300 nits HDR No Contrast ratio 1,000:1 Response time 4ms Color gamut 1.097 billion colors 100% sRGB 95% AdobeRGB 99% DCU-PD Refresh rate 60Hz Curve No Speakers No Ports 1 x DisplayPort 1.2a 2 x HDMI 2.0b 1 x USB-C with 65 watts power delivery 1 x 3.5mm headphone jack Adjustments 25 degrees of tilt Dimensions (HxWxD) 24.15 inches x 18.63 inches x 7.81 inches Weight 16.2 pounds List price $300 At just $300, the Modern MD271UL is nicely priced for a 27-inch 4K display, as long as it provides the promised image quality. As I’m writing this review, it’s on sale for $250 direct from MSI, an even better value.
Modern appearance and convenience Mark Coppock / Digital Trends The Modern MD271UL is an attractive monitor, with thin bezels around the top and sides and a light sliver-gray color scheme. This isn’t a gaming monitor with RGB lighting and an ostentatious design, and that’s a good thing for anyone who wants to use the monitor in a professional setting. I’ll note that there’s a label along the bottom listing various monitor features, and I thought it was the usual removable marketing fluff. It wasn’t, though, and when I peeled it off it left behind an ugly stain. I’d suggest you don’t do that.
The monitor itself is constructed of plastic, unsurprisingly at this price, but it feels solid enough. The stand is metal, which adds to the sense of durability. It was easy enough to assemble, taking just a few minutes, and it’s reasonably light at 16 pounds. It doesn’t take up too much desk space for its screen size, and it’s thin at just 0.48 inches at its thinnest points. It offers just 25 degrees of tilt and a single height. That reduces its flexibility in various office settings.
The specifications sheet lists a cable management design, but I couldn’t find any way to route cables. As far as I could tell, the cables plug into the back of the display, which is more convenient than the bottom as with many monitors , but then just stick out without any way to manage them.
Overall, the Modern MD271UL is a good design for the price.
Simple connectivity, confusing controls Mark Coppock / Digital Trends Unlike some of the more expensive and complex monitors we’ve reviewed lately, like the larger Dell UltraSharp 32 4K USB-C Hub monitor , the Modern MD271UL is much simpler in its connectivity. There’s no keyboard-video-mouse (KVM) switch, for example, just connectivity for a single PC. That would be a lot to ask for from a $300 display, but it’s worth noting.
You get a single DisplayPort 1.2a, two HDMI 2.0b, and one USB-C port with 65 watts of power delivery. That will keep a less powerful mainstream laptop charged up but won’t do much with more powerful machines. I didn’t use this connection because MSI didn’t ship a USB-C cable in the box and, as insane as it sounds, I couldn’t find a compatible version in my massive cache of cables. There’s also an audio jack, and no speakers built in.
Mark Coppock / Digital Trends Controlling the monitor is done via hidden buttons alongside the bottom of the monitor on the right-hand side. They’re confusing and take some getting used to, and the outside labels are small and hard to read. I was constantly turning off the monitor when I meant to hit the “enter” button, for example.
Mark Coppock / Digital Trends The on-screen display (OSD) itself isn’t terrible, once you figure out the buttons and navigation. The settings are relatively straightforward and allow for basic changes to image quality, a number of presets, response time and refresh rate, and the usual image settings such as brightness, sharpness, color temperature, and more. Note that the settings aren’t for professionals; for example, the color temperature settings are generic, rather than allowing users to dial in the actual Kelvin setting.
Excellent images for creators, with the right settings Mark Coppock / Digital Trends In an appeal to creators who want wide and accurate colors, MSI touts excellent color gamut support for the Modern MD271UL. It delivers, but you need to know which image preset to choose to get the best results.
The Modern MD271UL has a number of presets, such as User settings, an Eco setting (the default), sRGB, Office, Video, and Black and White. I wasn’t getting the results I expected when I tested the first few presets with my Datacolor SpyderX Elite colorimeter. When set at the default, for example, the monitor only hit 100% of sRGB, 74% of AdobeRGB, and 76% of DCI-P3, with very good accuracy at a DeltaE 1.61 (below the 2.0 threshold for non-demanding creators). That’s just average color gamut coverage and isn’t wide enough for creators. In Office mode, though, the Modern MD271UL managed a much better 100% of sRGB, 89% of AdobeRGB, and 97% of DCI-P3, close to the advertised levels. Unfortunately, accuracy fell to an abysmal DeltaE 12.13. I wasn’t impressed.
When I selected the User preset, however, everything clicked. Colors were wide at 100% of sRGB, 89% of AdobeRGB, and 97% of DCI-P3. Those are more than acceptable for all but the most demanding creative professionals who want AdobeRGB coverage in the 95% range. Accuracy was also exceptional at a DeltaE of 0.93, which is below the 1.0 threshold where the human eye can’t tell a difference in colors. The contrast was very good for an IPS panel at 1,030:1, and brightness was high at 376 nits (above our 300-nit threshold). I ran a calibration on the monitor and it made little difference in the results, meaning it’s well-calibrated at the factory.
Subjectively, the monitor was pleasant to use. It was more than bright enough and the contrast was good enough that working with the usual web and text content was a treat. Also, images and text were sharp at the 4K UHD resolution, and the image was viewable at the usual IPS 178 degrees vertically and horizontally.
With the right settings, the Modern MD271UL will please all but the most demanding creators. And it’s a great display for productivity users as well. Media consumers may be disappointed by the lack of high dynamic range ( HDR ) support, but keep in mind that it’s not bright enough for this feature to really matter. Those users should be looking at other technologies like OLED or Mini-LED.
A sharp, colorful, and affordable monitor with widespread appeal MSI should make it clear which display preset provides the best colors, because the vast majority of users won’t have a colorimeter to test each setting for optimal results. But those results are there for the asking if you simply choose the User setting and leave everything else alone.
Ultimately, the Modern MD271UL is a reasonably priced 27-inch 4K monitor given the excellent colors, brightness, and contrast. You probably won’t find many $300 monitors that can do as well. For that reason, I highly recommend it for anyone looking to do creative or productivity work and who doesn’t need the absolute widest colors for professional work. Simply put, you’ll have to spend a lot more money to do any better.
Editors' Recommendations Ditch your 4K monitor for one of the best 5K displays you can buy We’re finally getting a 4K OLED gaming monitor, and it’s coming soon LG’s latest 4K monitor wants to be your smart home hub The best 4K 120Hz gaming monitors for 2022 Lenovo unleashes an avalanche of monitors, including a 4K 144Hz beast Monitor Reviews Product Reviews Computing Now that GPU prices are actually affordable again, those with powerful GPUs have another monitor to consider. Asus has officially introduced the ROG Strix XG32UQ (via NotebookCheck), a 32-inch 4K gaming monitor with many of the bells and whistles gamers expect of a high-end monitor, including those who own an Xbox Series X or PS5.
Starting off, the panel itself is, of course, a 4K IPS screen offering a 160Hz refresh rate for fluid movement and a 1ms response time for twitchy in-game actions.
Computing Samsung's record-setting and award-winning monitor is finally available for purchase. You can pick up the 4K resolution and 240Hz refresh rate Odyssey Neo G8 now for $1,500 at Samsung.
The specs on this monitor are quite future-proof, and gamer's dream come true, even if most newer games don't support this high of a refresh rate. That's because while other 4K monitors max out at 144Hz, Samsung kicks it all the way up to 244Hz with a 1ms response time for super-fast refresh rates and lag-free gaming. The panel is also curved with a 1,000 radius, which hits the sweet spot when it comes to immersive curved monitors.
Computing Samsung's superfast 240Hz 4K gaming monitor, the Odyssey Neo G8, is available to reserve as of Monday. The peripheral will sell for $1,500 starting June 6. However, those who reserve the monitor beforehand by signing up for Samsung's mailing list, will receive a $50 coupon toward their purchase.
The Samsung Odyssey Neo G8 model G85NB monitor was originally announced at CES 2022 as the world’s first 4K gaming monitor with a 240Hz refresh rate, features that are expected to appeal especially to gamers. Visually, this should reduce tearing and offer more seamless playback when gaming.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
