Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Reviews Brother MFC-J4420DW review This Brother business printer only looks buttoned-up, there’s a playful side too By Ted Needleman Close $170.00 Good value Compact Very good quality on photo paper Excellent connectivity options ADF does not duplex Paper tray can’t handle heavy-weight sheets In terms of marketing, Brother makes only business-oriented printers. Even its less expensive multifunction inkjet models, like the MFC-J4420DW ($170), are designed for Small Office, Home Office users, despite looking like any typical color printer for the home.
But here’s the funny thing: Besides the “Business Center” software that’s included (which has templates you can use for things like business presentations), Brother also includes “Home Center” for making crafty items like greeting cards, placemats, party kits, etc. So, even though Brother calls the J4420DW a “Business Smart” machine, it can clearly do more than just print out Excel spreadsheets and PowerPoint charts.
Building a home office? These Brother and Epson printers are up to 50% off Features and design The black-and-gray J4420DW has an understated design that’s uncluttered. The automatic document feeder (ADF) is recessed when not in use, giving the machine a clean but boxy look. The compact J4420DW is a four-function device (print, copy, scan, and fax), measuring only 22.4 x 10.4 x 15.7 inches and weighing just 20.6 pounds. If you don’t like electronics overwhelming your room’s decor, you can easily hide it behind a cabinet.
The J4420DW delivers strong speed performance. Brother rates it at 18-20 pages per minute; we got 22.
Brother puts the J4420DW’s connection ports beneath the scan bed – somewhat awkward, since you need to lift up the entire scan platen unit, route the cords along the right side of the unit, and plug them into ports that reside in a shallow well. There’s also a USB port, located on the front behind a cover; you can use this port to print photos or documents directly from a flash drive.
Paper handling is a mixed bag. The paper tray, located at the bottom of the unit, holds up to 120 pages of letter- or legal-size paper. It is fairly sensitive to paper weight: Brother states you can use paper weights up to 24 pounds, but we found that some of the premium 24-pound paper we test with tended to jam when fed through this tray, something we didn’t experience with the general-use 20-pound copy paper we use for speed testing.
Fortunately, the J4420DW has a rear paper feed as well. This is a single-page feed, but can accommodate paper sizes up to 11×17 and heavier papers such as the Glossy Photo Paper Brother provided us for image testing. We did not experience any jam problems when feeding heavier media through this rear slot. One unusual thing that initially threw us off is that the paper is always fed in landscape position, regardless of whether or not it’s printed in portrait or landscape mode. Unlike many MFPs we’ve tested, you do have to set the paper type on the front panel when you go from one type to another (for example, from plain paper to photo paper). Most printers and MFPs let you do this solely from the print driver.
The ADF has a capacity for up to 20 letter- or legal-size pages. It does not automatically duplex, which may be an annoyance if you’re trying to make a multipage copy of a two-sided document.
The control panel has a touch-sensitive 2.7-inch LCD that is very easy to navigate. The touchscreen also displays a numeric keypad when that function is required, such as entering the number of copies or a phone number when faxing.
Brother rightly points out that the J4420DW has exceptional connectivity features. It can connect to a computer via USB, Wi-Fi, or wired Ethernet. When connected to a network, you can print to the machine using Apple AirPrint, Google Cloud Print, or Brother’s own iPrintScan; you can also create a Wi-Fi Direct connection between device and printer. You can save different connection settings as shortcuts for future use – a good feature.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Ink cartridges are easy to load, through the chamber on the front. Both high-yield and super high-yield ink cartridges are available, with the high-yield cartridges (both black and color) delivering an estimated 550 pages and costing about $25 for black and $40 for a three-pack of color inks (magenta, cyan, and yellow). Super high-yield cartridges yield about 1,200 pages and cost $30 for black and $23 for each color. Since this isn’t a photo printer, it doesn’t use multiple color inks like Epson’s Expression Photo XP-860.
What’s in the box Brother includes a setup poster, a fairly comprehensive 69-page user’s guide, and an installation CD containing drivers, utilities for scan and fax, and a copy of Nuance’s PaperPort (version 12, which is a couple editions older than the current PaperPort 14; still, a nice adition). You get four starter ink cartridges; the capacity of these is not provided, but we emptied them dry while testing.
Warranty The J4420DW has a two-year warranty.
Setup and performance Setting up the J4420DW is easy. It’s straightforward, although installing all the software took about 20 minutes. For the software, you can install just the print and scan drivers, or the entire program suite. We wish we could cherry pick exactly what we want, but you can always install the entire suite and uninstall what you don’t need afterward.
It’s not a photo printer, but it can produce good-quality prints on photo paper.
We were happy with the J4420DW’s performance in our speed test. Brother rates the unit at up to 20 pages per minute (ppm) in black and up to 18 ppm in color. In our Microsoft Word test (consisting of a four-page monochrome document with a small color logo), we achieved an average speed of 22 pages per minute.
The J4420DW is capable of photo-quality output, but don’t expect to see it on plain paper. In our image test, output on plain paper was completely washed out. The colors, while way under-saturated, were accurate, but quality was nowhere near photographic.
On Brother’s own Glossy Photo Paper, the results were quite different. Except for a few spots where the printed colors were slightly darker than those in our reference prints, for the most part, the J4420DW produced very good photo output.
Whether scanning from the control panel, Nuance PaperPort, or via the TWAIN driver in Picasa, scans were performed quickly, and scanned image quality was very good. Copying, however, was disappointingly slow, but that’s a given for almost any inkjet machine. The feature is there solely as a convenience for when you need to copy a page or two. If you need 50 copies of a 20-page report, do yourself a favor and bring it to a copy shop.
Conclusion Like other printer maker, Brother tries to distinguish between home and business printers, but there really isn’t a lot of difference other than in marketing. The J4420DW is affordable and has very good photo quality output on compatible paper. The capability of printing on 11 x 17-inch paper, using the rear feed, is a nice plus. It offers a wide variety of ways to connect to and print, as well as the ability to scan to a computer, flash memory, or even the Cloud. We had a bit of frustration with paper jams using heavier paper, but our only real complaint is the lack of a duplexing capability on the ADF.
Highs Good value Compact Very good quality on photo paper Excellent connectivity options Lows ADF does not duplex Paper tray can’t handle heavy-weight sheets Editors' Recommendations Best color laser printers for 2023: tested and reviewed Photography Printer Reviews Product Reviews Computing Printers are complicated machines featuring a mix of plastics, metals, electronics, and components, some of which are potentially flagged as hazardous waste. In 2023, it's more important than ever to be kind to the planet, and there are several environmentally safe ways to dispose of a printer.
Even the best printers in the world can reach the end of their life after several years if ink or toner is no longer available. A well-loved printer can suffer from accumulated wear and tear or damage from a catastrophic power surge that's too expensive to repair.
Computing It's Black Friday, which means it is time to give expensive tech products and fun, but expensive, toys a second look. The right Black Friday deals are there to take these categories of products down in price. Where these categories of expensive tech and cool toys collide is the Meta Quest 2, a VR headset, and sure enough, it has a good sale going on over at Amazon right now. Normally $300, its price has dropped by $51 down to just $249, one of the best VR headset Black Friday deals we've seen. The really good news? This deal is here now, so you don't have to wait to buy it like you will with the rest of your post Thanksgiving shopping. In fact, if you tap the button below and buy now, and with a little shipping luck, you might have it by Thanksgiving to play with your family.
Why you should buy the Meta Quest 2 The Meta Quest 2, which dominated Steam last year, is a VR headset that gives a full 360 field of view, allows you to experience 3D positional audio, and has over 500 compatible titles between gaming, fitness, and other experiences. If you're a Twitch viewer, you may recognize it from streamers playing Meta Quest 2 games like Beat Saber or the somewhat ironically humorous Among Us VR. It refreshes at 120Hz and gives each eye a view of 1832 x 1920p.
Computing The G-series of gaming laptops from Dell represent a balance between performance and affordability. While it is positioned below the Alienware gaming laptop lineup, it manages to incorporate some of the standout features from its more expensive counterpart. It takes inspiration from its pricier cousin in terms of design and build quality, and also offers commendable thermal and graphics performance.
The company officially unveiled the 2023 G-series back in January at CES, and if you have decided to purchase a new Dell gaming laptop, then we recommend going for the latest G16 7630.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
