Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Tight on space? You still have room for a printer — if it’s the Brother MFC-J1205W By Alan Truly Close $129.00 Fast printing for an inkjet Low price for an all-in-one Relatively low cost per page Up to a year of ink included Fast scanning Page yield estimation Photos lack contrast and saturation Photo scans require an extra step Difficult to set up envelope prints Brother’s MFC-J1205W INKvestment Tank is an all-in-one printer with unique features that set it apart from competing solutions. Most notable is the remarkably compact size, but Brother also takes a different approach to inkjet tank technology.
Design Printing performance Special features Software and compatibility Price Is this the printer for you? I’ll delve into the details of the cartridge design, size benefits, print performance and ease of use — and how each affects the long-term value.
Design The Brother MFC-J1205W’s off-white color looks nice in a home office.
Alan Truly / Digital Trends Brother’s MFC-J1205W INKvestment Tank blends in well with home decor. It’s an unobtrusive off-white and takes up very little space compared to most all-in-one printers.
The MFC-J1205W is one of the few all-in-ones you can place on a shelf. It’s a fairly standard 17.1 inches wide, only 14.1 inches deep, and just 6.3 inches tall. Weighing 12.3 pounds, it’s also lightweight and easy to handle.
Many small printers will fit in tight spaces, but aren’t really usable if there’s no room to access a rear-mounted paper tray or output bin. The Brother MFC-J1205W has both on the front, so you only need space for the printer. The only exception would be for a rare paper jam.
The removable paper tray allows access to the rear tray for photos. I only needed to open the tray halfway to insert letter or legal paper.
Brother didn’t give the MFC-J1205W a screen, which could explain one annoying issue with this printer that I’ll cover later. For most uses, the lack of a display isn’t a problem.
Five buttons provide everything you need to switch paper size, enable Wi-Fi, turn the printer on, and make a mono or color copy. That simplifies operation and leaves more complicated tasks for the mobile app or a computer.
Printing performance Brother MFC-J1205W’s photo prints lack saturation and contrast, even on the best quality setting.
Tracey Truly / Digital Trends Brother’s MFC-J1205W INKvestment Tank is the official name of this printer, but it doesn’t have the same type of tank as competitors. I still had to install cartridges. For the lowest running costs, consider other inkjet tank printers or laser printers.
These are big cartridges with a substantial ink supply, but I’ll need to order replacement cartridges when ink runs low. That means Brother’s INKvestment Tank is less economical than competing tank printers that use inexpensive ink bottles.
Document quality is good, producing crisp text and nice color graphics without banding. The black-and-white print speed is impressive at 16 pages per minute (ppm). Color documents are quick also, with a throughput of 9 ppm.
Photo prints are sharp, but lacking in color saturation and contrast. Switching the quality to fine didn’t help with vibrancy or black levels. Pictures look good, but a bit washed-out, even on high-quality, glossy photo paper.
Surprisingly, printing pictures on plain paper yielded results that were better than usual for a budget inkjet. Perhaps Brother optimized for uncoated paper.
Special features Scanning with the Brother MFC-J1205W is fast, but photos require an extra step.
Tracey Truly / Digital Trends As an all-in-one printer, the Brother MFC-J1205W includes scan and copy features. Both are quick and work well.
Scanning is very fast, and document quality is good. If Brother had included an automatic document feeder, the MFC-J1205W could easily process over a dozen pages per minute. Since it’s a flatbed, I have to scan one page at a time.
For photos, I was initially disappointed by the extreme contrast. There’s an option after scanning to switch to pictures, which restores exposure to normal levels. If I needed to scan a stack of photos, that would become annoying.
Software and compatibility The Brother MFC-J1205W’s large ink cartridges are installed.
Tracey Truly / Digital Trends When setting up the Brother MFC-J1205W INKvestment Tank printer, ink cartridges and paper must be installed first. From there, the mobile app makes quick work of connecting to Wi-Fi.
Like most major manufacturers, Brother printers are compatible with Windows PCs, Mac computers, iPhones, iPads, and Android devices. ChromeOS and Linux are also supported.
Scanning works from my iPhone, and I can print directly from the Photos app with automatic borderless printing. The Brother mobile app provides more control. I can crop, rotate, and resize. My Pixel 6 works also.
The only problem with mobile printing was envelopes, a notable concern if using the Brother MFC-J1205W for a home business. The printer kept giving a paper size error and refusing to print. I fussed with the paper tray, and the settings but had to turn to Brother’s support page to find the solution.
Brother buried the custom paper size option in the web portal. I had to look at the back of the printer to get the password, log in on a browser, and then find the custom paper option to choose Com-10 for a business envelope.
That’s a hassle and something that Brother should add to the mobile app. If the printer had a screen, the paper size option would probably be accessible in menu settings. When using a computer, I can simply select a No. 10 envelope from a drop-down menu.
Screenshots show Brother’s friendly page yield estimates.
Digital Trends Brother redeems itself somewhat with a very thoughtful option in its Mobile Connect app. When I check ink levels, it shows the number of pages remaining for each color.
The default estimate uses ISO/IEC 24711 standards to calculate how many pages I can print. With a couple of taps, it’s easy to switch to usage-based estimates that will become more accurate as I use the printer. In testing, I printed more photos, so cartridge life estimates were much lower than with a normal mix of photo and document printing.
Brother’s page yield feature takes the guesswork out of cartridge reorders. More printer manufacturers should use this method of reporting the remaining ink supply.
Price The Brother MFC-J1205W INKvestment Tank printer has a low upfront cost of $129. For a small, fast, and mostly easy-to-use all-in-one printer, that’s a bargain.
Since Brother calls it a tank printer, I expect very low ink costs. But the MFC-J1205W uses large cartridges with an estimated yield of 750 pages for both black and color. Some competing tank printers provide thousands of pages per bottle.
That difference shows in cost per page. For monochrome documents, the average is 3 cents. When printing in color, that doubles to 6 cents per page. That’s a good value compared to most cartridge-based inkjet printers ,but much more expensive than a true tank printer.
The Brother MFC-J1205W includes full-size ink cartridges: one black and three colors. If you primarily print documents, the ink should last through 750 black-and-white and 750 color documents.
If you print photos, ink levels will drop much faster. Brother estimates the MFC-J1205W’s included ink supply will last up to a year.
Is this the printer for you? The Brother MFC-J1205W INKvestment Tank printer has a small footprint.
Alan Truly / Digital Trends For a home office, the Brother MFC-J1205W will work well. It’s a particularly nice option if space is limited. You can put this printer on a deep shelf or right up against a wall with easy access to the paper tray and output bin at the front.
Beyond the difficulty of setting up envelopes as a custom paper type, ease of use was good overall, and most things worked as expected with minimal effort.
If you need photographic prints or photo scans, you’ll be happier with a more versatile (and expensive) all-in-one or a printer designed for high-quality photos with the most accurate colors.
In terms of value, the Brother MFC-J1205W INKvestment Tank printer finds a comfortable middle ground between low-cost inkjets and tank printers. Brother’s MFC-J1205W INKvestment Tank earned a place on our list of the best cheap printers because it offers good functionality for a low price, with low running costs.
Editors' Recommendations The best all-in-one printers you can buy in 2023 Printer Reviews Product Reviews Computing Lenovo is probably one of the best-known laptop makers, especially since they have an incredibly wide variety of them to choose from. That also means they have an excellent selection of gaming laptops, so you can hone in on something that fits your budget. That's especially the case with the ongoing early Black Friday deals that are seeing laptops being cut down in price across the board. That said, Lenovo's selection of gaming laptops is too wide for us to include all their active deals here, so we've selected some of our favorites for both AMD and Intel CPUs. Also, if you're not sure of where to start, you should check out our list of best Lenovo laptops for some good options.
Best Lenovo Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals (AMD) Lenovo has a wider selection of AMD gaming laptops, which is great if you want to go with something AMD-powered. Unfortunately, there aren't any good deals on Lenovo laptops with both an AMD CPU and GPU, but the selection below is wide enough to pick something that fits your needs a bit better. And, if you want something with an RTX 4090 on a budget, then the AMD version is probably the cheapest for Lenovo.
Computing Printers are complicated machines featuring a mix of plastics, metals, electronics, and components, some of which are potentially flagged as hazardous waste. In 2023, it's more important than ever to be kind to the planet, and there are several environmentally safe ways to dispose of a printer.
Even the best printers in the world can reach the end of their life after several years if ink or toner is no longer available. A well-loved printer can suffer from accumulated wear and tear or damage from a catastrophic power surge that's too expensive to repair.
Computing It's Black Friday, which means it is time to give expensive tech products and fun, but expensive, toys a second look. The right Black Friday deals are there to take these categories of products down in price. Where these categories of expensive tech and cool toys collide is the Meta Quest 2, a VR headset, and sure enough, it has a good sale going on over at Amazon right now. Normally $300, its price has dropped by $51 down to just $249, one of the best VR headset Black Friday deals we've seen. The really good news? This deal is here now, so you don't have to wait to buy it like you will with the rest of your post Thanksgiving shopping. In fact, if you tap the button below and buy now, and with a little shipping luck, you might have it by Thanksgiving to play with your family.
Why you should buy the Meta Quest 2 The Meta Quest 2, which dominated Steam last year, is a VR headset that gives a full 360 field of view, allows you to experience 3D positional audio, and has over 500 compatible titles between gaming, fitness, and other experiences. If you're a Twitch viewer, you may recognize it from streamers playing Meta Quest 2 games like Beat Saber or the somewhat ironically humorous Among Us VR. It refreshes at 120Hz and gives each eye a view of 1832 x 1920p.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
