Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Reviews Brother MFC-J5520DW review This Brother printer’s Business Smarts will boost your home’s IQ too By Ted Needleman Close $200.00 11 × 17 inch print capability Very good output quality Super High Yield ink cartridges available 250 sheet paper tray capacity No automatic duplexing on ADF PaperPort is older version Somewhat pricey for a home MFP Awkward cable routing Here’s a quirk of the tech world: Many printers and MFPs aimed at small businesses are actually more appropriate for home use than those specifically meant as home models. There are a number of reasons for this. One is durability: “Home” printers are designed for casual use, and not really built to do a lot of printing on a continuous basis. Yet many homes have multiple users and run numerous pages through a printer every week.
If this description fits your family, it also means you’re going through a lot of ink on a regular basis. “Business” printers often have higher page yield cartridges than those meant for home use.
How much is printer ink, and what’s the most economical printer type? The best all-in-one printers you can buy in 2023 Walmart slices price on Canon ImageClass MF232W Wi-Fi laser printer So don’t be fooled by the “Business” in the $199 Brother Business Smart MFC-J5520DW: It’s the perfect example of a business printer you should be using at home.
Features and design The MFC-J5520DW is rather plain-looking, a rectangular black cube with a silver accent stripe on the front panel. The auto document feeder (ADF) is recessed into the top panel and unfolds when needed, and the entire top panel lifts up to expose the scan platen. The ADF has a 35-sheet capacity.
This printer doesn’t seem particularly compact, at 19.3 × 13.6 × 9.4 inches with the output tray retracted, and weighing 25.5 pounds. That is, until you consider that the MFC-J55420DW is capable of printing on A3/ledger size paper — the jumbo, 11 × 17 inch stuff. This size paper can be fed via a rear multipurpose input tray that folds out from the rear panel with an 80-sheet capacity, or from the MFP’s unusual paper tray on the unit’s front bottom.
When retracted, up to 250 sheets of letter-sized paper are inserted in landscape mode. To print on legal or ledger sized paper, the paper drawer extends lengthwise, and paper is fed in portrait mode. Considering that the output tray, which is mounted directly over the paper tray, needs to be pulled out to catch the printed pages, this change for larger media isn’t a problem.
The MFC-J5520DW does not provide duplexing in scan, fax, or copy mode, but does have an automatic duplexer to let you print on both sides of a sheet of paper.
This printer doesn’t seem particularly compact, until you realize it’s capable of printing on the jumbo, 11 × 17 inch stuff.
To the left of the output slot, a small hinged door covers sockets for media cards including SD and Compact Flash and a USB plug for a thumb drive. On the right side of the output slot is a swing-away panel that covers the slots where the ink cartridges are installed. The standard ink cartridges print approximately 550 pages (black and color), while high yield cartridges are also available, producing up to 2,500 pages in black and 1,200 pages in color. The standard capacity cartridges cost about $13 for the color and $20 for the black, while the Super High Yield cartridges cost about $25 for color and $40 for the black cartridge.
You control local operations such as fax, copy, and scan from the WFC-J5520DW’s large, 3.7-inch color touchscreen. To the right of the screen are two icons — a home button and an indicator that tells you that the unit is busy performing an operation.
What’s in the box As with most of the MFPs and printers we’ve tested, there isn’t a lot in the box. There’s the unit itself with a connected power cord, four starter ink cartridges, and a CD with print and scan drivers for Windows and the Mac OS X, as well as a copy of PaperPort 12SE. Brother provides both a setup poster and a more detailed 82-page user’s guide. The guide covers the MFC-J5520DW as well as two additional models, but you won’t find it difficult or confusing to figure out what does and doesn’t apply to your model.
Setup and performance Setting up the MFC-J5520DW was, for the most part, quick and easy. We did encounter two minor annoyances, however. The first is that you can install just the print driver, but if you want the scanner driver, you need to do a complete install that includes PaperPort. The PC we use for testing has all vendor software and drivers wiped after each review, but we do have a newer version of PaperPort (v14) installed on several other computers; a complete install would have overwritten v14 with an older version. Humph.
Giuliano Correia/Digital Trends Our second complaint is the weird way Brother makes you route cabling. The jacks for all of the connections — USB, Ethernet, and phone (for the fax) — are internal, requiring that you lift the hinged top half of the device to insert the cable and then route the cable through a molded channel. This is awkward, to say the least, and cost the MFC-J5520DW points in our rating.
Other than these points, our install went well. Once you remove the packing tape and install the starter ink cartridges, you need to wait several minutes for the printer to prime the ink, after which you can proceed to connect the device via USB, wired Ethernet, or Wi-Fi. The MFC-J5520DW offers WPS for Wi-Fi setup, which is a great time saver. If your router supports this connection method, you can be up and connected in under a minute. Also offered are Wi-Fi Direct, so you can connect directly to a Wi-Fi enabled device, and compatibility with Apple AirPrint, Google Cloud Print, and Brother’s own iPrint & Scan.
The weird way Brother makes you route cabling is awkward, to say the least.
Brother rates the MFC-J5520 as printing up to 20 pages-per-minute in black and 20 ppm in color with default driver settings. In our testing with the ISO Word document set (four monochrome pages with a small color logo on each page) we didn’t get close to that output, with an average speed of 16.5 ppm. That’s still not bad, however.
Image quality, as with many inkjet printers, depends on what paper you use. With standard copy paper and even Hammermill Premium Inkjet and Laser paper, colors were somewhat washed out and undersaturated. That’s common in our testing, as the ink wicks down into the surface of the paper. When printing our test images using the BP71 Premium Glossy Photo Paper that Brother provided, images were bright, vivid, and accurate.
Copying was rather slow, which is to be expected with an inkjet given its moderate output speed. Toss in the fact that, since the ADF doesn’t duplex, to copy two-sided documents you’ll have to turn the copies over (as well as the output) to scan and print the second side. That gets old pretty quick. We also tested scanning, which is a snap. You can scan within PaperPort or alternatively to the Cloud or email.
Warranty The MFC-J5520DW offers a two-year limited warranty and unlimited phone support.
The DT Accessory Pack Up your game and the get the most out of your gear with the following extras, hand-picked by our editors: Brother 4 × 6 High Gloss Paper ($3) High-gloss paper: Make your photos shine with the right paper.
Netgear Nighthawk AC1900 Dual Band Wi-Fi Gigabit Router ($182) What, your router doesn’t do WPS? Upgrade, my friend. Trust us on this one.
Brother – LC205CL XL 3-Pack High-Yield Ink Cartridges ($64) You’’ll need ’em eventually. Might as well get the high-yield ink pack now, right? Conclusion The MFC-J5520 is one of Brother’s “Business Smart Plus Series” models. We have no doubt that the MFP would work nicely in an SMB or home office environment. But while a bit more expensive than many home-oriented models, we think the MFC-J5520DW will be very suitable for many households that do a lot of printing and occasional larger documents or crafts up to 11 × 17.
Highs 11 × 17 inch print capability Very good output quality Super High Yield ink cartridges available 250 sheet paper tray capacity Lows No automatic duplexing on ADF PaperPort is older version Somewhat pricey for a home MFP Awkward cable routing Editors' Recommendations Best color laser printers for 2023: tested and reviewed What is a monochrome printer, and do you need one? Meta Quest Pro reviewers came away impressed by these three things The new HP OfficeJet Pro’s smart app cuts your time spent scanning in half Photography Printer Reviews Product Reviews Computing Lenovo is probably one of the best-known laptop makers, especially since they have an incredibly wide variety of them to choose from. That also means they have an excellent selection of gaming laptops, so you can hone in on something that fits your budget. That's especially the case with the ongoing early Black Friday deals that are seeing laptops being cut down in price across the board. That said, Lenovo's selection of gaming laptops is too wide for us to include all their active deals here, so we've selected some of our favorites for both AMD and Intel CPUs. Also, if you're not sure of where to start, you should check out our list of best Lenovo laptops for some good options.
Best Lenovo Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals (AMD) Lenovo has a wider selection of AMD gaming laptops, which is great if you want to go with something AMD-powered. Unfortunately, there aren't any good deals on Lenovo laptops with both an AMD CPU and GPU, but the selection below is wide enough to pick something that fits your needs a bit better. And, if you want something with an RTX 4090 on a budget, then the AMD version is probably the cheapest for Lenovo.
Computing Printers are complicated machines featuring a mix of plastics, metals, electronics, and components, some of which are potentially flagged as hazardous waste. In 2023, it's more important than ever to be kind to the planet, and there are several environmentally safe ways to dispose of a printer.
Even the best printers in the world can reach the end of their life after several years if ink or toner is no longer available. A well-loved printer can suffer from accumulated wear and tear or damage from a catastrophic power surge that's too expensive to repair.
Computing It's Black Friday, which means it is time to give expensive tech products and fun, but expensive, toys a second look. The right Black Friday deals are there to take these categories of products down in price. Where these categories of expensive tech and cool toys collide is the Meta Quest 2, a VR headset, and sure enough, it has a good sale going on over at Amazon right now. Normally $300, its price has dropped by $51 down to just $249, one of the best VR headset Black Friday deals we've seen. The really good news? This deal is here now, so you don't have to wait to buy it like you will with the rest of your post Thanksgiving shopping. In fact, if you tap the button below and buy now, and with a little shipping luck, you might have it by Thanksgiving to play with your family.
Why you should buy the Meta Quest 2 The Meta Quest 2, which dominated Steam last year, is a VR headset that gives a full 360 field of view, allows you to experience 3D positional audio, and has over 500 compatible titles between gaming, fitness, and other experiences. If you're a Twitch viewer, you may recognize it from streamers playing Meta Quest 2 games like Beat Saber or the somewhat ironically humorous Among Us VR. It refreshes at 120Hz and gives each eye a view of 1832 x 1920p.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
