Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Reviews Brother MFC-J885DW review Brother's J885DW comes loaded with features, without a high price By Ted Needleman Close $150.00 Affordable price Compact Very good output, speeds Numerous connectivity options Auto feeder does not duplex Small-capacity paper tray Brother targets its printers toward small business and home office owners, but the low-cost MFC-J885DW ($149 list, $99 on the street as of this posting) hits all the points for any budget user. It’s a compact, four-function multifunction printer (MFP, with scan, copy, fax, and print) that doesn’t have a lot of bells and whistles, but it has really good output quality, reasonable print speeds, and duplex printing – things that really matter.
Features and design The MFC-J885DW is a perfect choice for someone who is looking for a nondescript compact MFP. With the 20-sheet automatic document feeder (ADF) closed, the whole thing becomes an understated black box. The J885DW measures 18.8 x 9.8 x 17.9 inches and weighs 16.8 pounds (svelte for an MFP), and there’s a 2.7-inch color touchscreen LCD on the front for navigation and standalone functionality.
The J885DW excels in connectivity. Besides USB and Wi-Fi, there’s Ethernet (rare at this price point) and NFC tap-to-print for compatible smartphones and tablets, which are mainly Android devices at the moment. For mobile devices that don’t have NFC, the MFP supports Apple AirPrint and Google Print, Brother’s iPrint & Scan, and Wi-Fi Direct. You can also scan to and print from many cloud services including Facebook , Picasa, Flicker, Dropbox, Box, and others. Brother also offers Cloud Apps as well as its online Creative Center for additional print functions.
Since it’s a business-centric, four-in-one machine, there’s a telephone jack for the fax. In a weird design choice, the Ethernet and USB ports are placed inside the machine, and are only accessibly by lifting the entire hinged scanner unit. Most users, particular in the home, would most likely utilize Wi-Fi.
We were pleased with both performance and print quality.
The J885DW has several paper feeds. One is the main paper drawer at the bottom, which holds a paltry 100 sheets of paper (up to legal size). There is a separate feed on the top of this drawer, for up to 20 sheets of small-format photo paper (up to 4 x 6 inches). A rear paper feed is available for heavy media and specialty paper, such as card stock; this feeder is used solely in single-sheet mode. The output support tray, for catching printed documents, has a capacity for 50 sheets.
Also located on the front panel are two flip-down covers. The one on the left hides the USB port (used for flash memory and PictBridge-compatible cameras) and SD card slot, while the one on the right side reveals the ink cartridges.
There are two different ink cartridge capacities available. The LC201 standard-capacity cartridges deliver about 260 pages, and cost $12.49 each. Black cartridges usually have a different page yield and price, but the J885DW’s has the same yield and price as the color cartridges (cyan, magenta, and yellow). The higher yield LC2013 cartridges deliver about 550 pages, and cost $24.49 each. There isn’t a big difference in yield between buying two LC201 cartridges and a single LC203; the advantage in buying high-yield cartridges is you don’t have to change them as often. If you know you make a lot of prints, however, you may want to consider getting high-yield three-pack, which will save you some money.
What’s included As with most of the MFPs and printers, the J885DW’s packaging isn’t overflowing with goodies. There’s the MFP itself, a box of starter ink cartridges, a setup poster, a 71-page user’s guide, and a setup CD containing drivers and other software. A whopping 645-page manual is available for download via Brother’s website. Not included but available is access to Brother’s Creative Center, an online portal to craft and business projects. The power cord is permanently attached.
Warranty The J885DW has a two-year limited warranty.
Performance and use Setup is straightforward: Pop in the CD to install scanner and printer drivers for either Windows or Mac. If your machine lacks an optical drive, you can always download the drivers from Brother’s website or have the OS search for them. If using the installation software, you’ll be prompted to hook up the USB cable (which we did for our tests) or connect via Wi-Fi, and install the ink cartridges. During installation you can choose to install Nuance PaperPort 12SE (Windows) or Presto! PageManager (Mac) text-scanning-and-conversion software. The MFP primes the inks for several minutes, and then you’re good to go.
Bill Roberson/Digital Trends We are pleased with the MFC-J885DW’s performance. Brother rates print speed at 12 pages per minute (ppm) in monochrome and 10ppm in color. We use a subset of the ISO test with a Word document set for monochrome speed testing and an Excel document set for color testing. With the Word documents, we averaged just under 14ppm – a bit faster than Brother’s rating. With the Excel documents, our print speed dropped to 8ppm. Averaged out, the MFC-J885DW achieved almost 11ppm, which isn’t bad for an inexpensive four-function MFP.
The J885DW balances price with useful features and good output.
We are also happy with the MFP’s image quality, thanks in part to the use of three separate color ink tanks, versus a single tri-color tank. With Brother’s Glossy Photo Paper, colors are vibrant and accurate; the machine isn’t marketed as a photo printer, so this is a good thing. When we switched to Hammermill Digital Color Copy paper, the output was under-saturated, but that is to be expected with an inkjet printer. Still, for a school or business report, the output is very satisfactory.
Very few inkjets function well as a copier. The vendors throw this in as a convenience, and the J885DW is no exception. Copying 10 pages of the Excel spreadsheet was torturous. Granted, the pages had fairly high coverage, but we gave up the test when only five pages had been ejected at the eight-minute mark. For home users who need to make the occasional copy, this isn’t an issue. It’s in a small business environment where you might see this as a hurdle.
However, scanning to a file or over the Internet to our Dropbox account was much faster, and scans were high quality with accurate colors. While the J885DW handles duplex printing, it does not offer this capability on the ADF Conclusion The DT Accessory Pack Brother high gloss Inkjet paper, 20k ($4) You can print photos with this business printer when using Brother glossy paper.
OFC Express printer stand ($51) Although the printer is compact, using a stand helps free up space for office supplies.
Brother 3-Pack High-Yield Ink Cartridge ($60) Individually, the high-yield tanks don’t offer cost savings. It’s better to buy them as a three-pack.
Brother makes some really nice printers for small businesses and home offices, and the J885DW fits nicely in either role as a budget MFP. Although Brother doesn’t market toward general home use, the J885DW also provides very good output quality for photos and school reports as well. The ability to send and receive faxes will be attractive to some users, but, in a digital world, that’s icing on the cake. When you combine its features, connectivity options, and affordable price, the J885DW is one to look at if you are in the market for a new MFP or replacing an existing unit.
Highs Affordable price Compact Very good output, speeds Numerous connectivity options Lows Auto feeder does not duplex Small-capacity paper tray Photography Printer Reviews Product Reviews Computing Printers are complicated machines featuring a mix of plastics, metals, electronics, and components, some of which are potentially flagged as hazardous waste. In 2023, it's more important than ever to be kind to the planet, and there are several environmentally safe ways to dispose of a printer.
Even the best printers in the world can reach the end of their life after several years if ink or toner is no longer available. A well-loved printer can suffer from accumulated wear and tear or damage from a catastrophic power surge that's too expensive to repair.
Computing It's Black Friday, which means it is time to give expensive tech products and fun, but expensive, toys a second look. The right Black Friday deals are there to take these categories of products down in price. Where these categories of expensive tech and cool toys collide is the Meta Quest 2, a VR headset, and sure enough, it has a good sale going on over at Amazon right now. Normally $300, its price has dropped by $51 down to just $249, one of the best VR headset Black Friday deals we've seen. The really good news? This deal is here now, so you don't have to wait to buy it like you will with the rest of your post Thanksgiving shopping. In fact, if you tap the button below and buy now, and with a little shipping luck, you might have it by Thanksgiving to play with your family.
Why you should buy the Meta Quest 2 The Meta Quest 2, which dominated Steam last year, is a VR headset that gives a full 360 field of view, allows you to experience 3D positional audio, and has over 500 compatible titles between gaming, fitness, and other experiences. If you're a Twitch viewer, you may recognize it from streamers playing Meta Quest 2 games like Beat Saber or the somewhat ironically humorous Among Us VR. It refreshes at 120Hz and gives each eye a view of 1832 x 1920p.
Computing The G-series of gaming laptops from Dell represent a balance between performance and affordability. While it is positioned below the Alienware gaming laptop lineup, it manages to incorporate some of the standout features from its more expensive counterpart. It takes inspiration from its pricier cousin in terms of design and build quality, and also offers commendable thermal and graphics performance.
The company officially unveiled the 2023 G-series back in January at CES, and if you have decided to purchase a new Dell gaming laptop, then we recommend going for the latest G16 7630.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
