Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? It’s priced for a home office, but this Canon all-in-one prints like a pro By Alan Truly Close $210.00 Fast printing, scanning, document feeding 3.5-inch touchscreen Generous starter toner, pre-installed Low cost per page Taller than most all-in-ones Grainy photos Canon’s imageClass MF275dw is an all-in-one plus fax that boasts the reliability and efficiency of a black-and-white laser printer and surprisingly quick speed at a budget-friendly price.
Canon imageClass MF275dw: design Canon imageClass MF275dw: printing performance Canon imageClass MF275dw: special features Canon imageClass MF275dw: software and compatibility Canon imageClass MF275dw: value Is this the printer for you? If you’re looking for a top-rated all-in-one printer and chose a monochrome laser printer, it’s clear you want to optimize productivity. That means the printer should have a low cost per page, ease of use, and good print speed, without sacrificing quality.
Building a home office? These Brother and Epson printers are up to 50% off The new HP OfficeJet Pro’s smart app cuts your time spent scanning in half I took my time testing the imageClass MF275dw’s printing, scanning, and copying to ensure it offers good value as well as a budget-friendly price.
Canon imageClass MF275dw: design The Canon imageClass MF275dw is tall but has a small footprint, Alan Truly / Digital Trends The Canon imageClass MF275dw is a nice-looking office printer in classic black. It has rounded corners and a satiny sheen, with a center panel that can be angled up for use while standing. It features a six-line monochrome 3.5-inch touchscreen, a number pad for fax use, and clearly marked buttons to simplify operation.
You’ll never have to wonder when it goes to sleep because an energy-saver button lights up at the top right to let you know. Touch that button or the home button to wake the printer for scanning or copying.
It looks big initially because of its 14.4-inch height, but it has a small footprint at 15.4 by 14.6 inches. With the paper tray extended, the depth increases to 19 inches. Weight is just 24.7 pounds, so it’s easy to set up and move around.
The line in and out phone plugs for fax use are at the right rear, which makes them accessible but convenient for routing. The USB plug is at the back.
The paper tray and output bin both live on the front of the printer. An automatic document feeder (ADF), and flatbed scanner up top are well thought out and easy to access.
Canon imageClass MF275dw: printing performance Canon’s imageClass MF275dw has quick and efficient duplex printing.
Photo by Tracey Truly The Canon imageClass MF275dw is very fast for a low-cost printer.
Laser printers are typically faster than inkjets , but this printer is really quick. Thirty pages per minute equate to two seconds per page. It’s almost as if I blink, and the page is there, waiting for me to pick up.
It’s not instantaneous, but the first page takes just 5.3 seconds, then kicks into high gear for the rest of the document. If you’re in a rush on a large print job, that speed will make a significant difference.
Text quality is excellent, even at the default speed. The Canon imageClass MF275dw is a great printer for documents and labels. It can print on a variety of paper and envelope sizes. It can also handle weights of up to 65-pound bond, a thick paper used for covers.
The imageClass MF275dw has several print adjustments that can help.
Photo by Tracey Truly There are several menu options to fine-tune printing, and setting the imageClass MF275dw to high-quality and adjusting density to compensate for dark images helps with black-and-white photo prints. Still, pictures are noticeably grainy.
Canon imageClass MF275dw: special features Canon’s imageClass MF275dw has a large touchscreen and adjustable control panel.
Alan Truly / Digital Trends The Canon imageClass MF275dw is an all-in-one laser printer with fax capability. Operation is quick and intuitive with the large touchscreen, via a computer, or the mobile app.
Right out of the box, the starter toner cartridge was pre-installed and ready to print. Setup was easy using the large touchscreen. Once Wi-Fi was connected, all of my devices quickly recognized the Canon imageClass MF275dw.
The flatbed scanner feels like an office copier, with robust hinges that move smoothly and without noise. The document feeder and printer are hassle-free even when copying two-sided documents.
Canon’s imageClass MF275dw has a reliable automatic feeder that can copy double-sided documents.
Photo by Tracey Truly Everything about copying and scanning is speedy and efficient. It just works. That’s not always true of budget all-in-one printers. Canon didn’t cut corners on the imageClass MF275dw, and the ADF is very reliable.
I couldn’t test the fax feature since I don’t have a landline. If you don’t need a fax, you can save $10 by choosing the imageClass MF273dw. It’s nearly the same printer but lacks fax capability and has a slightly smaller five-line display.
Canon imageClass MF275dw: software and compatibility The Canon Print mobile app includes a smartphone document scan feature.
Digital Trends The imageClass MF275dw works with the Canon Print app, which is available for iOS and Android.
 It makes it easy to print or scan to your mobile device wirelessly.
There’s also a smartphone copy feature to capture a document, correct the perspective, and print without visiting the printer. However, you must connect to the same Wi-Fi network to send the data to the printer.
The iPhone and Android phones have plenty of document scanner apps , but it’s nice that Canon included one for convenience.
After installing Canon’s drivers and optional utilities, printing and scanning from Windows and macOS is simple. There’s a USB port if you prefer a direct connection. If you use a USB cable, you can enable printer sharing in Windows to access the imageClass MF275dw from other devices.
Canon imageClass MF275dw: value The imageClass MF275dw’s toner is easily accessible and lasts a long time.
Alan Truly / Digital Trends At $210, the Canon imageClass MF275dw has a nice, low price while delivering great value. It’s also a quick, efficient printer with fast scanning and copying capabilities.
As a black-and-white laser printer, the imageClass MF275dw’s running costs are minimal. It comes with enough toner to print 700 pages. When it is time for a replacement, the standard cartridge provides 1,200 pages for $51, while the high-capacity cartridge lasts up to 2,500 pages for $84.
Toner costs range from $0.03 to $0.04 per page. That means the imageClass MF275dw starts at a low price and keeps providing good value over time.
Is this the printer for you? The Canon imageClass MF275dw printer is a good choice if you’re working from home, and the performance is good enough for a small office.
If you need color, an inkjet or color laser printer would be necessary. We have guides to help you find the best color laser and best inkjet printers.
Document quality is excellent, but pictures will look grainy. Everything about this all-in-one is fast and easy. Scanning, copying, and printing work quickly and with no fuss to simplify a heavy workload.
We recommend the Canon imageClass MF275dw for anyone looking for a low-cost all-in-one printer with a built-in fax feature.
Editors' Recommendations The best all-in-one printers you can buy in 2023 Walmart slices price on Canon ImageClass MF232W Wi-Fi laser printer Printer Reviews Product Reviews Computing Printers are complicated machines featuring a mix of plastics, metals, electronics, and components, some of which are potentially flagged as hazardous waste. In 2023, it's more important than ever to be kind to the planet, and there are several environmentally safe ways to dispose of a printer.
Even the best printers in the world can reach the end of their life after several years if ink or toner is no longer available. A well-loved printer can suffer from accumulated wear and tear or damage from a catastrophic power surge that's too expensive to repair.
Computing It's Black Friday, which means it is time to give expensive tech products and fun, but expensive, toys a second look. The right Black Friday deals are there to take these categories of products down in price. Where these categories of expensive tech and cool toys collide is the Meta Quest 2, a VR headset, and sure enough, it has a good sale going on over at Amazon right now. Normally $300, its price has dropped by $51 down to just $249, one of the best VR headset Black Friday deals we've seen. The really good news? This deal is here now, so you don't have to wait to buy it like you will with the rest of your post Thanksgiving shopping. In fact, if you tap the button below and buy now, and with a little shipping luck, you might have it by Thanksgiving to play with your family.
Why you should buy the Meta Quest 2 The Meta Quest 2, which dominated Steam last year, is a VR headset that gives a full 360 field of view, allows you to experience 3D positional audio, and has over 500 compatible titles between gaming, fitness, and other experiences. If you're a Twitch viewer, you may recognize it from streamers playing Meta Quest 2 games like Beat Saber or the somewhat ironically humorous Among Us VR. It refreshes at 120Hz and gives each eye a view of 1832 x 1920p.
Computing The G-series of gaming laptops from Dell represent a balance between performance and affordability. While it is positioned below the Alienware gaming laptop lineup, it manages to incorporate some of the standout features from its more expensive counterpart. It takes inspiration from its pricier cousin in terms of design and build quality, and also offers commendable thermal and graphics performance.
The company officially unveiled the 2023 G-series back in January at CES, and if you have decided to purchase a new Dell gaming laptop, then we recommend going for the latest G16 7630.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
