Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Reviews Canon Maxify MB5320 review Canon's Maxify workhorse printer proves it's serious about business.
By Ted Needleman Close $400.00 Large color touchscreen Single-pass duplex scanning Fast performance Excellent prints Expensive Canon has a variety of printers that meet the needs of different users – from the home consumer to graphic designers and office workers. But what sector the company feels it hasn’t addressed well enough are small office/home office (SOHO) and small business (SMB) users. The company has a line of Pixma models designed for this market, but it decided what it really needs is a high-performance workhorse inkjet machine that offers large paper capacities, ink yields, and cloud connectivity. Enter the new Maxify series.
At $400, Maxify’s MB5320 multifunction printer (MFP) – the flagship model – is priced at the upper-end of the SOHO/SMB market, and is definitely targeted at a business user. Still, those same features that make it attractive for a business user also make it just as attractive for a home user that does a lot of heavy-duty printing and copying. If you operate a business out of a home, the MB5320 can serve double-duty for work and play – and that premium price could pay off in the end.
The best cheap printers for 2023 Best portable printers Features and design Since the Maxify is a brand-new lineup of inkjet printers, Canon gave it a fresh look that’s more fitting with small office environments. The MB5320 is a sleek but big black cube with rounded top edges, measuring 18.3 x 18.1 inches and standing 13.9 inches high. It weighs in at less than 29 pounds; it’s not so overly heavy that you can’t pick up or put on a desk, but it’s by no means compact.
The MB5320’s fold-out ADF has a capacity for 30 sheets, and provides one-pass duplexing, which means it can scan both sides of a document simultaneously – no need to manually flip the page. One-pass duplexing not only speeds up the scanning process (especially if you have lots of double-sided pages to scan), but also minimizes occurrences of feed jams. The scanner has an optical resolution of 1200 x 1200 dpi, which is a lower than many less-expensive all-in-ones we’ve tested; for business users, that resolution is sufficient for faxing, copying, or even scanning to optical character recognition (OCR) software. However, higher resolutions are required if you need to enlarge the scanned document while keeping the quality fine.
The DT Accessory Pack Up your game and the get the most out of your gear with the following extras, hand-picked by our editors: Belkin Hi-Speed USB 2.0 Cable (10 feet) ($6) Most printers don’t come with USB cables. If you aren’t going wireless, get one that’s long enough, like this one from Belkin.
Canon Photo Paper Glossy II ($19) Even though it isn’t a photo printer, the Maxify MB5320 can handle this function with skill. Just use a high-quality paper.
Canon PGI-2200 XL ink ($84) If you make a lot of copies, go for the XL large-capacity cartridges.
To use the Cloud capabilities, the device must be connected (wired or wireless) to the Internet via a network. This is easily accomplished by registering the device with Canon’s IJ Cloud server first, and you can then print from a smartphone or tablet using the Maxify Printing Solutions (MPS) for iOS or Android.
 MPS lets you print directly from Cloud services like Dropbox, Facebook , and Twitter. You can print wirelessly from mobile devices with Apple AirPrint, Google Cloud Print, or Wi-Fi Direct print. (MPS is similar to the Pixma Printing Solutions, which you can read more about here.
) One feature you won’t find in consumer AIOs is Records of Use. This provides the number of pages printed, faxed, copies, and scanned. In an office setting, this feature allows the printer or IT administrator to analyze usage; it also lets company bean counters to charge printing costs back to the department. It’s not an important feature for families (unless you need to monitor your kids’ excessive printing activities) or a one- or two-person home business, but it’s a sought-out feature for larger companies.
For connectivity, the MB5320 provides has a standard RJ-11 telephone jack for fax, Ethernet, USB, and Wi-Fi. There’s a secondary USB port located in the front, but it’s used for printing from or scanning to a flash drive. Because it isn’t a home printer, the MB5320 does not have a memory card reader.
Directly below the output tray are two paper trays. Each input tray can hold 250 sheets of paper, and the top tray can also be used with 4 x 6 inch photo paper. These trays are unusual in that they are “collapsible” when empty or when they are used for small paper, and fit flush inside the MFP.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Since the MB5320 isn’t a photo printer, it uses basic four-color (CMYK) ink tank – available in standard (PGI-2200) and high-capacity (PGI-2200XL) cartridges. For Maxify, Canon created a new ink system, Dual Resistant High Density. According to the company, even the standard tanks have larger yields than what you might find with a Pixma model, and the inks are designed to produce graphs with vivid colors and sharp, optical density and crisp text. The standard cartridges cost $30 for black and $25 for each color (cyan, magenta, and yellow); yield estimates are 1,000 pages for black and between 600 and 815 pages for the color inks. The high-capacity cartridges are rated at an estimated 2,500 pages for black, and between 1,295 and 1,755 pages for the colors; the XL black cartridge costs about $35, while the color cartridges run about $28.
What’s in the box The MB5320 comes with a set of starter ink cartridges, power and telephone cords, a setup poster, and CD containing software and drivers.
Warranty Canon offers a one-year limited warranty with InstantExchange (where Canon will replace the entire machine if it’s defective, while under warranty), plus a year of toll-free telephone support.
Setup and performance Setting up the MB5320 is routine: After inserting the ink cartridges, the printer primes the printhead and performs an automatic head alignment, which takes about 10 minutes. You can opt to install the software and drivers from the included CD, which includes the Canon Quick Toolbox, IJ Scan Utility OCR, Easy WebPrint EX, and a Speed Dial Utility for the fax. The Quick Toolbox provides a simple way to access the features of the MFP and launch the other utilities. Easy WebPrint EX lets you clip pieces of Web pages and paste them together into a single, printable document – saving paper by not printing extraneous portions of the pages. For the computer savvy, you can bypass the software altogether and just install the drivers you need.
For testing purposes, we used a direct USB connection, but setting the MB5320 for Wi-Fi is a simple procedure through the LCD’s onscreen instructions. Canon rates the MB5320 at 22 pages per minute in black and 15 ppm in color. With our four-page Word test document, which is mostly black text with a small color logo on each page, we were able to achieve almost exactly the 22 ppm Canon claims.
The MB5320 is strong enough to take on daily printing abuse from both office users and kids.
Surprisingly, the speed didn’t seem to drop off when we tested copying. Most inkjet-based MFPs slow down noticeably when used for copying, but the MB5320 is actually quite useable for this function. We tested photo scanning using the Import function of Picasa 3.0, and scans were fast, with excellent detail and good color accuracy.
Although it can output color, Canon doesn’t promote the MB5320 as a photo printer. But our test images printed on Canon’s Photo Paper Glossy II and Matte were correctly saturated with very accurate color reproduction. We were even presently surprised with the output on Hammermill Premium Inkjet and Laser Paper, which costs about $12 a ream. Most of the time when we test printers on this paper, color saturation suffers because of wicking (the ink is drawn down into the paper). On the Hammermill paper, which is essentially a premium grade plain paper, colors were nicely saturated and accurate, though we did notice a very slight amount of banding. Nonetheless, if your family is going to use the MB5320 for reports and presentations, they will be very happy with the quality of the output. Just keep in mind that if the output is important, using a high-quality premium paper is always a good idea.
Conclusion Most home users won’t find the Maxify MB5320’s features compelling enough to justify the premium price. However, if you run a small business or home office out of your house, we can see the MB5320 as a great investment that does double-duty for work and the kids’ homework. For larger businesses, there are attractive features that make it suitable as a workgroup or departmental printer that does heavy printing and copying.
Whether it’s the home or office, the MB5320 is strong enough to take on daily printing, copying, and scanning abuse. It delivers fast performance for an inkjet printer, and the color prints are photo-printer quality – even on regular copy paper. Cartridge yields are high enough that you aren’t visiting the office supply store several times a month. And, it’s backed by Canon’s U.S.-based customer support center – an important service that Canon feels is what makes them unique from the competition. The MB5320 clearly demonstrates Canon’s eagerness in pursuing the SOHO market, and it’s a winner.
Highs Large color touchscreen Single-pass duplex scanning Fast performance Excellent prints Lows Expensive Editors' Recommendations Best color laser printers for 2023: tested and reviewed Bring your documents to life with these Prime Day printer deals Walmart slices price on Canon ImageClass MF232W Wi-Fi laser printer Photography Printer Reviews Product Reviews Computing Printers are complicated machines featuring a mix of plastics, metals, electronics, and components, some of which are potentially flagged as hazardous waste. In 2023, it's more important than ever to be kind to the planet, and there are several environmentally safe ways to dispose of a printer.
Even the best printers in the world can reach the end of their life after several years if ink or toner is no longer available. A well-loved printer can suffer from accumulated wear and tear or damage from a catastrophic power surge that's too expensive to repair.
Computing It's Black Friday, which means it is time to give expensive tech products and fun, but expensive, toys a second look. The right Black Friday deals are there to take these categories of products down in price. Where these categories of expensive tech and cool toys collide is the Meta Quest 2, a VR headset, and sure enough, it has a good sale going on over at Amazon right now. Normally $300, its price has dropped by $51 down to just $249, one of the best VR headset Black Friday deals we've seen. The really good news? This deal is here now, so you don't have to wait to buy it like you will with the rest of your post Thanksgiving shopping. In fact, if you tap the button below and buy now, and with a little shipping luck, you might have it by Thanksgiving to play with your family.
Why you should buy the Meta Quest 2 The Meta Quest 2, which dominated Steam last year, is a VR headset that gives a full 360 field of view, allows you to experience 3D positional audio, and has over 500 compatible titles between gaming, fitness, and other experiences. If you're a Twitch viewer, you may recognize it from streamers playing Meta Quest 2 games like Beat Saber or the somewhat ironically humorous Among Us VR. It refreshes at 120Hz and gives each eye a view of 1832 x 1920p.
Computing The G-series of gaming laptops from Dell represent a balance between performance and affordability. While it is positioned below the Alienware gaming laptop lineup, it manages to incorporate some of the standout features from its more expensive counterpart. It takes inspiration from its pricier cousin in terms of design and build quality, and also offers commendable thermal and graphics performance.
The company officially unveiled the 2023 G-series back in January at CES, and if you have decided to purchase a new Dell gaming laptop, then we recommend going for the latest G16 7630.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
