Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Way to Hire Employees Highest Paying Jobs Best Business Laptops What is RingCentral? Best VPN Best Job Search Sites Home Computing Reviews Canon Maxify MB5420 review How to be a small business hero, step 1: Buy this printer By Ted Needleman Close $399.99 Large, easy-to-use color touch screen One-pass duplex printing and ADF scanning Fast, quality prints Excellent paper handling and capacity Ink cartridges have superior yield Copying could be faster Canon’s Maxify-series of inkjet printers is designed primarily for small businesses and home offices — and for those environments, the new Maxify MB5420 is a terrific multifunction workhorse. It’s versatile, loaded with features, and offers a high print yield.
While the $330 price tag puts this printer at the top of the consumer multifunction/all-in-one segment, we think the same features that make the Maxify MB5420 attractive to its target audience also make it a compelling buy for home users, provided they print a lot and have use for the various features offered. Sure, it’s overkill for some, but highly useful for others. And frankly, it’s a steal for any small business.
Meta Quest Pro reviewers came away impressed by these three things Walmart slices price on Canon ImageClass MF232W Wi-Fi laser printer What’s included The printer comes with a power cord, telephone cord (for the fax function), setup posters, and an installation disc. In addition, a set of starter ink cartridges completes the contents.
Design and features The MB5420 looks all business with its cubic form-factor and brushed black finish, measuring 18.5 × 15 × 13.5 inches and weighing approximately 30 pounds. It doesn’t resemble a consumer device, but depending on your taste, it looks either sleek or dull (at least Canon went with a sexier color than beige).
Because the MB5420 is designed for heavy-duty printing, there is plenty of storage capacity for paper. An automatic document feeder, with support for single-pass duplexing, has a capacity for 30 sheets. Two paper drawers in the front-bottom hold 250 sheets each, giving the MB5420 the capacity to hold a full ream of paper. Or, you can keep different types of paper in the separate drawers, such as plain paper in one and letterhead, photo paper, or heavy stock in the other.
The control panel has a 3.5-inch color touchscreen surrounded by six buttons (power, home, back, start color, start black, and stop). When powered on, the touchscreen shows a default panel of icons for copy, fax, and scan. If you know how to use a smartphone , then you shouldn’t have a problem navigating the menus; swiping left or right takes you to other functions and settings. Compared to the early-generation printer touchscreens you’re probably used to, the smooth navigation of the MB5420’s is a welcome improvement.
The printer has excellent connectivity options, with Ethernet, USB, Wi-Fi, and Wi-Fi Direct. It does not have Near-Field Communication ( NFC ), a feature that’s becoming increasingly common (whether it’s popular among users, remains to be seen).
The MB5420 can join a network via Wi-Fi or Ethernet. When connected to the Internet, the machine can scan to or download and print from various cloud-based services, such as OneDrive and Dropbox. In order to take advantage of this feature, you need to register the MFP with Canon’s IJ Cloud Server. In addition, remote printing from mobile devices is available using Apple AirPrint, Canon PRINT, Google Cloud Print, Microsoft Mobile Print, Mopria Device Printing, and Wi-Fi Direct. The MB5420 can also function as an access point, so that other wireless devices can connect to the network through it.
Ink cartridges have a larger capacity than those in home printers do, and prices are reasonable.
Smaller icons along the bottom of the LCD show connectivity status, ink levels, and approximate paper tray status. We wouldn’t place too much faith in the latter, as the display showed both trays full when in fact they were both empty. On the plus side, the upper-part of the LCD has an icon labeled “Record of use,” which prints a report of the number pages printed, scanned, copied, and faxed. This is a useful feature for an office with multiple users.
One advantage of the MB5420 being oriented towards business use is that the ink cartridges have a larger capacity than many of those for more consumer targeted MFPs or printers. The standard capacity PGI-2200 ink cartridges are priced at about $30 for black and $25 for color, with expected black page yields of 1,000 pages and color yields of up to 800 pages. Also available are XL higher-capacity cartridges with black yields of about 2,500 pages and up to 1,500 pages for the color cartridges. The XL cartridges cost about $35 for black; the color cartridges run about $28. For this type of machine, we think pricing for replacement ink is reasonable.
Performance and use We encountered no problems when setting up the MB5420. After powering on the unit and inserting the ink cartridges, the printer performs a priming procedure that takes about five minutes. If you choose to install the software off the included disc, you’ll get PosterArtist Lite, My Printer (a utility for troubleshooting and diagnosing printer errors, and changing settings such as those for paper type), a network tool that lets you change the printer’s settings from your PC, and a Speed Dial utility for the fax. You can also install the drivers for printing and scanning, which are available for download via Canon’s website as well.
We connected the MFP using both wired Ethernet and Wi-Fi. Wi-Fi setup, surprisingly, was quick and painless, which isn’t something we say often. Once we dropped the MB5420 into our office network, every user using Google Chrome received an automatic notice that a new printer is available. With a MacBook Air, we could print to it wirelessly using AirPrint, without needing to install drivers.
Canon rates the MB5420 at up to 24 pages-per-minute (ppm) in monochrome and 15.5 ppm in color. For documents, we achieved a monochrome page speed of 22.2 ppm using an all-text Word document, and 10ppm with a mostly color Excel document. The MB5420 is not marketed as a photo printer, but we found color prints to be excellent, with accuracy and fine detail, especially on glossy photo paper (the speed may be much slower when printing full-page images). On plain paper, colors were somewhat washed out, which is to be expected due to wicking occurring below the surface of the paper.
Les Shu/Digital Trends Copying was considerably slower than printing, but still suitable for smaller copy runs. The MB5420’s scanner is terrific, as our scanned documents exhibited accurate colors and fine detail. If you’re looking to do a large copy job, however, you’re better off using a dedicated copier or a copy shop.
Warranty Canon includes a one-year limited warranty with InstantExchange program (a U.S.-only service that lets you swap for a refurbished model), and one-year toll-free telephone support.
Our take If you live in a household or have a small office that doesn’t print a lot, you’ll be better served by an all-in-one with a price tag of under $200 or even $150. But if you have a high monthly print cycle, particularly in an office with several employees, you’ll love the MB5420.
Is there a better alternative? For the home, the MB5420 is expensive. There are similar offerings from other vendors including Brother, Hewlett Packard, and Epson. For example, the Epson Workforce Pro WF-5620 has similar specs and costs less at about $250. There are also less expensive machines from Canon, in the Pixma series, especially if you can do without the fax mode.
The MB5420 targets small business owners, however, and if that’s you, it could end up paying for itself. The capabilities, high duty cycle, fast print speeds, and large paper and ink capacities are ideal features for an office. Compared with other workhorse inkjet printers, the MB5420 is a more attractive proposition for this environment. The aforementioned Epson WF-5620, for example, costs an extra $200 if you want a second paper tray. In that view, the MB5420 is a good buy.
How long will it last? The MB5420 has a monthly print duty cycle of 2,000 pages, based on an environment of 10 users or fewer. As a business machine, it’s designed to handle more abuse than a home printer. Expect three-to-five years of continuous use at 1,000 to 1,600 pages per month.
Should you buy it? Yes, if you need a four-function, high-quality workhorse office printer that has a high monthly print cycle and supports multiple paper inputs and various connectivity modes. Your officemates will appreciate the speed, and your accountant will commend you on the cost.
Editors' Recommendations Best color laser printers for 2023: tested and reviewed Asus launches a new AMD-powered iMac competitor with a thin, striking design Business Photography Smart Home Printer Reviews Product Reviews Computing Printers are complicated machines featuring a mix of plastics, metals, electronics, and components, some of which are potentially flagged as hazardous waste. In 2023, it's more important than ever to be kind to the planet, and there are several environmentally safe ways to dispose of a printer.
Even the best printers in the world can reach the end of their life after several years if ink or toner is no longer available. A well-loved printer can suffer from accumulated wear and tear or damage from a catastrophic power surge that's too expensive to repair.
Computing It's Black Friday, which means it is time to give expensive tech products and fun, but expensive, toys a second look. The right Black Friday deals are there to take these categories of products down in price. Where these categories of expensive tech and cool toys collide is the Meta Quest 2, a VR headset, and sure enough, it has a good sale going on over at Amazon right now. Normally $300, its price has dropped by $51 down to just $249, one of the best VR headset Black Friday deals we've seen. The really good news? This deal is here now, so you don't have to wait to buy it like you will with the rest of your post Thanksgiving shopping. In fact, if you tap the button below and buy now, and with a little shipping luck, you might have it by Thanksgiving to play with your family.
Why you should buy the Meta Quest 2 The Meta Quest 2, which dominated Steam last year, is a VR headset that gives a full 360 field of view, allows you to experience 3D positional audio, and has over 500 compatible titles between gaming, fitness, and other experiences. If you're a Twitch viewer, you may recognize it from streamers playing Meta Quest 2 games like Beat Saber or the somewhat ironically humorous Among Us VR. It refreshes at 120Hz and gives each eye a view of 1832 x 1920p.
Computing The G-series of gaming laptops from Dell represent a balance between performance and affordability. While it is positioned below the Alienware gaming laptop lineup, it manages to incorporate some of the standout features from its more expensive counterpart. It takes inspiration from its pricier cousin in terms of design and build quality, and also offers commendable thermal and graphics performance.
The company officially unveiled the 2023 G-series back in January at CES, and if you have decided to purchase a new Dell gaming laptop, then we recommend going for the latest G16 7630.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
