Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Canon PIXMA G4270 MegaTank: a long-lasting home office printer By Alan Truly Close $250.00 MegaTank offers low-cost ink Ink lasts a long time and eliminates waste Print speed is good for a budget office printer Easy setup Good value Warm tint to photo prints Document feeder stops early Copy fails with narrow margins Canon’s PIXMA G4270 MegaTank inkjet printer is an affordable all-in-one , including fax capability, that will keep printing for a long time. It’s built for a heavy workload, making it a good option for home office use.
Design Printing performance Special features Software and compatibility Good long-term value Is this the printer for you? The best test of a tank printer is a massive number of prints. I churned through a lot of paper to check how the included ink supply held up before replacement and tested the setup experience, scan, copy, and print quality.
The bottom line is the price, long-term costs, and ensuring there’s good value for the money. Let’s check out the Canon PIXMA G4270 all-in-one MegaTank.
Design Canon’s PIXMA G4270 is an attractive home office printer.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The Canon PIXMA G4270 is all black with nice curved edges and a subtle dot pattern on the bottom half that looks nice. It blends well with office equipment and will fit in nicely with your computer and other tech that tends to be black.
The front panel has clearly labeled, functional buttons with white labels that will stand out even in a shady corner. A green start button prints and copies in color, while the white start button begins black-and-white operations. The stop button is red. Color coding is always helpful.
With a footprint of 16-by-22 inches and standing 10.25 inches high, the Canon PIXMA G4270 is a compact all-in-one.
The paper tray is in the rear, but the right side of the automatic document feeder (ADF) is low enough that it’s easy to see the paper guides even on a counter-height printer stand. If your stand is desk-height, the control panel’s tilt is slight enough that you might need to bend to see the display well.
The monochrome display is a bit small at 1.4 inches, but the menu options are well-designed. Ultimately, the mobile app is a better choice for most operations.
Printing performance Print speed is better than average for an entry-level home office printer. Canon estimates an average of 11 pages per minute (ppm) for black-and-white and six ppm for color documents.
The Canon PIXMA G4270 can’t compete with a laser printer or high-throughput inkjet , but it’s nice to have a little extra speed when printing a sizable stack of reports or letters.
Print quality for documents is crisp and reliable. Color documents look good, and there’s no banding in blocks of color.
The photographic print quality is good but could be better. Most of the PIXMA G4270’s photo prints have a warm tint. While leaning toward cool or warm is somewhat common in low-cost printers , some tinkering usually helps. I tried playing with various settings but couldn’t find a solution beyond adjusting the photo on my computer or phone before printing.
Canon’s PIXMA G4270 MegaTank inkjet can print borderless photos in various sizes and is relatively fast. It works well for documents that include images, but you might prefer a dedicated photo printer if pictures are a common need.
The printer detects paper changes, and an on-screen prompt asks for the matching size and type. Overall, operation at the printer is simple, with one exception, as I’ll explain below.
Special features The PIXMA G4270 is an all-in-one printer that also includes fax capability. I don’t have a physical phone line to test that feature; however, as a fax machine manufacturer, Canon understands the technology well. It should work as expected.
I experienced some problems with the copy feature. With the ADF, it kept stopping after 10 pages. I don’t understand why. The capacity is 35 sheets, but I only reached 13 pages once before stopping with an error message, “Can’t communicate with scanner.” The PIXMA G4270’s document feeder stopped before scanning was complete.
Image used with permission by copyright holder While the flatbed scanner works more reliably, copies kept cutting off the edges, leaving a quarter-inch margin, even when I selected borderless copy from the menu. I carefully checked that I aligned the document well at the left-back corner. Admittedly, it had slim margins, but borderless should be just that.
Despite these issues, copying was acceptable in most cases. With standard documents with quarter-inch or larger margins, there isn’t a problem. For color copies output to glossy photo paper, borderless works.
Canon’s PIXMA G4270 can copy and print a massive number of pages before needing a refill.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The Canon PIXMA G4270 can scan to my smartphone with the mobile app. It’s also possible to scan to a computer with system software or Canon’s software. The optical resolution is 600 x 1200 dots per inch, which is good enough for most uses. If you need higher resolution or optical character recognition, a dedicated scanner would be required.
Software and compatibility Setting up the Canon PIXMA G4270 was quick and easy with the Canon Print app. Although this is a tank printer that uses bottled ink for refills, the printer came with two cartridges as well. These cartridges contain print heads for black and color ink.
One odd detail is the instruction telling me to squeeze the ink bottle. The plastic is quite rigid and wouldn’t budge. It turned out this wasn’t necessary because the ink quickly drained into the tanks simply with the force of gravity.
The instructions say to squeeze the PIXMA G4270 ink bottles, but you can’t.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The PIXMA G4270 MegaTank includes four bottles of ink for cyan, magenta, yellow, and black, all of the colors needed for full-color printing. Canon estimates that supply provides 6,000 black-and-white pages and 7,700 color pages.
That’s an order of magnitude greater than you’ll receive from most inkjet cartridge printers. Tank printers have a huge advantage in this regard, offering more capacity, low-cost ink supplies, and eliminating waste.
Canon PIXMA G4270 setup is easy with the mobile app.
Image used with permission by copyright holder I used my iPhone for setup, and there’s also a mobile app for Android.
 I tested printing and scanning with each device and had no issues with the software.
Windows and macOS support is also painless. The PIXMA G4270 showed up in settings, making it possible to print and scan immediately. While a direct USB cable connection is possible, Wi-Fi is just as fast and gives you the freedom to place the printer anywhere you like.
Good long-term value As a MegaTank inkjet, the Canon PIXMA G4270 provides good value.
Image used with permission by copyright holder At $250, the Canon PIXMA G4270 all-in-one offers a low entry cost and good long-term value. With built-in printing, scanning, copying, and faxing, it replaces multiple devices yet has a compact size.
When you do need to replace ink, you can order individual bottles. That’s great if you find you print more magenta and black than yellow and cyan, for example.
Even if you need a complete set of ink, it’s $13 per color bottle and $18 for black. That’s three-tenths of a cent in ink for each black-and-white page and five-tenths per color page. Ink cost is no longer a consideration.
Is this the printer for you? Canon’s PIXMA G4270 all-in-one MegaTank is a workhorse with a monthly duty cycle of 3,000 pages. This long-lasting inkjet printer lets you forget about ink cartridges and focus on your work.
Print speed isn’t blistering fast, but the Canon PIXMA G4270 rolls out black-and-white and color documents noticeably quicker than most low-cost tank printers. Also, scanning was reliable and offered good quality.
Color tints in photo prints and a few quirks with copying were bothersome, but overall, the PIXMA G4270 is a good value for use in a home office where you need an everything device that can fill in the gaps without taking up a lot of space.
Editors' Recommendations Walmart slices price on Canon ImageClass MF232W Wi-Fi laser printer Printer Reviews Product Reviews Computing Lenovo is probably one of the best-known laptop makers, especially since they have an incredibly wide variety of them to choose from. That also means they have an excellent selection of gaming laptops, so you can hone in on something that fits your budget. That's especially the case with the ongoing early Black Friday deals that are seeing laptops being cut down in price across the board. That said, Lenovo's selection of gaming laptops is too wide for us to include all their active deals here, so we've selected some of our favorites for both AMD and Intel CPUs. Also, if you're not sure of where to start, you should check out our list of best Lenovo laptops for some good options.
Best Lenovo Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals (AMD) Lenovo has a wider selection of AMD gaming laptops, which is great if you want to go with something AMD-powered. Unfortunately, there aren't any good deals on Lenovo laptops with both an AMD CPU and GPU, but the selection below is wide enough to pick something that fits your needs a bit better. And, if you want something with an RTX 4090 on a budget, then the AMD version is probably the cheapest for Lenovo.
Computing Printers are complicated machines featuring a mix of plastics, metals, electronics, and components, some of which are potentially flagged as hazardous waste. In 2023, it's more important than ever to be kind to the planet, and there are several environmentally safe ways to dispose of a printer.
Even the best printers in the world can reach the end of their life after several years if ink or toner is no longer available. A well-loved printer can suffer from accumulated wear and tear or damage from a catastrophic power surge that's too expensive to repair.
Computing It's Black Friday, which means it is time to give expensive tech products and fun, but expensive, toys a second look. The right Black Friday deals are there to take these categories of products down in price. Where these categories of expensive tech and cool toys collide is the Meta Quest 2, a VR headset, and sure enough, it has a good sale going on over at Amazon right now. Normally $300, its price has dropped by $51 down to just $249, one of the best VR headset Black Friday deals we've seen. The really good news? This deal is here now, so you don't have to wait to buy it like you will with the rest of your post Thanksgiving shopping. In fact, if you tap the button below and buy now, and with a little shipping luck, you might have it by Thanksgiving to play with your family.
Why you should buy the Meta Quest 2 The Meta Quest 2, which dominated Steam last year, is a VR headset that gives a full 360 field of view, allows you to experience 3D positional audio, and has over 500 compatible titles between gaming, fitness, and other experiences. If you're a Twitch viewer, you may recognize it from streamers playing Meta Quest 2 games like Beat Saber or the somewhat ironically humorous Among Us VR. It refreshes at 120Hz and gives each eye a view of 1832 x 1920p.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
