Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Reviews Canon PIXMA MG7520 review Canon's MG7520 is adept at printing gallery-quality photos and school essays By Ted Needleman Close $150.00 Excellent output quality Duplex printing NFC support Useful cloud-, Web-based features No fax capability No automatic duplex scanning Limited paper capacity As a company renowned for cameras that take great photos, we’ve come to expect the same excellent output from Canon’s printers. The Pixma MG7520 lives up to this heritage. As a very capable six-color photo printer, the MG7520 delivers quality photo prints that will make amateur photographers happy, while home users will appreciate the arts and crafts features. The scan and copy functions make the printer versatile, and the Web and cloud functionalities allow the machine to function on its own, without being tethered to a computer.
Features and design The MG7520 is a three-function all-in-one machine built around a photo printer engine, which means the ink system adds two colors – pigment black to supplement the dye-based black, and gray – to the standard CMYK. These extra inks give more detail in shaded areas where CMYK-only printers tend to lose details in photo prints. You can print, scan, and copy, but Canon’s Pixma photo printers (designated by the MG in its model name) don’t have fax capability – something most home users won’t miss.
Image used with permission by copyright holder This Canon flagship consumer photo printer (as of late 2014) has a very sleek design (it measures 17.2 x 14.6 x 5.9 inches and weighs a svelte 17.4 pounds, making it compact and lightweight). On the top is a flatbed scanner with an optical resolution of 2400×4800 dpi; because MG photo printers aren’t designed for office use, there is no automatic document feeder. The front has a 3.5-inch color touchscreen, plus a sensor area for Canon’s Pixma Touch and Print NFC ( near-field communication ) feature for wireless printing using NFC-compatible Android smartphones. To use Touch and Print, you will need to use the Pixma Printing Solutions app on your phone, but what annoyed us was that there’s documentation that explains the setup process (we had to track one down online).
Walmart slices price on Canon ImageClass MF232W Wi-Fi laser printer The MG7520 provides a host of mobile and Web-connected features, like cloud printing or access to Facebook.
Besides NFC, the MG7520 offers wired Ethernet, USB, Wi-Fi, and Wireless PictBridge connectivity options (the latter only works with a few Canon camera). There’s also a multi-format memory card reader that supports SD, SDHC, MiniSD, MicroSD, MicroSDHC, and various Memory Stick formats.
Under this panel are two paper trays. The main tray holds up to 120 sheets of letter-sized paper, which isn’t a lot. The second tray is only for photo paper and holds up to 20 sheets of 4 x 6 or 5 x 7 photo paper. Larger photo paper sizes are fed through the main paper tray. The printer can make two-sided (duplex) prints – a good feature to look for.
The inks are available in standard capacity and high capacity (XL). Ink prices vary between $12 and $23 per cartridge. With the XL cartridges, the color cartridges yield about 360 pages; 275 pages for the gray ink; 1,125 pages for black; and 3,900 page for pigment black – a color that is used only sparingly. The standard cartridges have approximate yields of 168 (color), 125 (gray), 495 (black), and 3,050 (pigment black) pages.
To the cloud While printers are seen as essential computer peripherals anymore, companies like Canon are putting extra value into them. As with many printers these days, the MG7520 provides a host of mobile and Web-connected features, so we want to talk a little bit about the platform, which Canon calls Pixma Printing Solutions (PPS). Users can access the PPS functions through an app for Android and iOS, or via the touchscreen of the printer.
The printer supports Apple AirPrint for printing from Apple devices, as well as cloud-based printing solutions like Google Cloud Print and Canon’s own IJ Cloud Print. Of course, to use any Web features, the MG7520 must have a connection to the Internet. Setup is relatively painless: download the app from their respective stores, or go through the MG7520’s setup menus, and simply follow the setup prompts. To use Google Cloud Print or Canon IJ Cloud Print, you will need to have accounts established with either service before you connect to them; the printer guides you through registration.
Besides the cloud platforms, you can access content on various Web services. Once you’ve registered your printer with something called the Canon Cloud Link Server, you can download applications such as Picasa Web Albums directly to the printer. You can also link to your accounts on Facebook, Twitter, Flickr, Dropbox, and others. When set up, these are available from the “Cloud” icon on the LCD’s home screen, and you can print photos or documents stored on these services.
Not tied to PPS is Creative Park Premium, an online resource from Canon that provides a wide variety of printable crafts you can print through the MG7520.
What’s in the box Packed in the box is the MFP, the power cord, a set of six starter ink cartridges, a setup CD, and a special tray for printing on printable CDs or DVDs. Canon also includes a small sample pack of photo paper.
Warranty Canon’s one-year limited warranty includes an Instant Exchange option, which lets you replace a unit if a technician can’t solve an issue over the telephone. Canon also includes a year of toll-free telephone support.
Performance and use Setting up the MFP is straightforward. The installation process on the included CD (you can also download the software from Canon’s website) walks you through the process of installing the print and scan drivers. You can also install Canon’s Quick Menu, which takes up the bottom right corner of your screen; we didn’t bother, as past reviews of this feature found it unnecessary for actually using the printer.
The extra inks give more detail in shaded areas of photos.
In addition to a wired USB connection, we also set up the printer for wireless. If your Wi-Fi router supports Wi-Fi Protected Setup, or WPS, connecting the printer to the network is quick and painless. The entire process took about a minute. If WPS isn’t available, just follow through the usual prompts of searching and connecting to the network.
The MG7520 performs very well. Canon rates the print speed at about 15 pages per minute (ppm) when printing in black and 10 ppm in color. In our test, which involves printing a Word document of mostly black text with a small color logo, the MG7520 churned out pages at a rate of 15 ppm.
Canon touts the MG7520 as a flagship photo-capable home printer, and our tests reaffirmed this. We printed our three test images on a variety of Canon photo papers, as well as Hammermill Premium Inkjet and Laser Paper (a basic paper you can purchase at office supply stores). On the photo papers, colors were accurate and nicely saturated. On the Hammermill paper, the saturation fell off somewhat because of ink wicking down into the paper, but we judge the output quality on this paper to be fine for things like school reports.
Image used with permission by copyright holder In testing the copying speed, we found it acceptable, but still slow – a universal complaint with the majority of inkjet-based AiOs. The scanner produces output that’s color accurate and provides fine detail. The lack of an ADF on the scanner does limit scanning and copying double-sided or multiple page documents.
Conclusion As a photo printer, the MG7520 is excellent. Home users will appreciate the photo quality prints and usefulness for making craft projects such as greeting cards, calendars, etc. Our one complaint is that, for the asking price, we do wish Canon had added an ADF to the scanner; other vendors, like Epson , have. We didn’t miss the fax.
Otherwise, the MG7520 has a lot going for it. It can print onto optical media, supports NFC, generates excellent quality output, and access a variety of Web- and cloud-based services. With its easy to navigate screen, all of these make the MG7520 a great choice for the home photographer or crafts aficionado.
Highs Excellent output quality Duplex printing NFC support Useful cloud-, Web-based features Lows No fax capability No automatic duplex scanning Limited paper capacity Editors' Recommendations Best color laser printers for 2023: tested and reviewed Photography Printer Reviews Product Reviews Computing The design of Apple's Magic Mouse continues to be a major complaint among Mac users, a blight on Apple's otherwise fantastic design choices. The ergonomics are inhuman, it still uses a Lightning charging port (even on the new M3 iMac), and it can't be charged while being used.
However, an engineer has introduced his design concept that would not only solve the charging issue on the Magic Mouse but also make the design ergonomic and comfortable for natural handling.
Computing Lenovo is probably one of the best-known laptop makers, especially since they have an incredibly wide variety of them to choose from. That also means they have an excellent selection of gaming laptops, so you can hone in on something that fits your budget. That's especially the case with the ongoing early Black Friday deals that are seeing laptops being cut down in price across the board. That said, Lenovo's selection of gaming laptops is too wide for us to include all their active deals here, so we've selected some of our favorites for both AMD and Intel CPUs. Also, if you're not sure of where to start, you should check out our list of best Lenovo laptops for some good options.
Best Lenovo Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals (AMD) Lenovo has a wider selection of AMD gaming laptops, which is great if you want to go with something AMD-powered. Unfortunately, there aren't any good deals on Lenovo laptops with both an AMD CPU and GPU, but the selection below is wide enough to pick something that fits your needs a bit better. And, if you want something with an RTX 4090 on a budget, then the AMD version is probably the cheapest for Lenovo.
Computing Printers are complicated machines featuring a mix of plastics, metals, electronics, and components, some of which are potentially flagged as hazardous waste. In 2023, it's more important than ever to be kind to the planet, and there are several environmentally safe ways to dispose of a printer.
Even the best printers in the world can reach the end of their life after several years if ink or toner is no longer available. A well-loved printer can suffer from accumulated wear and tear or damage from a catastrophic power surge that's too expensive to repair.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
