Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Reviews Canon Pixma TS9020 review Canon Pixma TS9020’s great speed and output belie its affordable price By Ted Needleman Close $199.99 Excellent color output Very good performance Lots of connectivity options SD card slot Duplex printing Paper tray extends out No ADF Canon’s strength in photography includes its photo printers, not just cameras. The company’s new Pixma TS-series replaces the MG-series, but at heart they remain the same – all-in-one (AIO) inkjet printers for the home – and serve the same customer. In this Canon Pixma TS9020 review, we take a look at the flagship model: a six-color multifunction printer that prints, scans, and copies, with the added bonus of producing excellent quality photo output up to 8×10 inches. Since it’s intended for the home, and not office, it lacks an automatic document feeder (ADF) and fax, but these omissions are unlikely to figure heavily in the purchase decision for what is a very good photo printer.
Features and design With the TS-series, Canon has redesigned the look of its consumer inkjet models — less curvy, more boxy. We know taste is subjective, but we find the compact all-in-one (14.7 x 12.8 x 5.6 inches; 15 pounds) sleek, with its two-tone, glossy black and white exterior (it’s also available in red). Lift the white lid up to reveal the flatbed scanner.
Walmart slices price on Canon ImageClass MF232W Wi-Fi laser printer The front panel has a 5-inch color LCD that’s touch-sensitive and easy to read. The panel, which also has the power button and near-field communication ( NFC ) tag for mobile printing (requires compatible devices, mainly Android ), tilts up in order to extend the output tray. Tilt the panel all the way up, and you can access the special tray for printing on supported optical media (Canon’s software includes a print utility that lets you create impressive custom CD and DVD labels).
Hiding behind that panel is a lone SD card slot. You can pop the SD card from your digital camera, review the photos on the printer’s LCD, and print the ones you want. Gone are the multiple slots for the various formats before everyone settled on SD, but note that the printer only supports SD and SDHC (and the mini and micro versions, via an SD adapter). This sort of shows the type of general consumer Canon has in mind with the TS9020.
The TS9020 is a three-function AIO. As faxing is increasingly unimportant to a home market, we don’t see this as a huge loss. If you need fax for, say, a home office, Canon sells four-function office AIOs in its Pixma MX-series and Maxify printers. What we truly miss, however, is a useful ADF for scanning or copying multi-page documents; you will find this feature in office models, but not a photo printer such as the TS9020.
One thing we find really awkward is the paper drawer: it’s at the bottom of the unit – fairly common – but in its default configuration, it only accommodates paper up to 8 x 10, which tends to be photo paper, including Canon’s new 5 x 5-inch square photo paper. If you want to print on letter (8.5 x 11) or legal (8.5 x 14) sized paper, you have to extend the paper drawer by pressing on a button and pulling the end of the drawer farther out. When you do this, the drawer sticks out a bit from the edge of the unit, which mars the sleek look.
Canon’s home photo inkjet printer series has a new name, and a sleek redesign.
The small 100-sheet capacity of the paper drawer is also an annoyance, and it’s something too common in home printers. In reality, we were only able to load about 90 sheets maximum. Perhaps it isn’t an issue for those who print occasionally, but frequent printers will the small capacity frustrating. Fortunately, the TS9020 is a duplex printer, able to print on both sides of the page automatically. And, a rear paper tray gives you another 100-sheet capacity of plain paper or 20 sheets of thicker photo paper. Canon actually brought the rear paper tray back based on customer request, which had been removed from some MG-series models.
Connectivity options are excellent. In addition to USB, Wi-Fi, and NFC, the TS9020 also supports wired Ethernet. The AIO also supports a variety of mobile and cloud-based print platforms, including Apple AirPrint, Canon’s Print app (iOS and Android), Google Cloud Print, Mopria Device Printing, and Pixma Cloud Link. The TS9020 is also compatible with cameras with Wireless PictBridge (many of the new Canon cameras offer this).
Wireless setup is easy and straightforward – just go through the prompts to connect the printer to a network, which is then discoverable by other devices. With an iOS device , the printer pops up as an option provided both devices are on the same network.
Being that it’s designed for printing photos, the TS9020 is a six-color printer, providing Photo Black and Gray inks in addition to the standard CMYK (Cyan, Magenta, Yellow and Black). These ink cartridges are available in standard and high capacity versions. The Photo Black and Gray inks are used only when printing photos. Of the six inks, five are dye-based with the Photo Black ink being pigment-based to give deeper blacks. The standard capacity dye inks run about $13 each (with a 350-page average page yield) and $16 for Photo Black (300 page yield), while the higher capacity inks run $20 for colors (700 page yield) and $25 for Photo Black (500 page yield).
Setup and performance Setting up the TS9020 is easy. It took us about 10 minutes, which included the printhead alignment and ink priming initialization. We used the included disc to install printer and scanner drivers, as well as applicable software (you can do a full installation, or pick what you want), but you can also download the from Canon’s support website.
 We opted for a wired Ethernet connection, as it would provide the fastest speed for performance testing (to test the internet-based features, we connected to a Wi-Fi network).
For photography, one of the primary reasons for buying a six-color (or more) printer over the standard four-color CMYK standard is the enhanced quality of the photo output. To be honest, for many users, four-color output is just fine for casual snapshots.
Bill Roberson/Digital Trends But, the six colors do make a subtle difference, and if you are really into photography, it’s worth having. On a purely visual basis, the prints we generated — a variety that included photographs and charts — were well saturated with deep blacks, and the colors were accurate when compared to the X-Rite color reference we use. In fact, when we checked it against prints we made from a calibrated, nine-color Epson SureColor P600 , the differences in quality were noticeable, but very subtle.
We are very happy with the print performance. Canon rates the TS9020 at about 15 pages per minute (Canon calls it images per minute) in monochrome printing and 10 ppm in color. Printing a mostly monochrome four-page Word document, we achieved an output speed of 16 ppm, which dropped to 7.3 ppm when printing a mostly color Excel document. These documents are part of the ISO Document Suite the vendors use, but our test protocol is not as elaborate, so our scores are in-line with Canon’s specs.
The scanner has an optical resolution of 2,400 dpi, which is fine for most uses. We tested it by scanning of our image test documents using the Google Picasa (RIP) import function, which recognized the TS9020 as a TWAIN scanner. Printing out the scanned test documents, we found they were very close to the originals in both detail and color accuracy. Unfortunately, if you do a lot of scanning or copying, you’ll find the flatbed scanner a pain to use. For a single scan or two, you won’t miss the ADF too much Warranty information Canon offers a standard one-year warranty.
Our Take The Canon Pixma TS9020 is a very capable six-color AIO with good performance and great photo output. It also boasts terrific connectivity, with NFC and wired Ethernet in addition to the ubiquitous USB and Wi-Fi. It has two main drawbacks: The small 100-sheet capacity paper drawer is limiting if you print often, and sticks out awkwardly when using standard letter-sized paper. And the lack of an ADF and, to a lesser extent, fax may put the TS9020 out of consideration for some users. But we like the large touch-capable LCD control panel, and the unit’s sleek looks. For the money ($200 MSRP, available for $150 as of writing), the TS9020 is a good value.
Is there a better alternative? Epson’s Expression Photo XP-860 is a six-color printer, but with a list price of $299 (street price of $200), it’s pricier than the TS9020, making the Canon a better buy. However, the XP-860 has a 30-page ADF and fax capability, which may be more desirable if you need those function, like a small office. If large photo prints are your thing and you can do without the multifunction components, consider upping the budget for a printer like Canon’s Pixma IP8720.
Note that the TS9020 is the flagship, and that the TS-series has less-expensive models in the lineup, like the TS8020, which has a smaller LCD but is otherwise the same printer. The TS5020 is the least expensive model, at $100 (MSRP), but it’s a five-ink printer and lacks a touchscreen.
How long will it last? Canon doesn’t publish a duty cycle for the AIO, but it feels well made. With a 100-sheet paper tray, you aren’t likely to have many long print or copy runs – jobs that put a lot of strain on a print engine. Given average home use, there’s no reason why the TS9020 shouldn’t give you two-to-three years of service, if not more.
Should you buy it? Yes, for the price, you’re getting a top-quality photo printer that also has copy and scan features. The paper tray has less capacity than we would like, and it’s awkward, but they aren’t deal breakers – especially when you are getting very good performance and great output quality.
If you print a lot, you may want to reevaluate your needs. Would an ADF, fax, and larger paper tray better serve you? If so, a printer designed for office productivity might be the better option. If photo quality is also important, in addition to those features, then a machine like the Epson XP-860 is more fulfilling. However, for the majority of home users, we think the TS9020 is a solid buy.
Editors' Recommendations Best color laser printers for 2023: tested and reviewed Photography Printer Reviews Product Reviews Computing Printers are complicated machines featuring a mix of plastics, metals, electronics, and components, some of which are potentially flagged as hazardous waste. In 2023, it's more important than ever to be kind to the planet, and there are several environmentally safe ways to dispose of a printer.
Even the best printers in the world can reach the end of their life after several years if ink or toner is no longer available. A well-loved printer can suffer from accumulated wear and tear or damage from a catastrophic power surge that's too expensive to repair.
Computing It's Black Friday, which means it is time to give expensive tech products and fun, but expensive, toys a second look. The right Black Friday deals are there to take these categories of products down in price. Where these categories of expensive tech and cool toys collide is the Meta Quest 2, a VR headset, and sure enough, it has a good sale going on over at Amazon right now. Normally $300, its price has dropped by $51 down to just $249, one of the best VR headset Black Friday deals we've seen. The really good news? This deal is here now, so you don't have to wait to buy it like you will with the rest of your post Thanksgiving shopping. In fact, if you tap the button below and buy now, and with a little shipping luck, you might have it by Thanksgiving to play with your family.
Why you should buy the Meta Quest 2 The Meta Quest 2, which dominated Steam last year, is a VR headset that gives a full 360 field of view, allows you to experience 3D positional audio, and has over 500 compatible titles between gaming, fitness, and other experiences. If you're a Twitch viewer, you may recognize it from streamers playing Meta Quest 2 games like Beat Saber or the somewhat ironically humorous Among Us VR. It refreshes at 120Hz and gives each eye a view of 1832 x 1920p.
Computing The G-series of gaming laptops from Dell represent a balance between performance and affordability. While it is positioned below the Alienware gaming laptop lineup, it manages to incorporate some of the standout features from its more expensive counterpart. It takes inspiration from its pricier cousin in terms of design and build quality, and also offers commendable thermal and graphics performance.
The company officially unveiled the 2023 G-series back in January at CES, and if you have decided to purchase a new Dell gaming laptop, then we recommend going for the latest G16 7630.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
