Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Epson EcoTank ET-8500: a picture-perfect all-in-one printer By Alan Truly Close $700.00 Excellent photo quality Fast document and photo prints Easy setup and use Fast and quiet scanner Three paper trays with wide media support SD card and USB drive support Small footprint with automatic output tray No automatic document feeder High initial cost The best inkjet printers are known for handling photos well, but a printer designed specifically for photographic quality prints takes things to the next level. Epson’s EcoTank ET-8500 is a photo printer with a built-in scanner and large ink tanks, making it a unique all-in-one solution.
Design Printing performance Special features Software and compatibility Price vs. value Is this the printer for you? We put Epson’s EcoTank ET-8500 to the test to find out how easy it is to set up and use, the performance on various paper types, and how quickly it prints documents and pictures. This is a specialized and more expensive printer, so we also check whether it’s worth the price, taking into consideration the long-term costs.
Building a home office? These Brother and Epson printers are up to 50% off Design The Epson EcoTank ET-8500 is a surprisingly compact all-in-one.
Alan Truly / Digital Trends The EcoTank ET-8500 is a surprisingly compact printer measuring 15.9 inches wide, 13.7 inches tall, and only 14.5 inches deep with its automatic output tray retracted. When printing, the tray extends forward, adding six inches to the depth. With both the rear paper tray and front output tray open, the depth reaches 24 inches.
Epson gave the EcoTank ET-8500 plenty of media options, including printing directly on CDs and DVDs. The printer has three paper trays to accommodate card stock, a variety of photo print sizes, and up to 50 sheets of letter-size paper.
The off-white body and rounded edges work well in the home or office. The front right corner features a large, adjustable 4.3-inch color touchscreen that simplifies use while standing at the printer.
The design of the EcoTank ET-8500 is thoughtful. Despite having three trays, most operations are intuitive, matching my expectations for an expensive home office printer. I did misunderstand the envelope orientation icon until I noticed the flap had a dashed line, indicating the envelope should face forward, with the seal at the back.
Printing performance Alan Truly compares draft, standard, and high-quality photos from Epson’s EcoTank ET-8500.
Tracey Truly / Digital Trends Epson claims the EcoTank ET-8500 delivers “lab-quality color photos and graphics at an incredible value.” In every print test I did on matte or glossy photo paper, pictures came out beautifully, with perfect color and crisp detail — and at a surprisingly fast pace.
On plain paper, contrast drops and colors lose saturation, as expected. Black-and-white and color documents are good. If you need the best-quality plain-paper color photos, a high-quality color laser printer might be a better choice. The EcoTank ET-8500 is intended for top-quality, vibrant, borderless photo prints worthy of framing.
Getting a hard copy that looks as good as what you see on a big, bright screen is difficult, but the EcoTank ET-8500 managed to do so again and again. The key to easily attaining photographic quality is having the correct colors and algorithms to reproduce an image accurately.
Epson’s Claria ET Premium is a six-color ink system made up of the traditional cyan, magenta, yellow, and black, along with gray and “photo black” to extend the dynamic range without losing color fidelity. Except for black, which uses pigment, all Claria ET Premium inks are dye-based.
The results are crisp, vibrant, and accurate. I agree with Epson’s claim that the EcoTank ET-8500 delivers lab-quality photo prints.
The speed is good also, as the printer rolls out up to 16 black-and-white or 12 color documents per minute. Photo prints are quick as well: under a minute for best quality 4×6 prints, about 30 seconds for standard quality, and just 15 seconds for a draft mode. I had to stare closely at the draft print for nearly a minute to find an area where fine detail was lacking. Between high quality and standard, the difference is negligible.
Special features The Epson EcoTank ET-8500’s scanner is fast and quiet.
Tracey Truly / Digital Trends Epson’s EcoTank ET-8500 isn’t just a premium ink tank photo printer. It also includes a scanner, card reader, and USB-A port for a thumb drive. The large touchscreen makes copying, scanning, and accessing drives and cards painless.
Epson limits scan quality to 600 dpi when using the mobile app or scanning to external memory. When connected to a Windows PC or a Mac , I could double the resolution to get crisp 1,200 dpi scans. Honestly, I don’t have any documents or photos that are sharp enough to benefit from such high resolution, but it’s nice to have the option.
The SD card reader and USB-A port, located behind the lower front cover at the left, offer quick access for walk-up printing and scanning without a smartphone.
As mentioned above, the EcoTank ET-8500 has three media trays, one at the rear for thick paper and envelopes and two at the front for paper, photos, and direct printing on a CD or DVD.
The Epson EcoTank ET-8500 includes a tray for printing directly on CDs and DVDs.
Tracey Truly / Digital Trends The lower tray has a CD/DVD guide stored underneath. The touchscreen and mobile app offer guidance on using this unique feature. While the use of optical discs has fallen off dramatically , photographers and videographers will appreciate the ease of custom printing a disc before handing it over to clients.
Software and compatibility Epson’s EcoTank ET-8500 uses six ink colors in large tanks, making refills rare.
Tracey Truly / Digital Trends Setting up the Epson EcoTank ET-8500 was easy using my Pixel 6a and the Epson Smart Panel app. The printer’s large touchscreen guided me along the way as well, so I could switch to whichever was more convenient at each step.
It’s worth noting that filling six ink tanks, charging the lines, and doing head alignment takes several minutes. Thankfully, this is a rare occurrence since the included ink supply should last well over a year. Epson thoughtfully gave each ink bottle a slightly different top, so you can’t fill the wrong tank.
Epson printers are common, so after setup is complete, it only takes a moment to connect to the EcoTank ET-8500 from devices running Windows, macOS, ChromeOS, iOS, and Android.
For best-quality scanning and to access every feature, I needed to install Epson software. For the basics, you can start printing, copying, and scanning right away.
Price vs. value Walk-up printing is easy since the EcoTank ET-8500 supports SD cards and USB drives.
Tracey Truly / Digital Trends The Epson EcoTank ET-8500 retails for $700, so it’s worth taking a moment to consider the long-term value before making a purchase. Note that sale prices of $550 are common.
Epson includes six full ink bottles, supplying up to two years of printing, depending on usage. It doesn’t sound like an exaggeration since the estimated yield is 6,200 pages for the most frequently used color inks: cyan, magenta, and yellow.
Individual color ink bottles cost $17.50 each, and print about 6,200 pages. Black is $20 and lasts for 6,700 pages. Photo black costs $17.50 and delivers 7,300 pages. Gray is used least, but is an important shade that costs $17.50 per bottle and lasts for a remarkable 46,600 pages.
That means a color document should cost about 1 cent, on average, while a black-and-white document costs three-tenths of a cent.
In two years, Epson estimates that you can save up to $2,000 in ink costs. That’s compared to cartridge-based printers. There are more economical inkjet tank printers , but few can match the photo quality of the EcoTank ET-8500.
Is this the printer for you? Photographers, historians, and technology enthusiasts are often frustrated by the good, but not great picture quality of many inkjet printers. If you have a discerning eye and notice color casts on photo prints, small print errors, lost detail, and other inkjet frustrations, the output of a nice photo printer is a joy to behold.
The Epson EcoTank ET-8500 is one of the best photo printers I’ve ever used. There’s no need to tweak pictures in a photo editor to adjust for print errors. Everything looks great on the first print. Even draft-quality photos have good color fidelity and sharpness. Prints are fast, reliable, and match the original picture.
Scanning is quick and quiet with good resolution. Copying is hassle-free and easy via the big, color touchscreen. I tried hard to find something I didn’t like, but the price is the only barrier to buying this printer.
Even the $700 retail price becomes reasonable if you print in volume, thanks to the large ink supply that’s included and low running costs. If you can afford the EcoTank ET-8500 and prioritize photo printing, this is a highly recommended printer.
Editors' Recommendations The best all-in-one printers you can buy in 2023 Epson crams wide-format printing into a compact, voice-activated photo printer Printer Reviews Product Reviews Computing Printers are complicated machines featuring a mix of plastics, metals, electronics, and components, some of which are potentially flagged as hazardous waste. In 2023, it's more important than ever to be kind to the planet, and there are several environmentally safe ways to dispose of a printer.
Even the best printers in the world can reach the end of their life after several years if ink or toner is no longer available. A well-loved printer can suffer from accumulated wear and tear or damage from a catastrophic power surge that's too expensive to repair.
Computing It's Black Friday, which means it is time to give expensive tech products and fun, but expensive, toys a second look. The right Black Friday deals are there to take these categories of products down in price. Where these categories of expensive tech and cool toys collide is the Meta Quest 2, a VR headset, and sure enough, it has a good sale going on over at Amazon right now. Normally $300, its price has dropped by $51 down to just $249, one of the best VR headset Black Friday deals we've seen. The really good news? This deal is here now, so you don't have to wait to buy it like you will with the rest of your post Thanksgiving shopping. In fact, if you tap the button below and buy now, and with a little shipping luck, you might have it by Thanksgiving to play with your family.
Why you should buy the Meta Quest 2 The Meta Quest 2, which dominated Steam last year, is a VR headset that gives a full 360 field of view, allows you to experience 3D positional audio, and has over 500 compatible titles between gaming, fitness, and other experiences. If you're a Twitch viewer, you may recognize it from streamers playing Meta Quest 2 games like Beat Saber or the somewhat ironically humorous Among Us VR. It refreshes at 120Hz and gives each eye a view of 1832 x 1920p.
Computing The G-series of gaming laptops from Dell represent a balance between performance and affordability. While it is positioned below the Alienware gaming laptop lineup, it manages to incorporate some of the standout features from its more expensive counterpart. It takes inspiration from its pricier cousin in terms of design and build quality, and also offers commendable thermal and graphics performance.
The company officially unveiled the 2023 G-series back in January at CES, and if you have decided to purchase a new Dell gaming laptop, then we recommend going for the latest G16 7630.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
