Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Epson Expression Home XP-4200: a budget-friendly all-in-one printer By Alan Truly Close $115.00 Low initial cost Good print quality Optional high-capacity black ink High-resolution scans and copies Compact and attractive Ink costs will add up over time Slow printing Slight blue tint in some photos Everyone likes the idea of a low-cost printer , but you have to be careful that quality doesn’t suffer to keep the price low. You also have to examine the cost of replenishing ink when determining long-term value.
Design Printing performance Special features Software and compatibility The price is right Is this the printer for you? Epson’s Expression Home XP-4200 is a budget-priced all-in-one printer that delivers good value. It outputs high-quality borderless photos on various paper types and sizes. If you’re not in a hurry, the Expression Home XP-4200 can also handle your document- and label-printing needs.
Building a home office? These Brother and Epson printers are up to 50% off Design A 4×6 print in progress on the Epson Expression Home XP-4200, with ink levels on the display.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Epson has a good eye for design, and the Expression Home XP-4200 is an attractive printer with nicely rounded curves in a satiny, charcoal-black finish. This is a very compact printer with a footprint of 14.8-inch wide by 22.7-inch deep with the output bin extended. The height is only 9.5-inch despite including a scanner.
The center control panel can tilt up for convenient viewing without crouching down. In the center, a 2.4-inch color screen is easy to read. Buttons on both sides allow you to make copies, swap ink cartridges, and control printer settings directly.
Paper loads in the back, and the tray can hold 100 pages. The paper guides are easily adjusted and clearly marked so you know which way to insert paper, envelopes, and specialty papers.
Printing performance For a low-cost printer, the Epson Expression Home XP-4200 punches above its weight. Photo prints are sharp and look nice. Depending on the subject, you might notice a slight blue cast to photos, but selecting Photo Quality Ink Jet for the media type solves this issue.
Full-page borderless prints look great, considering this is a four-color printer. You’ll need a printer designed specifically for photographic prints if you need a wider tonal range. Photo printers usually have six or more inks to expand the palette and provide greater accuracy.
Black-and-white documents are crisp and easy to read, even those with fine type. If you plan to use this printer for a home business, you’ll be waiting a little longer than with a more expensive Epson Expression Home printer. You can print 10 pages per minute in black and five ppm in color. That’s one of the few trade-offs. For the fastest speed, you should check out the best laser printers.
The Expression Home XP-4200 prints crisp text, but it’s a bit slow.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The Expression Home XP-4200 can automatically pull a printed page back in for double-sided printing. In my testing, the top-right corner tends to smear, even after adjusting settings to allow more drying time. I tested duplex printing during a period of high humidity, so that could have slowed drying.
Special features The Expression Home XP-4200 includes a high-resolution flatbed scanner.
Image used with permission by copyright holder All-in-one printers include a convenient scanner option, and Epson’s Expression Home XP-4200 supports up to 1200 dots-per-inch (dpi) resolution. Scans have great detail and accurate color, competing well with the best dedicated scanners in terms of resolution.
The scan and print functions combine to provide a handy at-home color copier. With a low-cost Expression Home XP-4200, you can get a high-quality copy with a few taps on the printer’s control panel. Enlargements and reductions are also possible.
For two-sided copies, you can also lift the flatbed cover and flip the page you’re copying since there’s no document feeder. That gives the ink extra time to dry, eliminating ink smears on double-sided copies.
Scanning and printing take a while with the Expression Home XP-4200, so you should pop out to an office store to use a commercial copier if you have a stack of documents to copy.
Epson says you can use Alexa for voice-activated printing.
Epson Many Epson printers include an option for voice-activated printing via Amazon’s Alexa or Apple’s Siri digital assistants. There are very few instances that this would be useful, but it’s worth mentioning.
I don’t have an Amazon Echo speaker, but my iPhone has Siri. Unfortunately, this Epson printer model isn’t supported by the required Epson iPrint app.
If you own a device that has Alexa , Epson says you can ask your voice assistant to print favorite Recipes from Allrecipes.com, your shopping list, calendars, and ruled paper.
Software and compatibility Epson’s mobile app helps to make setting up the Expression Home XP-4200 easy.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Epson’s Expression Home XP-4200 is a modern wireless printer that’s easy to install and use with virtually any device.
I used my iPhone with the Epson Smart Panel app guiding me through each step.
Installation is easy with a smartphone , but the head alignment process takes several minutes. Thankfully, you do this once during setup and on rare occasions when you notice line gaps in prints.
The Epson Expression Home XP-4200 requires manual print head alignment.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Connecting via Wi-Fi is painless, enabling wireless printing from iOS, Android , Windows, and macOS devices. You can also use a USB cable directly connected to a computer. In that case, you should check out our guide on printer sharing so you can print from an iPhone, iPad, or Android device.
From a computer, you can print and scan, while the mobile app also allows you to copy. Ink levels are shown as bars in colors matching the ink. You might notice the three colors drop quicker than black since the cartridge size is smaller.
The price is right With a retail price of $115, it’s hard to go wrong with the Epson Expression Home XP-4200. The only concern is the cost of ink, a common theme with inkjet printers that use cartridges.
Epson says you’ll be able to print 140 color and 150 black pages on average per cartridge. At the current price of $21 for all three color cartridges, you’ll be paying about 15 cents per page. Black costs a little less at $20 and lasts longer, so the cost is about 13 cents per page.
The expense of ink cartridges will add up quickly if you print daily or in high volume. Epson says the high-yield 232 XL black can print 380 pages. At a price of about $31, that’s more competitive, with an average black-and-white page costing 8 cents.
Epson includes starter ink cartridges, so you can begin printing right away. Still, you should pick up extra color cartridges immediately. After 14 color photos on 4×6 paper, two letter-sized borderless photos, and two color documents, the yellow cartridge was empty, while cyan and magenta were very low. As usual, black lasts a long time.
Is this the printer for you? The Epson Expression Home XP-4200 is a nice all-in-one printer for home use.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The Epson Expression Home XP-4200 is an attractive, affordable printer that can deliver good value, depending on your needs. As the name suggests, Epson designed it for home use where you aren’t printing in high volume.
The print speed would feel slow in an office, but that might not be a problem at home where you’re not on the clock.
The print, copy, and scan features all offer good quality. Unless you have a critical eye for color, the photo quality will satisfy your urge to share physical prints with family and friends.
Editors' Recommendations The best all-in-one printers you can buy in 2023 Printer Reviews Product Reviews Computing The design of Apple's Magic Mouse continues to be a major complaint among Mac users, a blight on Apple's otherwise fantastic design choices. The ergonomics are inhuman, it still uses a Lightning charging port (even on the new M3 iMac), and it can't be charged while being used.
However, an engineer has introduced his design concept that would not only solve the charging issue on the Magic Mouse but also make the design ergonomic and comfortable for natural handling.
Computing Lenovo is probably one of the best-known laptop makers, especially since they have an incredibly wide variety of them to choose from. That also means they have an excellent selection of gaming laptops, so you can hone in on something that fits your budget. That's especially the case with the ongoing early Black Friday deals that are seeing laptops being cut down in price across the board. That said, Lenovo's selection of gaming laptops is too wide for us to include all their active deals here, so we've selected some of our favorites for both AMD and Intel CPUs. Also, if you're not sure of where to start, you should check out our list of best Lenovo laptops for some good options.
Best Lenovo Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals (AMD) Lenovo has a wider selection of AMD gaming laptops, which is great if you want to go with something AMD-powered. Unfortunately, there aren't any good deals on Lenovo laptops with both an AMD CPU and GPU, but the selection below is wide enough to pick something that fits your needs a bit better. And, if you want something with an RTX 4090 on a budget, then the AMD version is probably the cheapest for Lenovo.
Computing Printers are complicated machines featuring a mix of plastics, metals, electronics, and components, some of which are potentially flagged as hazardous waste. In 2023, it's more important than ever to be kind to the planet, and there are several environmentally safe ways to dispose of a printer.
Even the best printers in the world can reach the end of their life after several years if ink or toner is no longer available. A well-loved printer can suffer from accumulated wear and tear or damage from a catastrophic power surge that's too expensive to repair.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
