Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Reviews Epson Expression Photo XP-860 review By Ted Needleman Close $299.00 Excellent photo output quality Variety of media handling Auto duplexing Loads of connectivity options Paper tray awkward to use Pricier than similar XP-820 What happens when you take a six-color photo printer, and then wrap it in a housing that contains a high-quality scanner? The answer is the Epson Expression Photo XP-860 ($300). It provides all of the utility of a multifunction printer (MFP), like scanning, copying, and faxing, but at its heart, it’s a photo printer capable of impressive quality output.
Features and design The XP-860 looks identical to its cousin, the XP-820.
 They both measure 15.4 x 13.3 x 7.5 inches, and weigh 21.5 pounds. They also have the same 4.3-inch color touchscreen on a tilting front control panel, memory card slots, and USB/PictBridge port. But the XP-860 costs $100 more, so, what gives? The best photo scanners Epson crams wide-format printing into a compact, voice-activated photo printer The major difference is the number of inks each uses. The XP-820 is a versatile five-color MFP that can print photos, but the XP-860, which uses six inks, is actually designed specially for printing photos, but can also handle other basic prints (although at fewer pages per minute, or ppm). This is also reflected in their names: the XP-820 is called an Expression Premium, while the XP-860 is an Expression Photo.
Unlike its cousin, the XP-820, the XP-860 is a photo printer first, an MFP second.
Confused yet? Think of it like this: The XP-820 is a four-function MFP with photo quality capability, while the more expensive six-color XP-860 is a photo printer that offers four-function MFP capability. Those six inks – the standard CMYK and light cyan and light magenta – give the XP-860 the ability to render very subtle hues. If you are fine with good quality photos, stick with the less expensive MFP; but if you want great photos, get the XP-860 for the extra ink.
Also, while both machines use Epson’s Claria Photo HD inks, the XP-860 uses the 277-version of standard XL high-capacity cartridges. Epson estimates that the standard black cartridge will yield about 240 pages, while the color cartridges will print about 360 pages. The yields on the XL cartridges are estimated at 500 pages for the black cartridge and 740 pages for the color cartridges. Standard capacity cartridges cost $11 each, while the XL cartridges are priced at $20 for the black ink, and $17 for each of the color cartridges.
The XP-860 has the exact same touchscreen we liked on the XP-820. It’s large, and you move through the menus by swiping horizontally and the submenus by swiping vertically. Navigation is intuitive, and the icons and menu choices themselves are straightforward.
When printing and using the scanner, having the ability to duplex (print or scan both sides of a sheet of paper) is a big plus. The XP-860 offers this, so it’s easy to make double-sided copies or fax documents that are printed on both sides of a page. The automatic document feeder (ADF) on the top can hold up to 30 pages. The main paper tray holds 100 sheets – not a lot, but it shouldn’t be a problem unless you’re printing multiple copies of a thousand-page manifesto. Like the XP-820, we did find it a bit awkward to remove and replace the paper tray – something that bugged us enough to make the “lows” list, and that’s the case here.
Another paper feed is located in the rear, directly above the duplexer. This is a single-sheet feeder and is used to feed heavier specialty stock such as cover stock or cards. The output tray is located in the front of the unit, between the tilt-out control panel and the input paper tray. It automatically extends when the printer starts a print job and can be manually retracted to refill the paper tray or to print on a CD or DVD (using the included tray). Epson provides a Print CD utility that works fairly well. We generally prefer SureThing CD Labeler, a commercial CD/DVD print application; we used both to test print a number of CDs, and had no problems.
We also tested the flatbed scanner, Scans made at 200 dpi and 300 dpi produced excellent quality images, with good detail and accurate color. Epson provides a TWAIN driver on the installation CD, so the scanner can be used with any application that supports TWAIN. We had no trouble scanning and importing a scanned image into Picasa, for example.
The paper tray is a bit awkward to remove and replace.
As mentioned, the XP-860 has slots for memory cards and a USB drive or PictBridge connection to a camera. You can scan to a memory card or USB drive, and print directly from flash media or a camera connected through PictBridge, without the use of a PC.
The XP-860 offers all of the connectivity options available for most modern printers except NFC (near field communications, or tap and print). You can connect directly to a PC using a USB cable (which is not included), an Ethernet cable to your wired network (an Ethernet cable is also not included), or via Wi-Fi, which we think is how most people will connect the printer. Remote printing is available through AppleAirPlay, Google Cloud Print, or Epson’s own Epson Connect. The XP-860 is Mopria Print Service certified, so it should also print directly from many applications on mobile devices running Android 4.4 (KitKat). When you first power up the printer, it’ll guide you through the Wi-Fi setup process (should you wish), and it’s generally foolproof.
What’s in the box The printer comes with a set of six starter cartridges, a power cord, and manuals. The single sheet tray for smaller photo paper and separate tray for CD/DVD prints are already attached. No additional cables are included.
Warranty Epson provides a limited one-year warranty, but extended service plans are available.
Click here for more details.
Setup and performance Setup provided no surprises. It’s the typical “put the install CD into a drive and let it run.” Before we could run the software installation, however, we needed to install the six ink cartridges and wait for the printer to prime, which took about 10 minutes or so. We used a direct USB connection for the actual print tests.
Epson claims an ISO (the international rating organization) print speed of 9.5 ppm in black and 9 ppm in color. We don’t use the entire test suite ISO uses, just the Word document part of it which consists of a four-page mostly monochrome document with a small color log on each page. In our tests, the XP-860 averaged 11.4 ppm, so that’s a plus. Copying proved much slower, though this finding is subjective. With most inkjet MFPs, copying is just a handy thing to have, so we don’t really think it relevant to test copy speed.
Image used with permission by copyright holder We tested image quality using three of the different papers Epson provided – Premium Photo Paper Glossy, Premium Photo Paper matte, and Bright White plain paper. Colors were completely accurate on all three papers, though saturation suffered a bit on the plain paper. This is not unusual since inks tend to wick (seep into the paper) a lot more on plain paper than they do with photo paper.
We usually advise using photo paper when printing photos, and that advice is just as applicable to the XP-860 as any other printer. But on plain paper, the quality is sufficient for business graphics and similar images that you might use in a school report.
Conclusion There’s a lot to like about the XP-860, and very little to dislike. On the plus side, it’s compact, makes great photos (thanks to the six inks), and gives you the convenience of copying, scanning, faxing, and printing, even onto CD/DVD printable discs.
The only thing we really found fault with is the paper drawer. It’s awkward getting it in and out of the printer, and you need to manually withdraw the paper output support whenever you want to access the input tray. (This was the same issue we encountered with the XP-820.) But the XP-860 excels producing excellent-quality prints. Despite the price premium, we think it deserves an EC. With that said, if you want to save $100 and don’t mind sacrificing a tad in color reproduction, the XP-820 is also just as good.
Highs Excellent photo output quality Variety of media handling Auto duplexing Loads of connectivity options Lows Paper tray awkward to use Pricier than similar XP-820 Editors' Recommendations The best photo printers Building a home office? These Brother and Epson printers are up to 50% off Photography Printer Reviews Product Reviews Computing Printers are complicated machines featuring a mix of plastics, metals, electronics, and components, some of which are potentially flagged as hazardous waste. In 2023, it's more important than ever to be kind to the planet, and there are several environmentally safe ways to dispose of a printer.
Even the best printers in the world can reach the end of their life after several years if ink or toner is no longer available. A well-loved printer can suffer from accumulated wear and tear or damage from a catastrophic power surge that's too expensive to repair.
Computing It's Black Friday, which means it is time to give expensive tech products and fun, but expensive, toys a second look. The right Black Friday deals are there to take these categories of products down in price. Where these categories of expensive tech and cool toys collide is the Meta Quest 2, a VR headset, and sure enough, it has a good sale going on over at Amazon right now. Normally $300, its price has dropped by $51 down to just $249, one of the best VR headset Black Friday deals we've seen. The really good news? This deal is here now, so you don't have to wait to buy it like you will with the rest of your post Thanksgiving shopping. In fact, if you tap the button below and buy now, and with a little shipping luck, you might have it by Thanksgiving to play with your family.
Why you should buy the Meta Quest 2 The Meta Quest 2, which dominated Steam last year, is a VR headset that gives a full 360 field of view, allows you to experience 3D positional audio, and has over 500 compatible titles between gaming, fitness, and other experiences. If you're a Twitch viewer, you may recognize it from streamers playing Meta Quest 2 games like Beat Saber or the somewhat ironically humorous Among Us VR. It refreshes at 120Hz and gives each eye a view of 1832 x 1920p.
Computing The G-series of gaming laptops from Dell represent a balance between performance and affordability. While it is positioned below the Alienware gaming laptop lineup, it manages to incorporate some of the standout features from its more expensive counterpart. It takes inspiration from its pricier cousin in terms of design and build quality, and also offers commendable thermal and graphics performance.
The company officially unveiled the 2023 G-series back in January at CES, and if you have decided to purchase a new Dell gaming laptop, then we recommend going for the latest G16 7630.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
