Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Reviews Epson Expression Premium XP-520 review Epson’s XP-520 should ditch its MFP status and focus on being a great photo printer By Ted Needleman Close $130.00 Duplexing Fast print speed for its price Excellent photo quality output No ADF Awkward, small paper tray Small LCD The “premium” in Epson’s Expression Premium XP-520 ($130) might be a bit of a misnomer. As a printer, it delivers great quality output; photos look very good even on regular inkjet paper, making it a good value from that standpoint. But as a multifunction printer (MFP), there are enough quirks and missing features that you’ll be left wondering where the premium part is.
Features and design Epson’s XP-520 is a fairly generic three-function all-in-one MFP. It can print, scan, and copy, but has no fax capability. Nor does it have the ability to print on CDs or DVDs with printable surfaces, as with some more expensive MFPs from Epson and others.
Epson crams wide-format printing into a compact, voice-activated photo printer The XP-520 shares a similar appearance to its larger brother, the Expression Premium XP-820. In fact, both share the same footprint (overall measurements of the XP-520 is 15.4 × 13.4 × 5.4 inches), except the XP-820 is taller by 2.5 inches, thanks to the noticeable automatic document feeder (ADF). The XP-520 saves you $70, but you sacrifice the convenience an ADF affords. At 21.5 pounds, the XP-520 weighs the same as the XP-820, which is strange since it lacks the ADF.
While there’s no ADF, there is a scanner platen on top, beneath the cover. A front control panel has a tiny 1.4-inch LCD that’s simply impossible to read, although it displays icons nice and large. The LCD isn’t touch capable, so you’ll need to use the navigation buttons to scroll through menus.
The XP-520 suffers from the same paper tray problem as the XP-820, and we think Epson’s designers should rethink this feature for the next batch of printers. The tray is located at the front bottom of the device, and it’s difficult to access. You must first push in the output tray to get it out of the way, in order to reach the paper input tray; you then need to pull the out tray back into place. It’s just not convenient. Also, Epson rates the tray capacity at 100 sheets, but it’s almost impossible to actually get this much paper in the tray.
The XP-520 suffers from the same poorly designed paper tray as other Epson printers.
We also experienced a problem with the follower in the tray that sets the length of the paper. When we set the follower to letter size, the pressure of placing the paper in the tray pushed the follower back to the A4 setting, which kept the paper from feeding reliably. Another annoying thing: Whenever the tray is removed and replaced, a message comes up on the LCD asking you to verify the paper type — but since you generally have to set the paper size and type in the print driver, we found this unnecessarily frustrating.
On the plus side, the XP-520 has an abundance of connectivity options suitable for home use. While it lacks a wired Ethernet port, there’s USB, Wi-Fi, and Wi-Fi Direct (which does not require a router or access point). To the left of the control panel is a slot for flash memory cards (SD, SDHC, SDXC, and Memory Stick Duo), which you can use to print directly from a card or scan directly to one, without needing a PC. The printer can also scan directly to the cloud or print from several cloud services when it’s connected to the Internet. It’s compatible with Google Cloud Print, Apple AirPrint, and Epson’s own Epson Connect.
You can also print several standard forms such as lined paper and calendars directly from the printer without it being connected to a PC.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The XP-520 uses Epson’s Claria inks, but being that it’s a photo printer, it adds a photo black to the standard mix of CMYK. This allows the printer to produce more subtle shades of gray and darker blacks, and is used only when the print driver is set for photo printing. Normally, the photo black ink is not used for non-photo documents.
The standard (273) and higher capacity (273XL) ink cartridges have fairly good yields. The standard tanks yield 273 pages in color and 300 in black; the standard black cartridge yields 300 pages, while the photo black tank can print as many as 200 4×6 photos. Each cartridge costs about $13.
The higher capacity cartridges cost $19 (except for the black cartridge, which costs $23), and yields 650 pages for the color inks, 500 for the black, and about 400 4×6 photos for photo black.
What’s in the box There’s not much packed in the box besides the XP-520. A power cord is included, as is a startup poster and a CD that contains print and scanner drivers for Windows (XP to 8) and Mac OS X (10.6 to 10.10). Also included are five starter ink cartridges.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Warranty Epson provides a limited one-year warranty, but extended service plans are available.
Click here for details.
Setup and performance Setting up the XP-520 is simple: Plug it in, insert the ink tanks, and let them prime for a bit – about five minutes. While the machine does its thing, you can install the software and drivers from the included CD. If you know your way around computers, bypass the CD and just locate drivers from the Internet. Once it’s ready to go, you can go through the menus to connect the unit to the Internet.
In both our speed and print quality tests, the XP-520 performed quite well.
In our speed test, the XP-520 did quite well. Epson rates the device as printing 9 pages per minute (ppm) in color and 9.5 ppm in black and white. Our speed test, which consists of printing a four-page document of mostly text, achieved an average print speed of just over 12 ppm.
For our image quality test, we printed three test images using two of Epson’s papers — Premium Photo Paper Glossy and Presentation Matte — and Hammermill Premium Inkjet and Laser Paper. Output on the two Epson papers was outstanding for a five-color printer – highly saturated, bright, and with accurate coloring. However, we were nicely surprised with the results on Hammermill paper, which at $12 is about twice as expensive as standard multipurpose paper. Again, colors were accurate, and while saturation suffered a bit (as it almost always does on standard papers) the overall output quality was very suitable for a school or business report with images or graphics.
The scanner has an optical resolution of up to 2,400 dpi, and produced scans that were accurate in color and features. Copying worked fine, but as with so many inkjet-based MFPs, it was like watching grass grow.
Conclusion Our feelings about Epson’s XP-520 are conflicted. It’s a step-up from the sub-$100 printers you sometimes find in supermarkets. It has great photo quality output, with the photo black ink providing razor-sharp blacks. But it also has some quirks and lack of features that we feel impact its day-to-day use (these include having to pull out the output tray after powering on the unit or loading the paper, having to verify the paper type each time the paper tray is replaced, a small LCD, and having no ADF on the scanner).
For many home users, these are minor annoyances. If you can live without the aforementioned features, the XP-520 will reward you with great image quality – great if you’re looking for an affordable photo printer. (Although the printer is still new, look for possible price drops in a few months.) But if you are looking for a workhorse MFP that you’ll use all the features on daily, we suggest you spend a bit more and get yourself the Brother MFC-J4420DW , Canon Pixma MG7520 , or even Epson’s Expression Premium 820.
 When it comes to value, it really depends on which side you sit on.
Highs Duplexing Fast print speed for its price Excellent photo quality output Lows No ADF Awkward, small paper tray Small LCD Editors' Recommendations Building a home office? These Brother and Epson printers are up to 50% off Photography Printer Reviews Product Reviews Computing Printers are complicated machines featuring a mix of plastics, metals, electronics, and components, some of which are potentially flagged as hazardous waste. In 2023, it's more important than ever to be kind to the planet, and there are several environmentally safe ways to dispose of a printer.
Even the best printers in the world can reach the end of their life after several years if ink or toner is no longer available. A well-loved printer can suffer from accumulated wear and tear or damage from a catastrophic power surge that's too expensive to repair.
Computing It's Black Friday, which means it is time to give expensive tech products and fun, but expensive, toys a second look. The right Black Friday deals are there to take these categories of products down in price. Where these categories of expensive tech and cool toys collide is the Meta Quest 2, a VR headset, and sure enough, it has a good sale going on over at Amazon right now. Normally $300, its price has dropped by $51 down to just $249, one of the best VR headset Black Friday deals we've seen. The really good news? This deal is here now, so you don't have to wait to buy it like you will with the rest of your post Thanksgiving shopping. In fact, if you tap the button below and buy now, and with a little shipping luck, you might have it by Thanksgiving to play with your family.
Why you should buy the Meta Quest 2 The Meta Quest 2, which dominated Steam last year, is a VR headset that gives a full 360 field of view, allows you to experience 3D positional audio, and has over 500 compatible titles between gaming, fitness, and other experiences. If you're a Twitch viewer, you may recognize it from streamers playing Meta Quest 2 games like Beat Saber or the somewhat ironically humorous Among Us VR. It refreshes at 120Hz and gives each eye a view of 1832 x 1920p.
Computing The G-series of gaming laptops from Dell represent a balance between performance and affordability. While it is positioned below the Alienware gaming laptop lineup, it manages to incorporate some of the standout features from its more expensive counterpart. It takes inspiration from its pricier cousin in terms of design and build quality, and also offers commendable thermal and graphics performance.
The company officially unveiled the 2023 G-series back in January at CES, and if you have decided to purchase a new Dell gaming laptop, then we recommend going for the latest G16 7630.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
