Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? You’d never believe photos this good come from a $150 printer By Alan Truly Close $239.99 Excellent photo printer Fast color prints Compact size Low price Thumb drive and SD card support High cost-per-page for color 300 dpi mobile scans Envelope printing failed Epson’s Expression Premium XP-7100 is an all-in-one printer that’s optimized for photos, but sale prices place it in the budget category. At $150, we wondered just how good a photo printer it is. We also tested its speed, ease of use, and the long-term costs of this cartridge-based printer to find out if it offers enough quality and value.
Design Printing performance Special features Software and compatibility Price Is this the printer for you? Design Alan Truly / Digital Trends The XP-7100’s black color matches its premium aspirations and would fit in nicely in a home photo studio. Home printers that are meant for casual use are often white to blend in with the decor more easily.
I don’t mind the textured black top, and the shiny faceted corners look nice. It’s also compact, particularly for an all-in-one printer that includes an automatic document feeder (ADF). It stands just 8.1 inches tall with the ADF panel open for scanning. To access the flatbed scanner, you need to lift the lid.
The footprint is 15.24 inches wide by 14.5 inches long when the trays are closed. Epson gave the Expression Premium XP-7100 a clever automatic output tray that extends when printing. The large 4.3-inch color touchscreen panel automatically tilts up at the same time. That increases the length to 23.5 inches.
There’s a USB port at the front for easy walk-up printing and scanning via a thumb drive. Its memory card slot accepts SD, SDHC, SDXC, and microSD with an adapter.
Walk-up printing with a USB drive is easy with the Expression Premium XP-7100.
Tracey Truly / Digital Trends The main paper tray tucks under the bottom and is remarkably thin for such a multifunctional mechanism. It’s completely removable, holds 100 sheets of paper up to 14 inches long, has a built-in photo tray, and includes a holder to print directly on CDs and DVDs. Envelopes and specialty paper load at the rear.
Epson packed a ton of functionality into a small space. The question is whether quality and speed are good enough with this compact design.
Printing performance I compared draft and best-quality prints on the Expression Premium XP-7100.
Tracey Truly / Digital Trends In testing, the output of the Epson Expression Premium XP-7100 was impressive. I tested borderless full-page printing, 4×6 photo printing, and plain paper printing of a variety of pictures. Color fidelity is excellent, with detailed images on photo paper and decent quality even on plain paper.
It’s no surprise that Epson knows how to build a great photo printer, but I wrongly assumed there could be some tradeoff in quality at such a low price. The Expression Premium XP-7100 uses a five-color Claria Premium ink system that’s nearly a match for Epson’s six-color variety.
A professional photographer might notice the difference, but it was a challenge for my eyes to detect the slightly better color fidelity of Epson’s EcoTank ET-8500, a six-color premium photo printer.
 That’s a much more expensive printer, but the ink tank savings would add up over time for a heavy user.
Naturally, black-and-white printing is crisp as well.
Monochrome prints are fast at 15.8 pages per minute, and double-sided printing is supported. Color doesn’t lag too far behind, rolling through 11 pages in a minute.
If you’re short on time, don’t be afraid to try “draft mode” photos. Pictures printed in draft lose a little detail but look almost as nice as normal print quality, which is nearly indistinguishable from best quality.
When printing multiple copies, it’s worth checking if the draft mode is good enough since it saves ink and prints much faster. Honestly, I doubt I would ever choose the best quality with such beautiful photo prints in the standard setting. A 4×6 is finished in just 12 seconds and looks great.
I couldn’t print an envelope with the Expression Premium XP-7100.
Tracey Truly / Digital Trends The compact paper feed seems reliable, but two 4×6 photo papers were pulled through at a time. This didn’t affect printing and could be because of higher humidity and the inherent stickiness of photo paper. The envelope test is the only place the Expression Premium XP-7100 let me down. I simply couldn’t get an envelope to print correctly after three tries. If I find a solution, I’ll update this article.
This isn’t an ideal office printer; it’s a photo printer. If you want speed and reliable document, label, and envelope printing, a laser printer is often a better choice than an inkjet.
 Overall, print speed and quality were among the best despite the envelope issue.
Special features Despite the compact size, the document feeder is quick and reliable.
Alan Truly / Digital Trends The Epson Expression Premium XP-7100 is an all-in-one printer that can serve as a scanner and color copier. Printing and copying are excellent, but scanning is its weak spot, at least the way I use a scanner.
When scanning to a mobile device, I needed the Epson iPrint app. This is an older app, and it only supports up to 300 dots per inch (dpi), which doesn’t provide enough quality if you crop in on a scan. If you scan to a USB thumb drive, an SD card, or a computer, there’s an option for 600 dpi resolution.
The thumb drive and memory card options are important for me since my computer isn’t near the printer. The lack of high-resolution scanning in the app seems like an oversight. Epson maintains the iPrint app, and the latest update was just a few weeks ago. Perhaps a fix for higher scanning density will come in a future update.
For a low-profile printer, Epson gave the Expression Premium XP-7100 a nice document feeder. The ADF performed well, quickly and reliably scanning several double-sided pages. It can handle 30 pages at a time. The flatbed scanner is quick and simple to use, making copies easy.
Software and compatibility Don’t forget to shake the Expression Premium XP-7100’s largest cartridge.
Tracey Truly / Digital Trends/ With the Epson Expression Premium XP-7100, setup begins with installing the ink cartridges and aligning the print heads. That’s pretty standard for inkjet printers, though some make use of the scanner to automate and speed up the alignment process.
Epson’s documentation cautions that you should gently shake the largest cartridge, which is black, before installation. It’s a detail that’s easily missed and could cause printing problems.
Since this is a photo printer, there are five types of ink, including the usual cyan, magenta, yellow, and black. There’s also a photo black which works better when printing pictures.
Epson’s Expression Premium XP-7100 requires four color cartridges and one black.
Tracey Truly / Digital Trends Epson includes a plastic bag to store the ink caps that need to be removed. It can be messy, so roll up your sleeves before starting.
After installation, the printer takes a few minutes to prepare the ink cartridge. The next step was connecting to Wi-Fi. Epson doesn’t mention a mobile app in its quick start guide, so I connected manually. Since my printer is upstairs, I used my router’s longer-range 2.4GHz band.
Connecting via a Mac or Windows PC is easy and effortless. You’ll need to install Epson apps to access every feature, but for printing, you can use system software.
From an iPhone, you can print without an app. On Android , I installed the Epson Print Enabler, which serves as a driver. To use the scanner, I discovered I needed the Epson iPrint app. It also provides more control over printing. Honestly, the printer handles documents and pictures effortlessly, so you only need the app for scanning and monitoring ink levels from your phone.
Price The Epson Expression Premium XP-7100 retails for $240, but sale prices are closer to $150 in multiple retailers. That makes the upfront cost very low for such a high-quality photo printer and all-in-one device.
Long-term ink costs are actually the most important consideration for cartridge-based inkjet printers. A four-pack of the color cartridges costs $48.29, good for about 300 color documents. That makes color print cost as much as 16 cents per page.
Epson says four high-capacity color cartridges last for about 650 pages. That comes to $75.96, lowering the cost of an average color document to 12 cents. That’s better, but still expensive.
Black-and-white printing costs between 4 and 5 cents per page, but as a photo printer, I wouldn’t use much black ink.
Is this the printer for you? Epson’s Expression Premium XP-7100 can print beautiful photos quickly and handles most monochrome printing tasks well. Scanning and copying with the flatbed and document feeder works well with a thumb drive, memory card, and computer.
If you need to do medium to high-volume photo printing, the Expression Premium XP-7100 will get expensive in a hurry since Epson’s Premium Claria ink cartridges are relatively costly for low-yield ink cartridges that require four to print in color and one for monochrome.
The printer is thoughtfully designed and well-made but has some rough edges when it comes to printing envelopes and scanning to a mobile device.
Overall, I was impressed with the print quality, but I wish the cost per page was lower. It’s a great choice for a photography enthusiast who wants to occasionally print their best pictures to share with friends and family. If you want to print in color daily or make lots of color copies, another photo printer might suit your needs better.
Printer Reviews Product Reviews Computing The design of Apple's Magic Mouse continues to be a major complaint among Mac users, a blight on Apple's otherwise fantastic design choices. The ergonomics are inhuman, it still uses a Lightning charging port (even on the new M3 iMac), and it can't be charged while being used.
However, an engineer has introduced his design concept that would not only solve the charging issue on the Magic Mouse but also make the design ergonomic and comfortable for natural handling.
Computing Lenovo is probably one of the best-known laptop makers, especially since they have an incredibly wide variety of them to choose from. That also means they have an excellent selection of gaming laptops, so you can hone in on something that fits your budget. That's especially the case with the ongoing early Black Friday deals that are seeing laptops being cut down in price across the board. That said, Lenovo's selection of gaming laptops is too wide for us to include all their active deals here, so we've selected some of our favorites for both AMD and Intel CPUs. Also, if you're not sure of where to start, you should check out our list of best Lenovo laptops for some good options.
Best Lenovo Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals (AMD) Lenovo has a wider selection of AMD gaming laptops, which is great if you want to go with something AMD-powered. Unfortunately, there aren't any good deals on Lenovo laptops with both an AMD CPU and GPU, but the selection below is wide enough to pick something that fits your needs a bit better. And, if you want something with an RTX 4090 on a budget, then the AMD version is probably the cheapest for Lenovo.
Computing Printers are complicated machines featuring a mix of plastics, metals, electronics, and components, some of which are potentially flagged as hazardous waste. In 2023, it's more important than ever to be kind to the planet, and there are several environmentally safe ways to dispose of a printer.
Even the best printers in the world can reach the end of their life after several years if ink or toner is no longer available. A well-loved printer can suffer from accumulated wear and tear or damage from a catastrophic power surge that's too expensive to repair.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
