Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Reviews Epson SureColor P600 review If you seek terrific coloring, Epson’s SureColor P600 delivers the hues By Ted Needleman Close $800.00 Excellent color accuracy and saturation Extensive media handling, including roll paper Black inks great for monochrome and color prints Limited to 13 inches Must manually cut prints off roll paper Pricey inks The SureColor P600 ($800) is Epson’s latest “prosumer” photo printer. It offers exceptional support for various media up to 13 inches, and uses Epson’s newly formulated UltraChrome HD inks in nine colors – four of which are blacks and grays – to produce terrific color and monochrome prints.
Features and design The printer itself is fairly nondescript. When not in use, it’s simply a glossy, textured black rectangular box. The controls are located on the right side of the front-panel, where you’ll find a 2.7-inch color touch screen. This display is used to set up the printer and Wi-Fi, load media and roll paper, check ink levels, and perform maintenance functions such as nozzle checks and printhead cleaning.
Building a home office? These Brother and Epson printers are up to 50% off No wide-format printer is light in weight or svelte, and the P600 will need a lot of desk space or even a table of its own (it measures 24.2 x 32 x 16.7 inches). At 35 pounds, the weight is manageable and we were able to move and unpack the printer single-handedly.
The P600 has three paper feeds – two of which are located at the rear of the printer. The primary paper tray holds up to 120 sheets of plain paper or 30 sheets of photo paper up to 13 inches wide. The second rear paper feed is used when you want to print on roll paper. There are two paper holders included in the packaging, and these are placed on either end of the paper roll, which it then attached to the printer; a door in the rear-panel opens up to feed the paper, which is activated via the touchscreen.
The third paper feed is exposed when you pull down the front-panel, which also exposes the output tray. This single-sheet feeder is for heavier art and specialty papers. It is also where you feed the included tray used for printing on printable optical media (blank CDs and DVDs).
The nine 25.9ml UltraChrome HD pigment-based inks include Photo B­lack, Matte Black, Light Black, Light Light Black (yes, there are two “lights”), Cyan, Magenta, Yellow, Light Cyan, and Light Magenta. This wide range of ink colors gives the P600 an excellent color gamut.
The printer automatically switches between the Photo Black and Matte Black depending upon what driver and paper settings are used. Prices for the inks are $32 each (retail price). With specialty photo printers, it’s difficult to estimate yields because it depends on how many of prints of differing sizes and what the images are, and that varies from user to user. An average 8 x 10 is going to cost between $1 and $2 per print, and a 13 x 17 inch print can average from about $3 and up, depending on the paper being used. Since there are nine cartridges to replace, cost for supplies will add up over time.
As for connectivity, the P600 supports USB 2.0, Ethernet, Wi-Fi, and Wi-Fi Direct. The printer is also compatible with Apple AirPrint, Google Cloud Print, Epson Connect, and Epson iPrint mobile app What’s in the box Besides the printer, you get nine starter ink cartridges, CDs for Windows and Mac OS X installation, a power cord, roll paper holders, and a special tray to print on printable CDs and DVDs Warranty Epson provides a one-year limited warranty. Optional are extended service plans that cost $120 (one year) and $236 (two years).
Performance and use As with most modern printers, setting up the P600 is easy. After inserting the ink cartridges, the printer primes the ink for about 10 minutes. We connected it using Wi-Fi, and since it supports Wi-Fi Protected Setup (WPS), pairing it with our home network involved some simple button pushes on the printer and a Netgear Nighthawk X6 router/access point. The installation disc loaded Epson’s Professional Drivers and the Print CD utility for printing blank discs; we’ve used Epson’s utility to print on optical media, and while it does an okay job, we prefer Surething’s CD Labeler application.
The wide range of ink colors gives the P600 an excellent color gamut.
Because wide-format photo printers are generally slow, we didn’t test the P600’s print speed. After all, this machine is for making beautiful photos and graphics (max resolution of 5,760 x 1,440 dpi), not multi-page book reports, so we don’t see it as a con. Printing a large Super B (13 x 19 inch) image can take five minutes or more, while an 8 x 10 print can take a minute or two. It all depends on what paper and driver settings are being used; it’s not uncommon to wait 20-30 minutes, if you’re using the best paper and RAW image files. If the printer has to switch between Photo and Matte Blacks, you need to add another minute or so to the time. You’re definitely trading speed for great quality, and we’re finding the P600 is just as fast as Canon’s Pixma Pro-1.
The DT Accessory Pack Up your game and the get the most out of your gear with the following extras, hand-picked by our editors: AmazonBasics USB 2.0 Cable (10 feet) ($5.19) Nearly all printers come without a USB cable. If you prefer to hardwire the P600 to your computer, an affordable USB cable should suffice.
Epson Exhibition Canvas Matte 13 x 20 Roll ($34) With its ability to print on roll paper that’s 13-inches wide, you can create banners or wide-format canvas prints using this specialty media.
Epson T760 Ultrachrome HD Ink Cartridge Set ($280) Replacement inks aren’t exactly cheap, but you save some money by buying all nine inks at once, plus this deal throws in photo paper.
Image quality is impressive and matched the reference prints we produced on a calibrated Stylus Pro 3880, which we use as our reference printer. (We used Epson’s Premium Photo Paper Glossy and Premium Presentation Paper Matte.) Because the P600 uses a newer ink system, the prints have a slight visual pop in color that we like. Of course, if color accuracy is more important than visual appeal, the driver has extensive color adjustment capability. And, if you own a spectrocolorimeter like an X-Rite ColorMunki or DataColor Spyder, you can precisely calibrate the printer to a specific batch of paper.
Additionally, having all those black colors does two things: the monochrome prints we generated look great, and on both the color and monochrome prints there’s excellent definition in shadowed areas where detail just doesn’t fade into the background.
Conclusion With its extensive media-handling capability and excellent print quality, the P600 is an excellent companion to a high-end prosumer camera kit. If we must nit-pick about something, it’s the lack of a roll paper cutter that slices the print off the roll when finished and the 13-inch limitation of paper width. Other than these very minor complaints, Epson’s newest offering for the serious photographer is an excellent choice. If you need to make larger prints, the next step up in Epson’s photo line is the Stylus Pro 3880 , which does not have roll paper or CD/DVD print capability but can print on 17-inch wide media.
Highs Excellent color accuracy and saturation Extensive media handling, including roll paper Black inks great for monochrome and color prints Lows Limited to 13 inches Must manually cut prints off roll paper Pricey inks Editors' Recommendations Best color laser printers for 2023: tested and reviewed Photography Printer Reviews Product Reviews Computing Printers are complicated machines featuring a mix of plastics, metals, electronics, and components, some of which are potentially flagged as hazardous waste. In 2023, it's more important than ever to be kind to the planet, and there are several environmentally safe ways to dispose of a printer.
Even the best printers in the world can reach the end of their life after several years if ink or toner is no longer available. A well-loved printer can suffer from accumulated wear and tear or damage from a catastrophic power surge that's too expensive to repair.
Computing It's Black Friday, which means it is time to give expensive tech products and fun, but expensive, toys a second look. The right Black Friday deals are there to take these categories of products down in price. Where these categories of expensive tech and cool toys collide is the Meta Quest 2, a VR headset, and sure enough, it has a good sale going on over at Amazon right now. Normally $300, its price has dropped by $51 down to just $249, one of the best VR headset Black Friday deals we've seen. The really good news? This deal is here now, so you don't have to wait to buy it like you will with the rest of your post Thanksgiving shopping. In fact, if you tap the button below and buy now, and with a little shipping luck, you might have it by Thanksgiving to play with your family.
Why you should buy the Meta Quest 2 The Meta Quest 2, which dominated Steam last year, is a VR headset that gives a full 360 field of view, allows you to experience 3D positional audio, and has over 500 compatible titles between gaming, fitness, and other experiences. If you're a Twitch viewer, you may recognize it from streamers playing Meta Quest 2 games like Beat Saber or the somewhat ironically humorous Among Us VR. It refreshes at 120Hz and gives each eye a view of 1832 x 1920p.
Computing The G-series of gaming laptops from Dell represent a balance between performance and affordability. While it is positioned below the Alienware gaming laptop lineup, it manages to incorporate some of the standout features from its more expensive counterpart. It takes inspiration from its pricier cousin in terms of design and build quality, and also offers commendable thermal and graphics performance.
The company officially unveiled the 2023 G-series back in January at CES, and if you have decided to purchase a new Dell gaming laptop, then we recommend going for the latest G16 7630.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
