Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Reviews Epson WorkForce WF-2660 review Made for contracts and spreadsheets, but Epson’s WF-2660 is capable for homework and photos too.
By Ted Needleman Close $150.00 Fast print speeds Duplex printing and ADF Photo quality color and saturation on photo paper Standard ink cartridges have low page yields Touchscreen limited to taps, no swipes No media card reader Epson’s WorkForce WF-2660 ($150 MSRP) is one of the smaller, less-expensive small office/home office multifunction printers (MFP) that use the company’s PrecisionCore printhead technology. As with the WF-3640 we reviewed, PrecisionCore adds a considerable number of nozzles to the printhead (using microelectromechanical systems, or MEMS, fabrication), allowing much faster print speeds compared to the older micropiezo technology.
But as lower-price model, Epson had to make some cuts. Performance wise, it’s not as fast as the WF-3640 in printing, copying, and scanning (the WF-3640 uses a two-chip PrecisionCore printhead, while the WF-2660 uses a single chip configuration). The WF-2660’s ink cartridges, while using the same type of ink as its bigger sibling, have smaller capacity. There’s so also no built-in memory card reader.
Epson crams wide-format printing into a compact, voice-activated photo printer PrecisionCore allows for a greater print density to produce a larger color gamut, as well as faster drying times.
When you compare the WF-2660 to typical all-in-ones (AIO) for home use, however (like Epson’s Expression series), you get a heavy-duty print cycle (Epson rates the WF-2660 with a maximum duty cycle of 3,000 pages, although it also notes that 800 pages per month is a more realistic print load). Most home AIOs meant don’t even bother quoting a duty cycle. Plus, photo-quality prints can be achieved when using the appropriate paper. The WF-2660 is attractive for those looking for an affordable printer that can churn out a lot of copies.
Features and design As mentioned, the four-function WF-2660 (print, copy, scan, fax) is one of Epson’s less expensive models with PrecisionCore. With a larger number of nozzles than Epson’s other printheads, PrecisionCore allows for a greater print density of smaller ink droplets to produce a larger color gamut (number of printable colors), and the smaller droplets speeds up drying time. The process is far more technical, but essentially the technology offers faster print speeds and better colors than conventional printheads.
Unlike the WF-3640 we last looked at, the WF-2660 is smaller at 16.7 x 14.2 x 9.1 inches, and almost half as lightweight at 14.6 pounds. Extending the output tray adds another 5 inches to the depth.
But the small size impacts both the control panel and paper drawer. The paper drawer is located at the very bottom, and it’s designed in a way that we found it just a little awkward to load, due to output tray that’s located directly above. The input tray has a capacity for 150 sheets of letter size paper; it’s not a lot, but the printer supports automatic duplexing (two-sided printing). On the top there is an automatic document feeder (ADF), but this particular feature doesn’t duplex.
The control panel has a 2.7-inch color touchscreen. To the right it is a numeric keypad and the various buttons for making copies, as well as reset and stop. Most of the unit’s functions are accessed via the touchscreen. While the touchscreen is easy to navigate, it doesn’t support the swiping gestures many of us have gotten used to with our smartphones and tablets; rather, you need to use a combination of screen taps to scroll through menus, which can be disorienting until you get used to it. Unless you make or fax a lot of copies, the numeric keypad is mostly useless for everyday printing.
The downside is its small-yield standard ink cartridges – opt for the XL tanks.
While the WF-2660 has the typical features one would expect from an MFP, where it’s lacking is in the standard cartridge yield. The four-color machine uses standard cartridges (number 220) that yield approximately 175 pages in black and 165 pages in color. If you have a lot of printing going on in your house, you’ll be replacing them pretty often, so you may want to opt for XL tanks. The WF-2660 supports the 220XL cartridges that have considerable higher page yields – 500 pages for black and 450 pages for color cartridges (cyan, magenta, and yellow). On the bright side, the ink cartridges aren’t expensive. The standard yield cartridges are priced at $13 for black and $9 each for color; the high-yield cartridges are $30 for black and $17 for each color cartridge.
The WF-2660 may be small in size, but it’s large in connectivity options. You can connect it directly to a PC via USB, to a network via wired Ethernet or Wi-Fi, or print to it directly using Wi-Fi Direct or near-field communication ( NFC ). You can also access the printer remotely using Epson’s own Epson Connect, Apple AirPrint, or Google Cloud Print.
What’s in the box The WF-2660 comes with four DURABrite Ultra pigment ink cartridges, a power cord, setup poster, quick-start manual, and an installation CD. Bring your own USB cable, and telephone cord for the fax function.
Warranty Image used with permission by copyright holder Epson provides a limited one-year warranty, but extended service plans are available.
Click here for details.
Setup and performance Setting up printers are largely problem free, but maneuvering through some of the WF-2660’s setup menus is not as intuitive as it could be. Priming the printhead and installing the software took about 20 minutes, which is standard.
The WF-2660 proved equally adept in print quality and print speeds.
Epson rates the MFP at 13 pages-per-minute in black and 7.3 ppm in color. In our print test, which consists of a mostly monochrome document with a small color image, the WF-2660 turned in an average speed of 11.4 ppm – not bad for a small inexpensive MFP.
The WF-2660 proved equally adept in print quality. Monochrome text is razor sharp, and on our three test images, colors and saturation was spot on when using Epson’s Premium Photo Paper Glossy, although somewhat under-saturated when using Epson’s Premium Presentation Matte paper and Hammermill’s Premium Inkjet and Laser paper. We should note that, unlike home photo inkjets, Epson doesn’t market this four-color business MFP as a photo printer, but from our tests, it’s clearly capable.
Regardless of paper used, print quality should be fine for even the most demanding print jobs most home users are likely to have. Note: Unlike some of Epson’s Expression-series printers, you cannot print onto printable CDs or DVDs.
Copying is the typical slow operation we’ve come to expect from an inkjet, and making a double-sided copy requires manually duplexing the two-sided document. Scanning worked well using Epson’s software, and the scanner is accessible from any TWAIN-compatible application, like the Picasa 3.0 software we use for testing.
Conclusion The WF-2660 packs a lot of functionality into a small form factor. It offers numerous connectivity options, including NFC. Productivity users will appreciate the ADF and PrecisionCore technology for faster, vibrant prints, while most home users will like the photo quality output on the right type of paper.
One thing we will point out is, at list price, the WF-2660 is only $50 less expensive than the WF-3640 and $20 less than the WF-3620. Those models are bulkier, but you get faster speeds and more features (a quick browse on the Internet pulled up even lower prices; look for rebates from Epson). The WF-2660 is also priced higher than consumer four-color MFPs, but we the PrecisionCore is a nice feature to have as it delivers better performance.
Highs Fast print speeds Duplex printing and ADF Photo quality color and saturation on photo paper Lows Standard ink cartridges have low page yields Touchscreen limited to taps, no swipes No media card reader Editors' Recommendations Building a home office? These Brother and Epson printers are up to 50% off Photography Printer Reviews Product Reviews Computing Printers are complicated machines featuring a mix of plastics, metals, electronics, and components, some of which are potentially flagged as hazardous waste. In 2023, it's more important than ever to be kind to the planet, and there are several environmentally safe ways to dispose of a printer.
Even the best printers in the world can reach the end of their life after several years if ink or toner is no longer available. A well-loved printer can suffer from accumulated wear and tear or damage from a catastrophic power surge that's too expensive to repair.
Computing It's Black Friday, which means it is time to give expensive tech products and fun, but expensive, toys a second look. The right Black Friday deals are there to take these categories of products down in price. Where these categories of expensive tech and cool toys collide is the Meta Quest 2, a VR headset, and sure enough, it has a good sale going on over at Amazon right now. Normally $300, its price has dropped by $51 down to just $249, one of the best VR headset Black Friday deals we've seen. The really good news? This deal is here now, so you don't have to wait to buy it like you will with the rest of your post Thanksgiving shopping. In fact, if you tap the button below and buy now, and with a little shipping luck, you might have it by Thanksgiving to play with your family.
Why you should buy the Meta Quest 2 The Meta Quest 2, which dominated Steam last year, is a VR headset that gives a full 360 field of view, allows you to experience 3D positional audio, and has over 500 compatible titles between gaming, fitness, and other experiences. If you're a Twitch viewer, you may recognize it from streamers playing Meta Quest 2 games like Beat Saber or the somewhat ironically humorous Among Us VR. It refreshes at 120Hz and gives each eye a view of 1832 x 1920p.
Computing The G-series of gaming laptops from Dell represent a balance between performance and affordability. While it is positioned below the Alienware gaming laptop lineup, it manages to incorporate some of the standout features from its more expensive counterpart. It takes inspiration from its pricier cousin in terms of design and build quality, and also offers commendable thermal and graphics performance.
The company officially unveiled the 2023 G-series back in January at CES, and if you have decided to purchase a new Dell gaming laptop, then we recommend going for the latest G16 7630.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
