Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Epson WorkForce WF-2930: a low-cost home office printer with a fax By Alan Truly Close $110.00 Low initial cost Good print quality Optional high-capacity black ink High-resolution scans and copies Compact and attractive Ink costs will add up over time Slow printing Document feeder has some issues Not everyone these days needs a fax. Okay, let’s be honest — most people don’t. But some do, and for those people, an all-in-home solution can be expensive.
Design Printing performance Special features Software and compatibility Budget pricing Is this the printer for you? Epson’s WorkForce WF-2930 printer is a very low-cost, all-in-one solution that’s designed for the home office.
 Keeping the price low while delivering the features required for work is demanding, so we tested the WorkForce WF-2930 to check whether Epson could find the right balance.
HP’s Work from Home service brings the office printer into your home Design Epson’s WorkForce WF-2930 is small for a work-focused printer that combines color printing, scanning, copying, and faxing. It occupies just 22.7-by-14.8 inches of your desk space, standing 9.5 inches tall.
It will look good in your home office with its diffuse, charcoal-black finish, rounded corners, and glossy control panel. The center panel tilts up for easy viewing, and the color display is readable despite its small 1.4-inch size.
Epson’s WorkForce WF-2930 is compact and stylish.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The WorkForce WF-2930 isn’t a touchscreen model, but large buttons on either side work well, and it’s simple to navigate the menu system with the arrows, back, and OK buttons. There’s also a number pad for the fax feature.
The printer is well-made and adjustable parts are clearly labeled, making it obvious how to load paper for printing and insert documents into the automatic feeder for scanning and faxing. The top panel is thicker than some all-in-one printers since this also has a document feeder and bin to catch documents after digital capture.
The line port to connect a phone line for faxing is at the back, alongside an extension port to plug in a phone and a USB port to physically connect a computer.
A side view of the Epson WorkForce WF-2930 shows the paper tray is a bit hidden from the front.
Image used with permission by copyright holder One note about the design, it can be hard to see the paper guides at the back if you place the WorkForce WF-2930 on a counter-height standing desk. At 6 feet tall, I can lean over and see the guides, but my wife has to go to the side when adjusting to a different paper size.
Printing performance The Epson WorkForce WF-2930 is a remarkably affordable inkjet printer with good color accuracy and sufficient detail in photo prints. As an office printer, the text is crisp, easy to read, and color documents look nice.
The Epson WorkForce WF-2930 makes good photographic prints.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The print speed of 10 pages per minute (ppm) in black-and-white and five ppm in color will leave you waiting longer than more expensive models. That’s to be expected — Epson does pitch this as a home office printer rather than as a solution for a fast-paced workroom.
Double-sided printing worked reliably and yielded good results overall, but had a smear at the edge on the first print. After printing one side, the printer rolls the paper back in, flips it over, and prints side two without human assistance.
That makes a big difference when you want to print a long document without creating a large stack of paper.
Special features The Epson WorkForce WF-2930’s automatic document feeder is loaded.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Epson WorkForce WF-2930 is a four-way all-in-one printer, including printing, scanning, copying, and faxing. This single device covers all those needs, which might be ideal for setting up a small business or occasionally working from home.
Scans are high quality, allowing up to 600 dot-per-inch when using the mobile app and as much as 1,200 dpi from a computer. The automatic document feeder (ADF) lets you place a stack of up to 30 sheets of paper and move on to other tasks.
Unfortunately, the ADF has a couple of problems. If you use the mobile app, you can’t multitask while scanning. If you switch to another app, scanning stops. The Android app doesn’t support split-screen, but it works on an iPad. From a computer, the scanner can run in the background.
A more troubling problem occurs if you load the ADF with thin or old paper that is delicate. My old school paper got jammed. The WorkForce WF-2930 detected the problem, and removal was easy, but the page was wrinkled slightly. Even with new paper, you can see the feeder causes some bowing as the paper gets pulled in. When scanning old documents or something particularly important, it’s best to use the flatbed scanner.
Old and delicate paper could get wrinkled in the WorkForce WF-2930’s ADF.
Digital Trends I wasn’t able to test the fax feature since I use a smartphone exclusively for calls and don’t have a physical phone line. The technology is over 60 years old, so there shouldn’t be any new surprises when faxing with the WorkForce WF-2930’s high-quality scanner and printer.
Software and compatibility With Epson’s Smart Panel app, you can take care of anything you need from the WorkForce WF-2930, walking you through installation relatively quickly. You do need to print a few inkjet head alignment pages to visually assess and guide the printer to get the best quality. Some competing all-in-one printers use the built-in scanner to automate this process.
I set up the Epson WorkForce WF-2930 with my Google Pixel 6a.
Image used with permission by copyright holder It’s compatible with iOS and Android. I used my Pixel 6a for the initial setup but connected easily with my iPhone as well. If you use Windows, a Mac, or a Chromebook, the printer should be recognized immediately. If you need a driver, the operating system guides you through the process.
You can use a USB printer cable (not included) or connect via Wi-Fi. If you do choose a direct cable connection, you might want to check out our guide to printer sharing so the Epson WorkForce WF-2930 is accessible on your iPhone or Android phone as well.
Epson provides access to software utilities for scanning and faxing from your computer.
Budget pricing At $110, the WorkForce WF-2930 has a price that sounds too good to be true. Epson had to minimize costs to make such an affordable printer, but it didn’t cut corners on print or scan quality. Print speed is affected, however, as well as ink capacity. Waiting a little longer is fine for most home offices. Ink costs will begin to add up, though.
You’ll need to replenish ink frequently on the low-cost WorkForce WF-2930.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The starter ink cartridges that ship with the printer will run low quickly, so it’s best to order another set immediately. With a full black cartridge ($20), Epson estimates you can print 150 pages. A high-capacity 232 XL black cartridge ($31) lasts for 380 pages. A complete set of color cartridges ($21 total) provides about 140 color documents.
That’s for an average document that prints ink on a portion of the page. Photo prints use much more ink since they cover a page entirely. The bottom line is that you’ll pay 8 to 15 cents per document and much more for a full-page borderless photo print. It looks great, but the expenses add up quickly if you become enamored with printing photographs.
Is this the printer for you? Epson’s WorkForce WF-2930 is a good option for work-from-home use where you don’t anticipate frequently rolling through reams of paper. The print quality is excellent for documents and photos. Scans are crisp and capture color accurately as well. Epson combined those features to let you make color copies at home. This all-in-one can even work as a facsimile machine.
You’ll need to spend a bit more if you need fast printing. That’s one of the tradeoffs to keep the cost of the WorkForce WF-2930 so low. Another potential concern is ink costs. The high-capacity black is a must-have to reduce the cost of black-and-white documents and labels. For color, there’s only one size — small.
Consider an inkjet printer with larger cartridges or a tank printer if you anticipate printing more than a few photos.
Epson’s EcoTank ET-2850 is a good option for volume color printing.
 If you don’t need office features, the Epson Expression Home XP-4200 might be a better fit.
If you’re just getting started in your business or find the need to print, scan, copy, and fax on the days you work from home, the Epson WorkForce WF-2930 is a great choice.
Editors' Recommendations The best all-in-one printers you can buy in 2023 Building a home office? These Brother and Epson printers are up to 50% off Printer Reviews Product Reviews Work From Home Computing Lenovo is probably one of the best-known laptop makers, especially since they have an incredibly wide variety of them to choose from. That also means they have an excellent selection of gaming laptops, so you can hone in on something that fits your budget. That's especially the case with the ongoing early Black Friday deals that are seeing laptops being cut down in price across the board. That said, Lenovo's selection of gaming laptops is too wide for us to include all their active deals here, so we've selected some of our favorites for both AMD and Intel CPUs. Also, if you're not sure of where to start, you should check out our list of best Lenovo laptops for some good options.
Best Lenovo Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals (AMD) Lenovo has a wider selection of AMD gaming laptops, which is great if you want to go with something AMD-powered. Unfortunately, there aren't any good deals on Lenovo laptops with both an AMD CPU and GPU, but the selection below is wide enough to pick something that fits your needs a bit better. And, if you want something with an RTX 4090 on a budget, then the AMD version is probably the cheapest for Lenovo.
Computing Printers are complicated machines featuring a mix of plastics, metals, electronics, and components, some of which are potentially flagged as hazardous waste. In 2023, it's more important than ever to be kind to the planet, and there are several environmentally safe ways to dispose of a printer.
Even the best printers in the world can reach the end of their life after several years if ink or toner is no longer available. A well-loved printer can suffer from accumulated wear and tear or damage from a catastrophic power surge that's too expensive to repair.
Computing It's Black Friday, which means it is time to give expensive tech products and fun, but expensive, toys a second look. The right Black Friday deals are there to take these categories of products down in price. Where these categories of expensive tech and cool toys collide is the Meta Quest 2, a VR headset, and sure enough, it has a good sale going on over at Amazon right now. Normally $300, its price has dropped by $51 down to just $249, one of the best VR headset Black Friday deals we've seen. The really good news? This deal is here now, so you don't have to wait to buy it like you will with the rest of your post Thanksgiving shopping. In fact, if you tap the button below and buy now, and with a little shipping luck, you might have it by Thanksgiving to play with your family.
Why you should buy the Meta Quest 2 The Meta Quest 2, which dominated Steam last year, is a VR headset that gives a full 360 field of view, allows you to experience 3D positional audio, and has over 500 compatible titles between gaming, fitness, and other experiences. If you're a Twitch viewer, you may recognize it from streamers playing Meta Quest 2 games like Beat Saber or the somewhat ironically humorous Among Us VR. It refreshes at 120Hz and gives each eye a view of 1832 x 1920p.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
