Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Photography Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best portable photo printers By Hillary K. Grigonis Close After snapping a photo with a phone, wouldn’t it be convenient to print those photos on a device that’s not much bigger? Thanks to Wi-Fi and inkless print technology, that’s actually possible.
HP Sprocket Photo Printer Polaroid Zip Wireless Mobile Mini Printer Canon Ivy Mini Lifeprint Slim Photo and Video Printer Fujifilm INSTAX Share SP-3 Fujifilm Instax Mini Link Canon SELPHY QX10 Canon Selphy CP1300 See more Best instant cameras How to print from an iPhone and iPad Best printers Just like the best camera is the one that’s with you, sometimes the best photo printer is a portable one. These devices are compact, easy to use, and transform your digital selfie into a physical keepsake. While most portable printers use the same 2 x 3-inch Zink paper and offer similar quality, some print as large as 4 x 6 sinches. Others use actual instant film instead of paper, and there are advantages and disadvantages to both methods.
HP Sprocket Photo Printer Image used with permission by copyright holder The HP Sprocket Photo Printer will print 2 x 3-inch photos directly from your smartphone or tablet using the app by the same name. The printer works with both Android and iOS, and all you need is a Bluetooth connection. The Sprocket is also roughly the size of a smartphone and weights a mere 6 ounces, allowing it to fit just about anywhere. The accompanying mobile app even allows you to customize your photos before you print, letting you make the most of HP’s 10-sheet packs.
The best free photo-editing software for 2023 The best webcams for 2023 The best 360-degree camera apps for iOS and Android Polaroid Zip Wireless Mobile Mini Printer Image used with permission by copyright holder With the Polaroid Zip , there’s simply no need to shake your prints like a Polaroid picture. The aptly named printer offers up 2 x 3-inch smudge-proof prints from a Bluetooth-connected mobile device. The resulting photos are waterproof, tear-proof, and have a sticky back that allows you to place your photos anywhere you’d like. Downloading the Polaroid app for either iOS and Android opens up more possibilities, giving you a means for enhancing your photos on the go. The travel-friendly printer is pocket-sized, too, and weighs just 6.6 ounces.
Canon Ivy Mini Image used with permission by copyright holder The Canon Ivy Mini prints your favorite Instagram and Facebook photos directly from your smartphone. Download the app to customize and print your pictures, then easily sync the Ivy to your phone via Bluetooth. The printer uses the same Zink paper as the above two models, giving it a portable design without the need for ink cartridges. While mini Zink printers have been around for years, the Ivy is Canon’s first foray into the product category.
Lifeprint Slim Photo and Video Printer Lifeprint Want something more than a static print? Lifeprint’s Augmented Reality Hyperphotos uses standard Zink paper but create prints that move when you scan them with its mobile app. The printer has a larger 3 x 4.5-inch option for bigger prints, or a 2×3 sized printer. Thanks to the unique Hyperphoto technology, you can print live photos from Snapchat, Twitter, Facebook, and Instagram. You can also easily add filters, text, memes, and stickers through the Lifeprint App. The Lifeprint Slim is the company’s newest model that, as the name suggests, is even more portable than the original.
Fujifilm INSTAX Share SP-3 Image used with permission by copyright holder Unlike rest of the mobile photo printers on this list, the Fujifilm INSTAX Share SP-3 Printer doesn’t use Zink paper, but transfers your smartphone photos to actual film. Images are printed on 2.4 x 2.4-inch Instax Square film, a format that’s ideal for printing out your Instagrams. Select your best pictures from your smartphone and simply transfer the photos from the app via a Wi-Fi connection. When you download the INSTAX share app you can add text, split the photo, make a collage, and add a filter to your images.
Fujifilm Instax Mini Link Hillary Grigonis/Digital Trends If the SP-3 is too square (literally) for you, the Fujifilm Instax Mini Link uses the easy-to-find Instax mini film. Like other Instax printers, the Mini Link transfers photos from your phone onto real film, complete with old-school instant-film colors so you don’t even need to bother with those digital filters if you don’t want to. The Instax Mini Link has a few unique features, however, including motion controls. Pointing the printer up goes back to the home screen in the app, while tilting it will zoom in and out to crop the photo.
Canon SELPHY QX10 Canon Unlike most of the options on this list, the Canon SELPHY QX10 doesn’t use Zink or film. Instead, it uses dye-sublimation printing, which means that ink is required. But while that may be one extra step, dye-sub tends to produce a better quality print with more accurate colors than Zink or instant film. The technology actually prints one layer of color at a time, so while it can take a full minute for one print, the results are often well worth the wait. Like Zink, the paper is tear and water-resistant and includes a sticky back. The QX10 prints on 2.7-inch square paper and the paper comes bundled with the requisite ink packs, so at least there’s not one more thing to buy.
Canon Selphy CP1300 Image used with permission by copyright holder The Selphy CP1300 boasts a wide range of features that would put many other mobile photo printers to shame. You can print pictures at a standard size of 4×6 inches or print smaller 2×2 inch images. Plus, you have the option to print from different sources, such as a camera memory card, social media, or Airprint. You can also use the Canon Print app to edit your photos before printing them, so you know they’ll look the best.
Like the QX10, the Selphy CP1300 is a dye-sub printer that will give you water-resistant photos that you can quickly turn into stickers. That’s a fun perk, but to use this as a mobile printer, you’ll have to invest $50 in the battery pack, which doesn’t come with the kit. That, plus the relatively bulky design, are the only real drawbacks of this otherwise impressive Canon printer.
Kodak Smile Instant Digital Printer Hillary Grigonis / Digital Trends The Kodak Smile Instant Printer is an easy-to-use, compact mobile printer that lets you print on 2 x 3-inch Zink paper. There are no buttons on the device’s unique slide-open design, so the printer is sleek-looking and straightforward to use. Since there are no buttons, you’ll have to use Bluetooth or download the Kodak Smile app to send photos to print. The Kodak Smile app comes with basic editing features, and you can use it to create an augmented reality video the app will play when you scan a print, just like with the Lifeprint. Not being able to print larger photos is a slight drawback, but you’ll spend less on paper refills.
Editors' Recommendations Best drone deals: Get a cheap drone for $33 (and save on DJI Mini) Best microSD cards in 2023: top picks for your computer, camera, or drone When is the best time to post on Instagram? The best laptops for photo editing The best photo printers Buying Guides Mobile Buying Guides Computing Choosing a monitor for photo editing is partly about size, but it's also about color accuracy, brightness, and contrast, which are all vital elements when it comes to viewing and editing photos. Whether you’re a photography student, a professional, or are just dabbling in the hobby, using the best monitor for the job will enable you to edit your photographs to an optimal standard. We've picked the very best monitors for photo work that we've found during our reviews, starting with the photo-dedicated BenQ SW271.
At a glance BenQ SW271 BenQ PD3200U MSI Prestige PS341WU HP Z27 Eizo ColorEdge CS2731 Acer ConceptD CM2 Series Acer Predator XB253Q Mobile The old saying that the best camera you have is the one you always carry with you is more relevant today than ever. Almost everyone packing a modern smartphone has a fantastic camera on hand that can shoot publishable photos and videos in a snap. The best smartphone cameras are aided by the vast abundance of great photo apps available on the Android platform.
That may come as a surprise for many, as the iPhone has traditionally reigned supreme for its photographic prowess and excellent apps. But in recent years, Android apps have caught up in a big way, offering many of the same advanced tools and features for shooting and editing photos and videos. Today, as you navigate the vast abundance of photo apps on the Google Play Store, we guide you toward the best ones for your Android phone.
Instagram (free) Photography Our pick for the best camera for kids is the Olympus Tough TG-6. It's not a toy camera, nor is it particularly cheap, but it is very good at one thing that makes it a great choice for putting it in the slippery hands of youngsters: Survival. It is waterproof, drop-proof, crush-proof, and probably even dog-proof, so wherever it ends up and however it gets there, it should survive the journey.
Kids love to make art, and they also love using technology. The perfect artistic and high-tech tool for a kid is a camera. We’ve tested and evaluated a wide range of cameras and found a number which work perfectly for children, whether it’s a first-time snapper, or a more advanced model for underwater shots. The cameras we’ve chosen are durable and easy-to-use, making them perfect for kids who aren’t gentle with electronic devices. Here are the best cameras for kids in 2020.
At a glance Best camera for kids: Olympus Tough TG-6 Best camera for toddlers: VTech Kidizoom Best cheap camera for kids: Fujifilm FinePix XP120 Best instant camera for kids: Fujifilm Instax Mini LiPlay And since its shopping season some deals Toy deals Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
