Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Reviews HP DeskJet 3755 review HP DeskJet 3755 is the multifunction printer for the space challenged By Ted Needleman Close $69.99 Small size, fits anywhere Excellent print quality for an inexpensive printer Wi-Fi enabled Slow Low-yield cartridges Controls are not intuitive Loud paper feed There’s that old saying that “bigger is better,” but everyone knows that’s not always a given. Sometimes the opposite is true for some of the best printers.
 That’s the case for Hewlett Packard’s diminutive (for a printer, at least) DeskJet 3755 ($70 MSRP).
The Wi-Fi-enabled 3755 isn’t the fastest, nor is it the quietest inkjet all-in-one (AIO) printer on the market. But it is the smallest multifunction unit that you can currently buy, according to HP, and that will sway a lot of consumers, particularly those who don’t like big computing peripherals taking up space.
Meta Quest Pro reviewers came away impressed by these three things HP Spectre x360 13.5 hands-on review: Refinements that matter The new HP Envy 34 all-in-one has a magnetic webcam that’s perfect for streamers Features and design Besides the price, what draws us to the 3755 is the size. It’s a compact unit measuring 15.86 x 6.97 x 5.55 inches with the input and output trays retracted. Paper is fed through the rear-mounted, 60-sheet input tray, and the output in the front-bottom can hold up to 25 sheets. It only weighs 5.13 pounds, so its small size and light weight makes it a good choice for when space is tight.
The controls are sparse. It consists of a small single-digit monochrome LCD that also displays icons to indicate error conditions, Wi-Fi Direct connection, wireless status and signal strength, and ink levels. Surrounding the LCD are buttons and indicator lights to connect to Wi-Fi or Wi-Fi Direct, and HP’s Web Services. The setup poster that’s included in the box is scant help, but you can download a 114-page user’s guide that provides great detail on how to use the functions.
HP’s 3755 is targeted toward casual users, and it’s reflected in the capacity of the standard (65) or high-capacity (65XL) ink cartridges. The standard black pigment ink cartridge has a yield rated at about 125 pages, while the tri-color dye-based ink cartridge is rated to yield about 100 pages; the inks cost about $13 and $14, respectively. Frankly, that’s not a lot of prints out of a cartridge.
The high-capacity cartridges up the yields to 300 pages for both the black and color cartridges, and are priced at about $26 and $31, respectively. Despite being XL cartridges, those are still low yields. For the infrequent print jobs, it’s fine; otherwise, you’re betting off with a higher-yield printer. HP does offer its Instant Ink program for the 3755, a subscription service that automatically sends you replacement ink before the printer runs out – a handy service if you anticipate printing more than a few occasional pages.
Setup and performance Setup is quick. The 3755 comes with a setup disc, yet it prompts you to perform the setup by downloading the latest drivers from HP’s support site. We opted to use the optical disc, but if you have a computer that lacks an optical drive, at least there’s another setup option.
We connected to the printer via Wi-Fi, but you can also connect using a USB cable. If the printer is on a wireless network with Internet access, you can use HP’s ePrint cloud service for remote printing or printing from a mobile device.
The setup process installs a basic scan utility. Unlike a flatbed scanner that you lift the top up, you have to manually feed a page, one at a time. Testing the scanner, we obtained scans with accurate colors and saturation. Optical scan resolution is only 600 x 600 dpi, so don’t expect to scan a small photo and blow it up to print at a larger size.
It is the smallest multifunction unit that you can currently buy.
Copying was painfully slow – even slower than printing. Additionally, you are limited to just a maximum of nine copies at a time. And, as with scanning, because it doesn’t have a document feeder, pages must be individually fed. Forget about copying from a magazine, book, or other bound source In HP’s defense, the company doesn’t claim the 3755 is a speed demon. They rate the maximum print speed at up to 8 pages per minute (ppm) in monochrome. In our testing, we achieved only 4.8 ppm for a monochrome Microsoft Word document, and an even slower 2 ppm for an Excel document with mixed black and color elements. Remember, for the market the machine is intended for – the occasional user – the slow speed may not be a negative. On the positive side, output quality on both text and images is very good, and the printer offers interpolated resolution of up to 4800 x 1200 dpi.
HP lists photo printing as one of the 3755’s capabilities, and it’s pretty good at it. The problem, again, is speed and ink capacity. After we completed our standard print speed tests, there was barely enough ink remaining to print photos. A modest amount of photo printing will drain the cartridges ridiculously fast. And because the printer is slow, it will take a while to print a photo. If photo printing is a must, you should consider something else.
Our review unit was very noisy when feeding paper, although once it started printing, the unit was as quiet (or loud) as the average inkjet machine.
Our Take The DeskJet 3755’s main positive attribute is its small size. It’s attractive, and it should fit in most space-constraint places, like a student’s dorm room desk. It does have some significant drawbacks, but, depending on your usage behavior, the negatives are either acceptable or deal breakers.
Should you buy it? We lean toward no, only because there are models that don’t cost that much more (some cost even less) but offer better functionality and more features. With that said, the 3755 is a niche printer that fulfills a certain need. If you live in a 300-square-foot New York City studio, for example, the 3755 is pretty attractive when space is at a premium.
To be honest, if you anticipate printing a moderate level of volume, or photo printing, you will probably be better off with a more robust model form HP or another vendor.
You can also check out discounts for HP and other brands through our list of the best printer deals today.
Are there better alternatives? If you are just looking for the least expensive AIO, there are cheaper models. The Epson Expression XP-330 is one example, with a street price around $45. HP’s own DeskJet 2130, at $50, is another. Again, what the 3755 has going for it is the size, and it makes excellent prints. For the buyer, it depends how much you value size.
How long will it last? The 3755 is an inexpensive model and has a modest duty cycle. HP states the monthly duty cycle at 1,000 pages, but if you truly print that many pages every month you’ll burn through ink cartridges and pretty much push the machine to its limits and directly impact the expected lifetime of the device.
If your need is to print moderately long print jobs fairly often, don’t expect the DJ 3755 to survive more than a few years. With more modest use, however, it should last three or four years before you’ll be looking to replace it.
Editors' Recommendations HP’s new color laser printers are energy-efficient and eco-friendly HP unveils new IPS Black monitor with one key new feature HP Omen 16 (2022) hands-on review: Cool and colorful HP launches a work-from-home PC to take on the new iMac HP Spectre x360 15 (2020) hands-on review: Less bezel, more power Printer Reviews Product Reviews Windows Reviews Computing HP Neverstop Laser 1000w Product Video English for EMEA Whether you own an efficient laserjet or a cheaper inkjet printer, you'll always have to buy cartridges and think about swapping out ink or toner when it has run dry. It something consumers and IT departments alike have always had to deal with, but HP has listened to the complaints. The company now offers a cartridge-free printer in an effort to resolve the age-old printer-ink problem.
Photography Previous Next Computing Printers are complicated machines featuring a mix of plastics, metals, electronics, and components, some of which are potentially flagged as hazardous waste. In 2023, it's more important than ever to be kind to the planet, and there are several environmentally safe ways to dispose of a printer.
Even the best printers in the world can reach the end of their life after several years if ink or toner is no longer available. A well-loved printer can suffer from accumulated wear and tear or damage from a catastrophic power surge that's too expensive to repair.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
