Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? HP Envy Inspire 7955e printer review: everything you need By Alan Truly Close $220.00 High-quality photo prints Fast document printing Versatile scanning Easy set up Good value Tri-color cartridge can cause waste Mobile app lacks some features If you’re shopping for a printer , you’ve likely come across HP’s Envy Inspire 7955e all-in-one printer in your research. It offers high-quality photo printing, fast document printing, flexible scanning, and more at a low price.
Design Printing performance Special features Software and compatibility The price is right Is this the printer for you? It’s become a staple of the remote work and small office world, but I wanted to test it out myself to see if it really lived up to the hype, looking through the design details, print performance, special features, and software to find out if it’s a good value at the current price. Spoiler alert: it’s every bit as solid as you may have heard.
Design Photo by Tracey Truly HP’s Envy Inspire has an attractive but functional design with a soft, off-white body and light beige accents. It will fit in nicely in most home office environments.
Since it’s an all-in-one printer, it stands taller than a print-only model but doesn’t seem overly large or obtrusive. The dimensions are 18.1-by-15.1-by- 9.2 inches, and the weight is 18 pounds.
It includes a 2.7-inch color touchscreen that makes accessing various functions simple without a mobile app or computer. The most useful of these is the copy button. One touch is all it takes to start a color copy, first scanning, then printing.
Photo by Tracey Truly HP has been making printers nearly forever, long before the internet existed.
 That means little details have been refined to perfection. Inserting ink cartridges is easy, and directions are clearly marked inside the device.
Notes and marks on the printer indicate how to load paper for printing, how to use flatbed and feeder scanning and adjust guides on each to accommodate different paper sizes.
For example, when adding paper, there are icons of documents and envelopes as a reminder the side to be printed should face down. That’s important when using photo paper and other specialty paper.
Printing performance Photo by Tracey Truly The print quality of the HP Envy Inspire 7955e is fantastic when using high-quality HP paper. It’s hard to tell in the photo above, but the printed photo matched what I saw onscreen. Even on multipurpose paper, details are crisp.
High-brightness photo paper provides more range with brighter whites and more accurate blacks. Photo paper also yields more intense colors, while less expensive sheets still give accurate tones with less vibrancy.
A dedicated tray for small, picture-sized prints accepts 5-by-5, 4-by-6, and 5-by-7-inch photo papers. The main paper tray can hold up to 8.5-by-14-inch legal paper, standard letter-sized paper, envelopes, and various other sizes.
Unless you are planning high-volume printing or selling your prints, this is more than good enough.
The ink dries quickly and doesn’t spread even with standard paper. I didn’t need to play with settings to get good results, and everything I printed came out looking great on my first try.
For documents, fonts are sharp and legible, even when printing gray text. No banding or other issues arose. The HP Envy Inspire 7955e outputs up to 15 black-and-white pages per minute (PPM), more than enough for casual and home office use. Color speed is up to 10 PPM.
Unless you are planning high-volume printing or selling your prints, the speed, and quality should be more than good enough.
Special features Photo by Tracey Truly Beyond printing, the HP Envy Inspire 7955e is a great scanner and copier. Scanning the entire flatbed (a little larger than a letter-sized page) at 300 dpi takes about 20 seconds.
The mobile app has a multi-item scan mode that automatically crops and individually saves several photos scanned at once. There’s also a document feeder that accepts up to 35 pages. It runs slower but allows you to step away while several sheets are scanned, saving time overall.
Optical character recognition, which HP calls text-extract mode, is one of the few problem areas. OCR seems prone to small errors that make editing time-consuming. You’ll want a third-party OCR app if you anticipate an ongoing need to turn scanned documents into editable text.
The HP Smart mobile app also has a fax feature that’s currently free. HP notes that this is a trial, so there may be a charge for faxing in the future. If so, HP will alert you to the change in terms.
Software and compatibility Photo by Tracey Truly Installing software and setting up this printer was incredibly easy. Within minutes I had an iPhone, iPad, Windows PC, Android phone, Chromebook, and MacBook connected and functioning. It doesn’t get any simpler than this.
I unpacked the HP Envy Inspire 7955e and plugged it in. The packaging instructed me to install the app. The app asked me to sign in or create an HP account, then it told me how to install the ink cartridges and connect to the printer, all from my phone.
You can use a USB cable (not included) to connect, but Wi-Fi makes more sense and allows you to place the printer wherever it’s most convenient. This is a very quiet printer, but I put it in the secondary bedroom because I had extra space available.
The software is generally outstanding, and most things just work, being easy or automatic. When I looked for borderless printing on the iPhone app, I couldn’t find it, but it’s relatively simple to enable on Android or a computer.
Printing from Windows , macOS, or Android yielded the edge-to-edge result I expected.
Photo by Tracey Truly You can print through the HP Smart mobile app or your operating system’s standard print system. You might need to install a print service, but HP guided me through the process quickly and without any issues.
One minor complaint about the software is uncertainty about ink levels. The app shows a bar for black and color ink, which lowers as the ink is used, but doesn’t quantify that with a percentage or estimate of how many pages you can print. HP+ offers an Instant Ink subscription that removes any concerns about running out.
The price is right The HP Envy Inspire 7955e retails for $220, a bargain for such a capable printer. HP and third-party sellers have sales periodically to bring the cost even lower. If you aren’t that particular and just want a printer that is cheap but good, we have a comprehensive list of the best cheap printer deals.
Ink supplies are always important with a printer, particularly a color inkjet. As usual, the black ink included lasts a long time, and the indicator barely drops after printing several pages.
Each color print takes a toll on the starter color cartridge that’s included. I got four full-page color prints and seven 4-by-6 photo prints, some set to the best quality, before getting a warning to replace the tri-color ink cartridge.
Photo by Tracey Truly You can still print when that happens, but the colors could be off. Several prints featured blues and greens, so pink flowers came out nicely, but green leaves muted with the partially empty cartridge. Still, it’s nice to have the option to print even after the warning.
Thankfully, the HP Envy Inspire 7955e includes a six-month Instant Ink subscription with HP+. Immediately after creating an HP account and entering my shipping and billing details, a black and a tri-color cartridge shipped.
The idea is that ink ships before you need it so you don’t run out. If you want to take advantage of the offer of six months of free ink, sign up immediately so more ink will arrive before the limited color cartridge runs out.
HP Envy Inspire 7955e is a superb all-in-one printer.
After the six-month Instant Ink bonus, you’ll be billed according to your estimated usage. If you need ink faster or slower, you can adjust your plan.
The service ships more cartridges when you need them. Presumably, HP will alert you if you need to upgrade your plan based on usage. Changes can be made monthly. HP also says ink costs are up to 50% less than buying HP cartridges off-plan.
Is this the printer for you? The HP Envy Inspire 7955e is a superb all-in-one printer at an affordable price. Whether you want to print photos, documents, scan, or fax, setup is quick and painless and it works with every device you own.
The ink comes in a black cartridge and a tri-color cartridge. If your color prints average out to use roughly the same amount of cyan, magenta, and yellow, you’ll enjoy the best value.
HP makes its printers energy-efficient and eco-friendly and that’s worth consideration.
A printer with individual ink cartridges for each primary color will be more efficient if you favor particular colors. I’m more likely to print nature photos that feature greens and blues with pops of reddish tones. As expected, I ran out of cyan and yellow faster than magenta. That’s a little thing, but it can add up over time.
The HP Envy Inspire 7955e is a wonderful printer, and it very well may be exactly what you’re looking for.
Editors' Recommendations The new HP Envy 34 all-in-one has a magnetic webcam that’s perfect for streamers Laptops Printer Reviews Product Reviews Windows Reviews Computing The design of Apple's Magic Mouse continues to be a major complaint among Mac users, a blight on Apple's otherwise fantastic design choices. The ergonomics are inhuman, it still uses a Lightning charging port (even on the new M3 iMac), and it can't be charged while being used.
However, an engineer has introduced his design concept that would not only solve the charging issue on the Magic Mouse but also make the design ergonomic and comfortable for natural handling.
Computing Lenovo is probably one of the best-known laptop makers, especially since they have an incredibly wide variety of them to choose from. That also means they have an excellent selection of gaming laptops, so you can hone in on something that fits your budget. That's especially the case with the ongoing early Black Friday deals that are seeing laptops being cut down in price across the board. That said, Lenovo's selection of gaming laptops is too wide for us to include all their active deals here, so we've selected some of our favorites for both AMD and Intel CPUs. Also, if you're not sure of where to start, you should check out our list of best Lenovo laptops for some good options.
Best Lenovo Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals (AMD) Lenovo has a wider selection of AMD gaming laptops, which is great if you want to go with something AMD-powered. Unfortunately, there aren't any good deals on Lenovo laptops with both an AMD CPU and GPU, but the selection below is wide enough to pick something that fits your needs a bit better. And, if you want something with an RTX 4090 on a budget, then the AMD version is probably the cheapest for Lenovo.
Computing Printers are complicated machines featuring a mix of plastics, metals, electronics, and components, some of which are potentially flagged as hazardous waste. In 2023, it's more important than ever to be kind to the planet, and there are several environmentally safe ways to dispose of a printer.
Even the best printers in the world can reach the end of their life after several years if ink or toner is no longer available. A well-loved printer can suffer from accumulated wear and tear or damage from a catastrophic power surge that's too expensive to repair.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
