Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Reviews HP Officejet Pro 8620 review HP 8620 serves offices and big households with fast, quality prints.
By Ted Needleman Close $200.00 Good-looking color prints Fast print and scan speeds Standard inks have good yields Copying speeds could be faster No “easy” software for consumers No memory card slots Ignore the word “office” in the name for a second. Yes, HP’s Officejet Pro 8620 e-All-in-One ($300 MSRP, but we’ve seen street prices as low as $200) is meant to be a capable four-function (print, copy, scan, fax) multifunction inkjet for small offices, but it’s also a perfect choice for a family that goes through a lot of paper every month. And a duty cycle of up to 30,000 pages means the chance of wearing it out is slim; if you print more than 1,500 pages a month, reexamine your printing habits or invest in a workhorse laser printer.
Features and design The Officejet Pro 8620 is a black boxy unit that’s rather sleek-looking for an office-centric product. It has clean lines and curvy corners that make it sexy. The automatic document feeder (ADF) has a large 50-sheet capacity, with duplex (two-sided) scanning. Unlike some newer MFPs we’ve tested, the ADF’s duplexing requires two passes, which takes a little longer than single-pass scans. Still, it’s a nice feature to have.
MacBook Pro M3: Should you choose the M3, M3 Pro, or M3 Max? Best laptop deals: Save on HP, Lenovo, Dell and Apple Best color laser printers for 2023: tested and reviewed The front-panel has a 4.3-inch color touchscreen that has a smartphone-like user experience. Besides basic functions like scan, copy, and fax, there are apps you can download that let you access Web-based features without a computer, such as printing calendars and puzzles. Next to the display is the NFC tag for one-touch wireless printing from select smartphones and tablets. Besides Wi-Fi and Wi-Fi Direct, the 8620 supports Ethernet and USB. A front USB port is for accessing documents off a flash drive, but there are no memory card slots.
The 8620 supports AirPrint, Google Print, and most other wireless print technologies. If it’s connected to the Internet, you can also access cloud-stored docoments via the likes of Dropbox.
Despite the “office” name, HP’s Officejet Pro 8620 can serve a subset of home users who print a lot.
In the base is a 250-sheet paper tray (letter and legal) and an output tray that supports a very-decent capacity of 150 pages. The printer also has duplexing capability, but it requires a duplex unit that you attach to the rear. A step-up model, the Officejet Pro 8630e, offers two paper trays.
Standard and high-yield ink cartridges are available. The standard HP 950 (black, $27) and 951 (color, $16 each) cartridges provide excellent yields — an estimated 1,000 pages for black and 750 pages for color. Higher yield XL cartridges (black, $40; color, $32 each) are rated at 2,300 pages in black and 1,500 in color. If you print a lot, the high-yield cartridges may save you money in the long run. Like most Web-connected HP printers, you can sign up for HP’s Instant Ink program; the printer automatically sends a message to HP to send new cartridges (for a fee, or course) when supplies are low.
What’s in the box Because it’s a big printer, the 8620 comes in a large box, obviously. It comes with its duplexer detached (it simply plugs into the rear of the MFP). Also included are starter ink cartridges, power cord, telephone cord for the fax, and some startup documentation. A CD includes drivers for Windows and Mac OS X. Because it’s a business-oriented printer, there isn’t any creative software included, but you can easily download those apps from HP’s website.
Warranty HP provides a one-year limited hardware warranty that includes phone support during business hours. If you are a heavy user, consider buying HP’s Care Packs at the time of purchase, which extends the protection by two or three years.
Setup and performance Setting up the 8620 is a breeze. Install the starter ink tanks, run the installation routine from the included CD, and you’re done. Connect a USB cable to a computer, or share it on a wired or wireless network. Most home users will most likely use Wi-Fi, and instructions on the LCD panel will guide you through the process of connecting the printer to a Wi-Fi network The 8620 is quite speedy for an MFP in this price range.
As for performance, HP rates the printer at 21 pages-per-minute (ppm) in black and 16.5 ppm in color. We use the Microsoft Word portion of the ISO test protocol for our speed testing, which involves printing a four-page mostly monochrome document with a small color logo on each page. In our testing, the 8620 churned out almost exactly 22 ppm, which is very speedy for a printer or MFP in this price range.
Copying is considerably slower, especially two-sided copying, but the upside is that it is still faster than many MFPs we’ve tested recently. The 8620 is supplied with a TWAIN driver, and we tested it using the import function in Picasa 3.0. Single-pass scanning is rapid, especially when using the ADF, and scan quality is very good with accurate colors and good detail.
Bill Roberson/Digital Trends For our image quality tests, we printed on HP Premium Presentation Paper, HP Premium Plus Photo Paper, and Hammermill Premium Inkjet & Laser Paper. On the two HP papers, output quality was excellent, lacking just a small amount of contrast in shaded areas. With the Hammermill paper — a business paper that sells for about $12 a ream — output quality was also very good, with accurate colors and just a small amount of undersaturation (lightness) in some colors. HP doesn’t claim photo quality for the 8620 because it isn’t marketed as a photo printer, but using it to print reports or flyers with color graphics won’t prove disappointing.
Conclusion The DT Accessory Pack Up your game and the get the most out of your gear with the following extras, hand-picked by our editors: Hammermill Copy Plus Multipurpose Inkjet Paper ($15) The 8620 has great print quality, even on regular paper like this one from Hammermill.
HP Premium Plus Photo Paper (4×6) ($20) HP doesn’t market the 8620 as a photo printer, but you can still print nice-looking 4×6 photos using specialty paper.
HP 950XL/951XL Combo Pack ($125) As with all inkjet printer makers, HP makes money on inks. If you plan to print a lot, opt for the high-yield XL cartridges in a combo pack, which are often discounted versus buying each ink separately.
Highs Good-looking color prints Fast print and scan speeds Standard inks have good yields Lows Copying speeds could be faster No “easy” software for consumers No memory card slots Editors' Recommendations The MacBook Pro M3 doesn’t have a memory problem — it has a pricing problem The M3 Max makes the MacBook Pro look like a nearly unbeatable laptop Dell vs. HP: Which laptop brand is best for your needs? Vision Pro 2: everything we expect from the future of Apple’s headsets Apple said to be redesigning the Vision Pro headset in 2 important ways Photography Printer Reviews Product Reviews Windows Reviews Computing Ever since they changed from Intel processors to Apple silicon chips, Apple’s MacBooks have boasted phenomenal battery life. Now, it looks like the new 16-inch and 14-inch MacBook Pro laptops due out this year could take their battery power even further.
That’s if a new report from DigiTimes (via MacRumors) is to be believed. The outlet has claimed that the new MacBooks -- which it says will launch later this year -- will feature improved displays that are even more power-efficient than the company’s existing ones.
Computing HP offers several excellent laptop lines that are tailored for professionals, traveling, and student use, and it generally makes great all-purpose laptop models for those who want dependability and performance. HP laptops show up on our best laptops and best 2-in-1s lists, among others. However, picking and customizing an HP laptop can be a confusing process for newcomers, and it's not always immediately clear what differences mark the various HP lines, nor which is the best pick.
Allow us to make the choice easier with our list of the best HP laptops available in 2023, and an explanation of what each model excels at.
Computing While there's no shortage of laptop deals in the market right now, students and professionals who want touchscreen functionality should check out the available Surface Laptop and Surface Pro deals. Microsoft's lineup of mobile devices has steadily increased in popularity because of their versatility and performance, so there's always high demand for discounts. If you want to take advantage of any of the offers that we've gathered here, you should do so quickly as the bargains may end sooner than you expect.
Microsoft Surface Go 3 -- $500, was $550 Functioning as a 2-in-1 laptop that can switch between tablet mode and laptop mode, the Microsoft Surface Go 3 won't have trouble dealing with basic tasks as it's equipped with the Intel Pentium Gold 6500Y processor and 8GB of RAM. The 10.5-inch touchscreen with 1920 x 1080 resolution is bright and colorful, and its 128GB SSD is more than enough for your documents. The Microsoft Surface Go 3 ships with Windows 11 Home in Mode, so you can start using it as soon as you unbox it. The device also promises up to 11 hours of battery life before requiring a recharge.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
