Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? HP OfficeJet Pro 9015e printer review: quick and efficient By Alan Truly Close $290.00 Very fast inkjet printing First page comes out quick Great document quality Crisp photo prints Low ink costs Single paper tray makes one-offs a hassle Mobile app lacks some features HP’s OfficeJet Pro 9015e is a compact all-in-one printer for your home office or small business that promises fast print speeds, top quality, and several advanced options that will get the job done reliably day after day.
Design Printing performance Special features Software and compatibility Low-cost and economical printing Is this the printer for you? I went hands-on with this workhorse to see whether it offers good value compared to lower-cost models. It’s not perfect, but with its fast and high-quality printing, I can see why it’s become such a popular option.
Design The HP OfficeJet Pro 9015e is an attractive printer with a footprint of just 17.3 inches by 13.5 inches by 10.5 inches. That’s small, considering it’s a robust, all-in-one inkjet that carries the HP’s pro moniker. With accents in medium and dark gray on a white body, it looks good alongside modern décor or in a work environment.
The 2.7-inch color touchscreen makes it easy to access copying, scanning, and printing without needing another device. There’s even a USB port on the side to plug in a thumb drive to load and save documents and images. You can use all of the HP OfficeJet Pro 9015e’s basic features with nothing more than a pocketable USB drive.
A person retrieves a stack of documents from the HP OfficeJet Pro 9015e’s paper tray.
Photo by Tracey Truly The generous paper tray can hold up to 250 sheets at a time, so you’ll make fewer trips to the printer to refill, but as it’s the only one, it makes one-off prints more complicated. If you switch media types and paper sizes infrequently, that might not matter.
HP estimates that the XL ink cartridges can print up to 2,000 pages in black-and-white and 1,600 pages in color before being changed. The standard cartridges last for up to 1,000 black-and-white and 700 color pages.
HP annotates paper guides with friendly icons that indicate the correct way to insert blank paper for printing. The flatbed scanner and document feed has similar markings to help you align photos or documents for scanning.
Printing performance The HP OfficeJet Pro 9015e delivers great photo print quality.
Photo by Tracey Truly The print speed is immediately apparent from the very first use. Warm-up takes only a few seconds, and the first page rolls out in about 10 seconds. It can print up to 22 pages per minute (ppm) in black-and-white, slowing only slightly to 18 ppm in full color.
The HP OfficeJet Pro 9015e’s color prints shoot out faster than some inkjets can print monochrome. That makes this inkjet competitive with low-cost laser printers when comparing print speed, particularly for small and medium-sized jobs.
Quality is outstanding for both monochrome and color printing. Borderless printing is possible even on letter-sized paper. Most impressive is knowing that performance and quality should continue even with a long and heavy workload. HP rates the OfficeJet Pro 9015e as having a duty cycle of up to 25,000 pages each month.
Such a massive amount of printing would empty a full paper tray 100 times over. Realistically, few people print that much, but it’s nice to know that HP says you can push its printer that hard without affecting performance.
Special features Copies can be made directly from the HP OfficeJet Pro 9015e using the touchscreen.
Photo by Alan Truly The HP OfficeJet Pro 9015e includes a flatbed scanner and automatic document feeder that can process 35 sheets at a time. You can scan both sides of a page when using the feeder. The sharpness looks great, and the colors are accurate. Output can be saved as PDF, JPEG, and other formats.
Scans can be sent to a computer, a smartphone , or a thumb drive. There are even advanced options for scanning to email, a network folder, and the cloud via SharePoint.
The copy controls are easy to use directly from the HP OfficeJet Pro 9015e’s touchscreen. Simply place photos or documents on the glass or in the feeder, then hit the copy button. You can reduce documents to as small as 25% of the original size or scale up to 400%.
Software and compatibility A person places photos on the HP OfficeJet Pro 9015e’s flatbed scanner glass.
Photo by Tracey Truly HP printers work with any device. The OfficeJet Pro 9015e is instantly recognized by Windows, macOS, and even ChromeOS.
 If a driver is needed, the operating system handles that painlessly since HP is such a well-known brand. HP says it’s compatible with Linux, but I don’t have a computer with that operating system for testing.
Setting up the printer takes just a few minutes, and the quick start guide included in the box makes it simple. Power it up, plug in the four ink cartridges, matching each color to the corresponding slot inside the printer. The HP OfficeJet Pro 9015e prints an alignment sheet, then asks you to place it in the scanner. It scans and automatically adjusts the print heads, if needed, to ensure optimal quality.
A person places the HP OfficeJet Pro 9015e alignment page in the scanner.
Photo by Tracey Truly You can install the HP Smart app to use the full features of the OfficeJet Pro 9015e with an iPhone or Android phone. Using a smartphone is recommended since it makes Wi-Fi setup effortless. Wireless is so convenient that I can’t imagine having to route cables or keep the printer near my computer anymore. However, you can connect the OfficeJet Pro directly to a computer with USB or Ethernet cables if you’d like.
The mobile app has an optical character recognition (OCR) feature to convert to text, and an automatic cropping feature allows multiple photos to be scanned at once. Unfortunately, those extra scanning features don’t always produce the best results at this time. Borderless printing is easy to select from a computer, but I could only get it to work from a smartphone by selecting photo paper on the printer’s touchscreen after loading paper in the tray.
HP is aware of the mobile app issues and is working on an update to correct these problems.
Low-cost and economical printing It’s easy to set up the HP OfficeJet Pro 9015e.
Photo by Tracey Truly For a fast and rugged printer, the HP OfficeJet Pro 9015e has a friendly price. It retails for $290, but is often discounted to slightly more than $200. That’s hard to beat for such a durable and quick all-in-one printer.
It comes with six months of free ink if you sign up for HP+ with Instant Ink. HP will email you before the paid subscription begins, allowing you to cancel and manage supplies for yourself. The Instant Ink plan takes all of the work out of the process and offers discounted prices as well.
With any printer, supply costs can significantly impact the long-term value. In the case of the OfficeJet Pro, ink costs are quite low, even without an HP+ subscription. That means the total cost of ownership for an HP OfficeJet Pro 9015e might be less than cheaper printers that have a lower initial price , but more expensive ink.
The HP OfficeJet Pro 9015e has long-lasting ink cartridges.
Photo by Alan Truly Based on HP’s estimated number of pages per cartridge, the ink cost for black-and-white printing could be as low as two cents per page. If you buy standard-yield cartridges, an average color page might use 10 cents worth of ink to print. When using XL color ink cartridges, that would drop to seven cents. Paper cost is not included in this calculation.
That’s very affordable and makes the HP OfficeJet Pro 9015e a great value choice if other aspects of this all-in-one printer work well with your intended use.
Is this the printer for you? The HP OfficeJet Pro 9015e offers outstanding speed at a low price. Print and scan quality are excellent. From a technical point of view, HP nailed it. It might not be the right choice for everyone, however.
If you often switch between printing documents, envelopes, and photos, the paper tray must be emptied and refilled between every media change. Then you have to select the correct paper from the touchscreen menu.
Many printers, including the slightly more expensive HP OfficeJet Pro 9025e , have a secondary input tray that takes the hassle out of printing envelopes and photos.
That might be enough to put you off of the otherwise excellent HP OfficeJet Pro 9015e. But if you want a home business printer that can do everything, including scanning, copying, and rapidly knocking out big print jobs without breaking a sweat, it’s hard to beat this solid all-in-one printer from HP.
Editors' Recommendations The new HP OfficeJet Pro’s smart app cuts your time spent scanning in half Printer Reviews Product Reviews Computing Printers are complicated machines featuring a mix of plastics, metals, electronics, and components, some of which are potentially flagged as hazardous waste. In 2023, it's more important than ever to be kind to the planet, and there are several environmentally safe ways to dispose of a printer.
Even the best printers in the world can reach the end of their life after several years if ink or toner is no longer available. A well-loved printer can suffer from accumulated wear and tear or damage from a catastrophic power surge that's too expensive to repair.
Computing It's Black Friday, which means it is time to give expensive tech products and fun, but expensive, toys a second look. The right Black Friday deals are there to take these categories of products down in price. Where these categories of expensive tech and cool toys collide is the Meta Quest 2, a VR headset, and sure enough, it has a good sale going on over at Amazon right now. Normally $300, its price has dropped by $51 down to just $249, one of the best VR headset Black Friday deals we've seen. The really good news? This deal is here now, so you don't have to wait to buy it like you will with the rest of your post Thanksgiving shopping. In fact, if you tap the button below and buy now, and with a little shipping luck, you might have it by Thanksgiving to play with your family.
Why you should buy the Meta Quest 2 The Meta Quest 2, which dominated Steam last year, is a VR headset that gives a full 360 field of view, allows you to experience 3D positional audio, and has over 500 compatible titles between gaming, fitness, and other experiences. If you're a Twitch viewer, you may recognize it from streamers playing Meta Quest 2 games like Beat Saber or the somewhat ironically humorous Among Us VR. It refreshes at 120Hz and gives each eye a view of 1832 x 1920p.
Computing The G-series of gaming laptops from Dell represent a balance between performance and affordability. While it is positioned below the Alienware gaming laptop lineup, it manages to incorporate some of the standout features from its more expensive counterpart. It takes inspiration from its pricier cousin in terms of design and build quality, and also offers commendable thermal and graphics performance.
The company officially unveiled the 2023 G-series back in January at CES, and if you have decided to purchase a new Dell gaming laptop, then we recommend going for the latest G16 7630.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
