Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Reviews Samsung Xpress C1860FW review By Ted Needleman Close $350.00 Fast prints Great-looking output Excellent connectivity Expensive for home use Toner replacement costs are high No duplexing In most households, affordable inkjet-based printers are normally what you’ll find. But there are times when you want the crispness and feel of laser printing, such as people who run a small business from home. The Samsung Xpress C1860FW ($643 retail, but the street price is significantly less) is a laser-based option that would meet those users’ needs: It produces really good-looking output, has a gorgeous touch-sensitive control panel, and, while it towers over anything else on your desk or table, has a manageable footprint. It has great connectivity options, and spits out pages at an impressive rate.
But home users will most likely find the price premium hard to swallow, and for use in a small business environment – whether in a home or office – the C1860FW lacks an essential productivity feature, duplexing.
Samsung Galaxy Chromebook hands-on review: Step aside, Pixelbook Features and design There’s no mistaking the C1860FW for a laser printer – a laser multifunction printer, to be exact. It won’t get inducted into the Museum of Modern Art, but it’s an attractive gray and black unit nonetheless, with the scanner/automatic document feeder (ADF) mounted above where the printed-paper exits. Despite a seemingly overbearing presence, the C1860FW actually has a small footprint – only 16.5 x 16.8 inches and stands 17.6 inches high. Make a home for it, because at 47 pounds you won’t want to move it around a lot.
The omission of auto-duplexing is a real feature gap for its intended users, especially considering the price.
The control panel takes up almost the full width of the unit. One of the reasons for this is an impressive 4.7-inch color LCD touch-panel that’s easy to navigate and makes using the device intuitively simple. To the right of the display is a numeric keypad and the typical buttons associated with a machine that prints, copies, scans, and faxes.
The Xpress C1860FW has a single large paper tray with a capacity of 250 sheets (half a ream). The output tray, located beneath the scanner head, has a capacity of 100 pages, so it’s possible to overfill the output on long copy jobs.
Neither the printer nor the ADF provides duplexing, which we find perplexing for a productivity MFP, considering even some 100-buck inkjet printers have duplexing. This omission is a real feature gap for its intended users, especially when you consider the price.
On the plus side, the toner cartridges have really impressive yields – 2,500 pages for the black toner, 1,800 pages for each of the three colors. But the replacements aren’t cheap. The black cartridge will set you back $88 at Staples, with each color cartridge costing $77. A full replacement of toner will set you back $320 – nobody ever said color laser printing is cheap.
The C1860FW has an “Eco” mode that saves toner, although Samsung doesn’t state how much you can expect to save using this mode. Still, given the replacement cost of a toner cartridge, you will probably be best served setting Eco mode as your default in the print driver and switching to a better quality mode when needed.
Samsung has added an impressive list of connectivity options. You can use direct USB, wired Ethernet, Wi-Fi, Wi-Fi direct, and Near-Field Communication ( NFC ). We tested the NFC tap-and-print capability with a Samsung Galaxy S5 , and found it worked well. Samsung includes a separate setup poster for setting up NFC , and you’ll need to get the Samsung Mobile Printing app on your phone to use this feature.
NFC adoption isn’t widespread, so unless your mobile device offers it (mainly modern Android models like the Galaxy S5), it’s not a feature that’s going to push you in the direction of purchasing this particular MFP.
As with many printers and MFPs these days, the C1860FW has WPS (Wi-Fi Protected Setup), which lets you set up the Wi-Fi connection with a press of a button, if your router or access point supports this feature What’s in the box Due to extra insulation, the C1860FW comes in a giant box. Included is a CD with drivers for printing and scanning (Mac and Windows), a setup poster, power cord, and another setup poster for establishing NFC. The four toners are already installed in the MFP.
Warranty The C1860FW has a one-year limited warranty. Full details can be found here.
Performance and use There’s nothing difficult about setup. Remove all the packaging, pull the shipping strips from the toner cartridges, load some paper, and run the included installation disc. There’s a quick-setup poster, but you probably won’t need it.
While Samsung doesn’t make any claims for photo quality, we managed to achieve that on photo paper.
The paper tray has a capacity for 250 sheets of letter or legal-size paper, and can handle paper stock as heavy as 59 pounds. There’s no single-sheet feed for letterhead, specialty media, or photo paper. We did test the MFP’s image quality capabilities using a fairly heavy photo paper without experiencing any jamming or other problems. The output tray, which is located between the printing and scanning portions of the MFP, has a capacity of 100 sheets, considerably less than the paper tray’s 250-sheet capacity (so don’t leave it unattended if you’re making lots of prints). As mentioned earlier in the review, there is no automatic duplexing on either the printer or the scanner.
Samsung’s claimed speed for the C1860FW is “up to” 19 pages per minute (ppm), with no differentiation between color or monochrome output. Nor is there any indication if this was achieved using the ISO performance testing protocol our testing is based on. We managed a bit over 22 ppm using the Microsoft Word portion of the ISO’s test protocol, which prints a four-page (mostly monochrome) document multiple times.
Image quality was quite good. We printed the three test images on Hammermill Premium Inkjet and Laser paper, and on Epson Premium Glossy Photo Paper. While Samsung doesn’t make any claims for photo quality, that’s what we achieved when printing on photo paper, though the output was a bit darker than that on the reference prints we use. Image quality on the Premium Inkjet and Laser paper was excellent, though not quite photo quality. Regardless, school and business reports with graphics and charts are going to look great printed on this MFP.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Scanning worked well, and we were able to easily perform scans using the TWAIN driver and Picasa’s Import function. Scan quality was excellent and accurate at both 200- and 300-dpi resolution. One really nice feature of laser-based MFPs is that they make copies really fast. That’s true of the C1860FW, though it lacks the ability to make a double-sided copy without a lot of manual maneuvering.
Conclusion We like the C1860FW. It’s fast and the output is really good-looking – even with photo prints, which Samsung doesn’t claim as a feature. But it’s fairly expensive for a home MFP. We could forgive the price if the MFP offered less-expensive supplies and provided duplexing on the printer and scanner, as is increasingly common even on inexpensive inkjet printers. These two cons really drag down the C1860FW’s overall score. We will note that we’ve seen this printer for less than $300 at certain office super-stores (as of this writing, even Samsung offers it for a lower-than-retail price at its online store), so definitely shop around.
Highs Fast prints Great-looking output Excellent connectivity Lows Expensive for home use Toner replacement costs are high No duplexing Editors' Recommendations Samsung Galaxy Book 2 Pro 360 hands-on review: A sturdy sequel Photography Printer Reviews Product Reviews Samsung Computing Lenovo is probably one of the best-known laptop makers, especially since they have an incredibly wide variety of them to choose from. That also means they have an excellent selection of gaming laptops, so you can hone in on something that fits your budget. That's especially the case with the ongoing early Black Friday deals that are seeing laptops being cut down in price across the board. That said, Lenovo's selection of gaming laptops is too wide for us to include all their active deals here, so we've selected some of our favorites for both AMD and Intel CPUs. Also, if you're not sure of where to start, you should check out our list of best Lenovo laptops for some good options.
Best Lenovo Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals (AMD) Lenovo has a wider selection of AMD gaming laptops, which is great if you want to go with something AMD-powered. Unfortunately, there aren't any good deals on Lenovo laptops with both an AMD CPU and GPU, but the selection below is wide enough to pick something that fits your needs a bit better. And, if you want something with an RTX 4090 on a budget, then the AMD version is probably the cheapest for Lenovo.
Computing Printers are complicated machines featuring a mix of plastics, metals, electronics, and components, some of which are potentially flagged as hazardous waste. In 2023, it's more important than ever to be kind to the planet, and there are several environmentally safe ways to dispose of a printer.
Even the best printers in the world can reach the end of their life after several years if ink or toner is no longer available. A well-loved printer can suffer from accumulated wear and tear or damage from a catastrophic power surge that's too expensive to repair.
Computing It's Black Friday, which means it is time to give expensive tech products and fun, but expensive, toys a second look. The right Black Friday deals are there to take these categories of products down in price. Where these categories of expensive tech and cool toys collide is the Meta Quest 2, a VR headset, and sure enough, it has a good sale going on over at Amazon right now. Normally $300, its price has dropped by $51 down to just $249, one of the best VR headset Black Friday deals we've seen. The really good news? This deal is here now, so you don't have to wait to buy it like you will with the rest of your post Thanksgiving shopping. In fact, if you tap the button below and buy now, and with a little shipping luck, you might have it by Thanksgiving to play with your family.
Why you should buy the Meta Quest 2 The Meta Quest 2, which dominated Steam last year, is a VR headset that gives a full 360 field of view, allows you to experience 3D positional audio, and has over 500 compatible titles between gaming, fitness, and other experiences. If you're a Twitch viewer, you may recognize it from streamers playing Meta Quest 2 games like Beat Saber or the somewhat ironically humorous Among Us VR. It refreshes at 120Hz and gives each eye a view of 1832 x 1920p.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
