Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Photography Reviews Epson PictureMate PM-400 review Forget the drug store, Epson’s PM-400 puts a photo lab inside your home By Ted Needleman Close $250.00 Makes 3.5 x 5, 4 x 6 and 5 x 7-inch prints Compact, lightweight Excellent photo quality Wireless connectivity Can be costly to buy, maintain No portable battery option Not long ago, sharing photos meant taking negatives to the drugstore and having them make prints. These days it’s all about Facebook, Instagram, Flickr, or whatever photo-sharing social networking site you can name. While we no longer rush to the photo lab to drop off film rolls, photo printing is still very much alive: A recent 2015 survey by InfoTrends found that 27 percent of participants who have printed from their mobile phones, say they would do it again. Another 23 percent say they plan to, but haven’t yet, while 16 percent say they didn’t realize it was possible to print from a phone, but would like to try it. The last figure is encouraging, according to InfoTrends, because the respondents are between the ages of 13-24 – printing is suddenly cool again.
With our smartphones, tablets, and computers, it’s easy to transmit photos to online services or even traditional retailers like Walgreens, Costco, and Target, which will deliver prints to you by mail or have the available for pick-up. You can also print photos at home, using a regular color inkjet printer or a dedicated, specialty photo printer like Epson’s new PictureMate PM-400 Personal Photo Lab. The little unit prints 4 x 6 or 5 x 7 photos, and can function on its own, without a computer; unlike portable photo printers that came before (the PM-400 isn’t a new concept, although it has been a few years since we’ve seen new specialty photo printers like this), the PM-400 is designed to work with today’s mobile devices. But, for a printer whose only job is to print small photos, the convenience of a home photo lab comes with a rather high price.
Features, design, and setup The PM-400 is small and lightweight (9.8 x 6.9 x 3.3 inches when folded up, and 4 pounds), making it highly portable. Drop down the front panel, which serves as the output tray, and lift up the top panel, which exposes the input tray, and it’s ready to go. On the top of the unit is a 2.7-inch color LCD (non-touch), four-direction control pad, and keys for Home, Back, Start, and Stop.
Initial setup involves inserting a single ink cartridge that contains all four colors (cyan, magenta, yellow, and black), and installing the print driver (downloaded from Epson’s support site) if you are connecting the printer to a computer.
Connectivity options include hardwire USB 2.0, or wireless Wi-Fi and Wi-Fi Direct (which connects directly to a Wi-Fi-enabled device, without going through a network). No Ethernet port is provided, but that’s no loss since this isn’t a business machine. The PM-400 supports all of the mobile protocols like Apple AirPrint, Google Cloud Print, and Epson’s own Epson Connect, Epson Email Print, and Epson iPrint apps.
The PM-400 can print photos as small as 3.5 x 5, or as large as 5 x 7.
There are two USB ports. The port on the left side is Micro USB, which is for a PC connection (Windows or Mac). Although most printers use a USB A/B cable, this isn’t so unconventional as so many mobile products use Micro USB cables – you probably have some lying around.
On the right side is a standard USB 2.0 port connecting thumb-drives, cameras, or even a USB portable hard drive; it cannot be used for PC connections. Next to this port is a SD card slot.
One thing missing from the PM-400 is a battery. Some past photo printers offered this as standard or as an option, allowing you to bring the unit along for remote printing – true portability. You can still do this, but you’ll need a power outlet.
What’s included The PM-400 comes with a power supply, four-color ink starter cartridge, and a few sheets of 4 x 6-inch Glossy Photo Paper. No USB cable is provided, but since the PM-400 offers a wide variety of wireless connectivity options, you may not need it.
Warranty Epson covers the PM-400 with a standard limited one-year warranty.
Performance and use Using the PM-400 couldn’t be easier. In addition to printing from a PC, as mentioned, you can print off an SD card, flash drive, smartphone , or tablet. When a SD card or flash drive is plugged in, the PM-400 scans them and finds the printable photos. You use the arrow keys to select the photos you want to print, either individually or from a proof sheet, although this can get tiresome if you have a lot of photos to go through (we wish Epson had used a scroll wheel or added touch capability to the LCD). You can make adjustments, such as red-eye reduction, using the LCD.
With mobile devices, you can use the iPrint app to select the photos from the camera roll, or print from online cloud services, as well as make basic settings adjustments. With an iPhone, you can also print directly from the camera roll via AirPrint by tapping the “share” icon and choosing “print”; the PM-400 automatically pops up as an available printer, provided everything is on the same network.
Besides 4 x 6 and 5 x 7, the PM-400 supports 3.5 x 5 and number-10 envelopes. The input tray can hold 20 sheets of glossy photo paper at one time.
Printing is fast, and quality rivals what you would get from a drug store.
Printing is fast. Epson claims an average of 36 seconds per print (it varies depending on the content of the photo). The PM-400 uses dye-based ink, so the prints are vivid, scratch resistant, and smudge proof. Overall, print quality is excellent, rivaling what you would get from a CVS or Walgreens. Even shots from good-quality smartphones came out looking nice. We attribute this to the four-color ink tank versus ones that use three colors. Epson claims a 200-year life for the print; unfortunately, it’s not something we can put to the test.
The PM-400 is made to work with Epson paper, although there is an option called “plain paper” in some settings. There’s nothing to stop you from using paper from other brands, but the printer maker generally matches the ink and paper, so quality can’t be guaranteed if you’re using something different. Your prints may look less vivid, or there may not be noticeable differences at all. You’ll have to experiment.
Costs The DT Accessory Pack Up your game with these hand-picked accessories from our DT editors: DT accessory pack: Epson PictureMate 400 Series Print Pack ($40) The Print Pack comes with one ink cartridge and 100 4 x 6 glossy photo paper Epson Premium Photo Paper Glossy (5 x 7) ($8) The PM-400 can print photos as large as 5 x 7.
AmazonBasics Micro USB cable (6 feet) ($5) To connect the PM-400 to a computer, any decent quality Micro USB cable should suffice.
A single ink cartridge costs $33 (MSRP). Because the tank contains all four CMYK color, you may not achieve the approximate 100-print yield of 4 x 6 photos if you print more of one color than another (for example, if your prints tend to have a single dominant color, like lots of blue sky). And if you primarily print the larger 5 x 7, you probably won’t get too close to that yield either. That means you may have to replace the entire cartridge before the other inks run out – a common tradeoff for single-cartridge printers.
Highs Makes 3.5 x 5, 4 x 6 and 5 x 7-inch prints Compact, lightweight Excellent photo quality Wireless connectivity Lows Can be costly to buy, maintain No portable battery option Editors' Recommendations Epson crams wide-format printing into a compact, voice-activated photo printer Printer Reviews Product Reviews Mobile Blackmagic Design has just released a free and feature-packed app for shooting video on the iPhone.
With the company’s background in building high-end digital movie cameras and popular video editing software such as DaVinci Resolve, the new Camera app will be worth a look for those who want more creative control when shooting footage on Apple’s iPhone.
Photography INSTAX Pal Promotional Video "Making small moments feel big"/FUJIFILM Fujifilm has just unveiled the Instax Pal camera, a diminutive digital device targeted at teens who might want to print their pictures, too.
Photography With even the best cameras, there's an all too familiar process of getting the perfect shot. Find what you want to take a picture of, line up the shot, and then get really still and take the shot. Unless you're on an early 2000s shaky cam nostalgia trip, the process works pretty similar for capturing video footage as well. Getting really still, however, can feel like the antithesis of fun. The purpose of a good adventure is to see some peaceful sights, sure, but there's also the grand, exciting, and hopefully action-packed journey to those sights.
The answer to this issue, for you, could be a GoPro.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
