Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Features All the best macOS Sonoma tips and tricks you need to know By Alex Blake Close Apple’s macOS Sonoma is full of great features, including many that Apple raved about when it unveiled the operating system at its Worldwide Developers Conference (WWDC) in June 2023. If you want to get the most out of macOS Sonoma, it helps to know a few handy tips and tricks to improve your experience.
Look picture perfect Expanded Visual Look Up Video wallpapers and screen savers Desktop widgets Quickly show your desktop Save websites as apps to your Dock Share passwords and passkeys with contacts Game Mode From rapidly hiding windows and showing the desktop to saving websites to your Dock for quick access, macOS Sonoma is bursting with clever extras that make a big difference in day-to-day usage. Here, we’ve collected eight of the best tips and tricks that will make using macOS Sonoma better than ever.
Look picture perfect Digital Trends Continuity Camera lets you use your iPhone as a webcam on your Mac. In macOS Sonoma, Apple has tweaked this system to give you even more control over how it works and how you look on-screen.
For instance, you can manually position yourself in the frame during video calls. To do so, ensure Continuity Camera is running, then select the FaceTime icon in your menu bar. Disable Center Stage , then mouse over the video preview – you’ll see a zoom scale. Drag this to zoom in and out, or click and drag elsewhere in the preview to move the center of the frame. Select Recenter to reframe yourself in the middle of the image.
You can also change the depth of field by choosing the FaceTime icon in the menu bar, then selecting the Dropdown arrow next to Portrait. Here, you can drag the slider to change the strength of Portrait mode’s depth of field effect.
Expanded Visual Look Up Alex Blake / Digital Trends Visual Look Up allows you to find more information about the contents of your images and videos. In macOS Sonoma, Apple has expanded it in a number of useful ways. You can now find recipes for food in your photos, for instance — just open the Photos app, right-click an image containing food, then pick Look Up Food in the context menu.
Similarly, you can find directions to a store, learn the meaning of signs, and decipher the symbols on laundry tags, all by using Visual Look Up in the Photos app. It even works for the contents of still frames in your videos.
Video wallpapers and screen savers Alex Blake / Digital Trends This year, Apple introduced video wallpapers and screen savers that seamlessly merge into each other: when your screen saver begins, the camera starts from your background image and flies through the air or underwater. When you end the screen saver, the video slows down and settles into a new still image. It’s a great little addition to the operating system.
Enabling or disabling this feature might seem a little confusing, though, as the wallpapers it works with have both stationery and moving versions. To enable video wallpapers, open the System Settings app and select Wallpaper in the sidebar. Pick a Dynamic background (indicated by a play icon), then enable the Show as screen saver toggle.
 You can also do this by going to System Settings > Wallpaper , where you need to enable the Show as wallpaper toggl e.
Desktop widgets A widget being moved into place in macOS Sonoma. The placement grid is shown beneath the widget.
Digital Trends While widgets have been in the Notification Center for years, macOS Sonoma saw them make the jump to your desktop. The best desktop widgets are interactive, letting you tick off reminders or play podcasts without having to open the widget’s associated app.
After you’ve got some widgets on the go, you can amend how they look and work by opening System Settings and choosing Desktop & Dock > Widgets.
 From here, you can change the widget style so that they either retain their full color or go monochrome when you have another app open.
Under Show Widgets , untick the On Desktop checkbox to hide widgets when you have other apps open (they reappear when you show your desktop), or tick it to permanently show them. And if you enable the Use iPhone widgets checkbox , you can add widgets from apps that are installed on your iPhone, but not your Mac, putting more options at your fingertips.
Quickly show your desktop Alex Blake / Digital Trends Showing your desktop used to be a little fiddly in macOS — you either had to minimize all your apps one by one, or press Command+Mission Contro l (or Command+F3 ), which isn’t the easiest shortcut to reach.
Now, things are much simpler. Open System Setting s and go to Desktop & Dock > Desktop & Stage Manager.
 Next to Click wallpaper to reveal desktop , choose Always from the dropdown menu. This means you can simply click your wallpaper and all of your open windows will move out of the way. To disable it, just pick Only in Stage Manager from the dropdown menu.
Save websites as apps to your Dock Apple Sometimes, you might wish a website worked more like an app that you could quickly access on your Mac. Luckily, macOS Sonoma has introduced a way to make that happen. First, visit the site you want to save in Safari (it doesn’t work in other browsers) and click File > Add to Dock.
 Give the web app a name and select Add.
 This adds it to the Dock.
While you can remove the website from your Dock, it’ll still be accessible in Launchpad in case you want to readd it to the Dock. If you want to change the app’s settings, open the web app, then Select its name in the menu bar, then Settings.
 Here, you can change its name and web address, adjust its privacy settings, and more.
The best candidates for websites to save to your Dock are those you would use like apps, such as Pinterest or games. For websites that you’re likely to read for a while before moving on — such as news websites — the appeal might not be as strong, but you still have the option to save them as apps if you like.
Share passwords and passkeys with contacts Alex Blake / Digital Trends Sometimes, you’ll share a website or app account with other people. Instead of insecurely sending passwords to each other over email or messaging apps , there’s a new feature in macOS Sonoma that makes things much easier and safer.
Open System Settings and select Passwords in the sidebar, then enter your Mac account password. Click the + button, then choose New Shared Group.
 Enter a group name and add members. Group members must be running macOS Sonoma, iOS 17 or iPadOS 17.
Now, choose the passwords you want to share by ticking the checkbox to their left. When you’ve selected every password that you want to share, select Move.
 If you want to add more passwords later, click System Settings > Passwords , select your group, then choose + > Move Passwords to Group.
This makes the passwords accessible to anyone in the group, saving everyone time. To stop sharing a password, enter your group, select the i button, then select the Dropdown menu next to Group.
 Instead of your group’s name, pick My Passwords > Move to My Passwords.
Game Mode Apple Mac gaming’s star is rising high at the moment, with our reviewer dubbing the latest 14-inch MacBook Pro “a proper gaming laptop” and more and more AAA games making the jump to macOS. To help with this new status quo, Apple has introduced a fresh feature to macOS Sonoma that gives things a lift.
It’s called Game Mode, and the idea is it improves performance by stabilizing frame rates and prioritizing your games over other tasks. It’s enabled every time you launch a full-screen game — whether it’s in exclusive full-screen mode, a maximized window, or something else — so there’s not much you need to do in that regard.
However, sometimes you might want to manually disable or enable it. To do so, ensure Game Mode is running by looking for the Game controller icon in your menu bar while a full-screen game is running and selecting it. Then choose Turn Game Mode Off.
 Your preference is remembered, so Game Mode will still be disabled the next time you run the game.
Editors' Recommendations Shopping at Apple this holiday season? You should know this How to watch Apple’s ‘Scary Fast’ Mac launch event if you missed it Apple’s refreshed iMac may be coming sooner than you think Apple fixed one of my biggest macOS gripes with Sonoma — but I still want more This dangerous new Mac malware steals your credit card info Apple Features Mac Software Computing The more you use Apple’s macOS operating system, the more you come across amazing little tools and features that you’ve somehow never heard of, yet which can totally blow your mind. I’ve been using Macs for over a decade, yet I just stumbled upon a killer feature I never knew existed -- and I absolutely love it.
That feature is called Quick Actions, and you’ll need macOS Mojave or later to give it a try. The name is pretty self-explanatory -- they’re a collection of lightweight tools and tweaks that can save you oodles of time. The reason I never knew about them, though, is they’re hidden away in the right-click menu. I use keyboard shortcuts all the time, so rarely open this menu. But Quick Actions are worth breaking your habits for.
Computing At its Worldwide Developers Conference (WWDC) earlier this year, Apple revealed that interactive widgets would be coming to macOS Sonoma. That probably sounds like a tiny new feature, and sure, it’s not as earth-shattering as the Vision Pro announcement. But it could turn out to be one of the most divisive new features in the Mac operating system.
In macOS Sonoma, you’ll be able to plant widgets on your desktop instead of hiding them in the Notification Center. Many widgets will be interactive, letting you tick off to-do list items without opening the widget’s app, for example. And you’ll be able to run iOS widgets right on your desktop, even if that app isn’t installed on your Mac. It’s a pretty comprehensive overhaul. Depending on how well these interactive widgets work, though, we could be left with a bunch of annoying distractions or a set of super-helpful timesavers. The way Apple handles them is going to be vital.
We've been here before Computing When Apple announced it would revolutionize the world of Mac gaming at its Worldwide Developers Conference (WWDC) in June, many people were skeptical. But the latest update to the company’s Game Porting Toolkit has made some important changes to how games run on the Mac -- and the results are impressive.
The toolkit allows developers to move their Windows games across to macOS Sonoma. Games makers can test out how well their products run on Apple’s hardware and find out what they need to do to make the jump, something that Apple says ends up “significantly reducing the total development time.” Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
