Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Split Screen in Windows 11 Windows 11 Requirements Get Windows 11 for Free Screenshot on Windows 11 Uninstall Windows 11 Android Apps on Windows 11 Home Computing Features I review laptops for a living, and these are the settings I change on every device By Mark Coppock Close I’ve reviewed nearly all of the best laptops , and when I get my hands on a new one, I instinctively adjust some settings to ensure that I’m meeting a standard configuration. I need to make sure every laptop is set up the same way, as closely as possible, to ensure my benchmarks and testing are consistent. While those settings aren’t relevant for most users, the process has given me some insight into how various settings impact day-to-day use.
Start with power management Adjust the display for optimal performance Make your touchpad work for you Miscellanea More from there So, when I start using a laptop for real work, I have a core group of settings that I change to fit my workflow. I’ll outline those here, for both Windows 11 and MacOS. It’s not a one-size-fits-all scenario, but hopefully, some of these changes will make your computing more efficient and enjoyable.
Start with power management In Windows 11 , the first place I go in the Settings app is System and then Power & battery.
 Windows defaults to a very short screen-on time for both battery use and when plugged in, and I adjust those in Screen and sleep to an hour and three hours, respectively, for turning off the screen and putting the laptop to sleep. If you’d rather your screen turn off, but the laptop remain awake, then adjust accordingly. And, my times may not work for you. I don’t often keep my laptops sitting there with the display open, and they go to sleep when I close the lid.
Mark Coppock / Digital Trends I set the Power mode to “Balanced,” because most laptops I use come with a utility that enables various power modes that are optimized for that laptop. HP has its Command Center utility, for example, while some other manufacturers bury the setting in their generic utilities. Some Lenovo laptops integrate with the Windows power mode setting instead. I typically run in a laptop’s “balanced” mode, whatever it’s called, and only switch to “performance” mode when I need that extra boost of speed. But you’ll want to become familiar with your laptop’s utility to get the best mix of battery life, heat and noise, and performance. It can make a huge difference, especially with gaming laptops.
On my MacBook Pro 14 , I haven’t made many power adjustments. I open the Systems settings app and select Battery from the left-hand column, and then make sure Low power mode is set to Never.
 I don’t run a lot of demanding apps while on battery, and so I want the MacBook to always run at full speed. Another change I make is to go into Options… and toggle off Optimize video streaming while on battery.
 I want full-quality HDR video both when on battery and plugged in. Otherwise, I maintain the MacOS defaults, which work well for me.
Mark Coppock / Digital Trends Adjust the display for optimal performance Modern laptops have excellent displays, by and large, whether they use IPS technology that’s great for productivity or OLED and Mini-LED panels that creators and media consumers will love. I’m partial to high resolutions and displays that do a great job of displaying high dynamic range ( HDR ) content, so I gravitate toward the latter. In any event, there are a few settings you’ll want to check out to make sure you’re optimizing your display’s performance.
In Windows 11 , I head to Settings > System > Display.
Once there, I check to see if there’s an option to automatically adjust brightness when lighting changes. If there is, I uncheck the box. I like to manually control brightness. The next setting I check is the display’s Scale.
 The right scaling percentage depends on the size of the display and its resolution. I’ll check a few options to see which produces icons and text that aren’t too tiny, but that allows me to see the most elements on-screen at once. It’s a balancing act that sometimes takes me a few tries to get right. On newer laptops with high refresh rates, I’ll select Advanced display and then Choose a refresh rate.
 While selecting a higher refresh rate, say 120Hz, uses more battery life, it makes the user interface much smoother. And if you’re a gamer, it’s key to ensuring tear-free gaming.
Mark Coppock / Digital Trends On my MacBook, I head into the System Settings app and select Displays.
 I don’t change the scaling, as the default works perfectly for me. I toggle off Automatically adjust brightness , make sure the Refresh rate is set on “ProMotion” (which adjusts the display dynamically up to 120Hz), and make sure that the Preset is on Apple XDR Display (P3-1600 nits).
 I want the brightest display when I’m playing HDR video, which is something that no laptop does as well as the latest MacBook Pro Mini-LED displays. Next, I click Advanced… and toggled off Slightly dim the display on battery.
 I also toggle on the options to use a Mac or an iPad as a second display, to accommodate my iPad Pro 11.
Mark Coppock / Digital Trends Windows 11 makes color adjustments a bit tougher. You can search for Color Management and open the Control Panel option if you want to apply a custom color profile to your display. These ICC profiles aren’t common, so you’ll generally need a consumer colorimeter like Datacolor’s SpyderX to generate a custom color profile.
Make your touchpad work for you I don’t make any keyboard adjustments in either Windows 11 or MacOS, but I do check and adjust the touchpad configuration. The touchpad is the primary way I interact with my laptops , as is the case with most people, and while I use the touch display and an external mouse on occasion, getting the touchpad settings just right is vital.
In Windows 11 , that means going to Settings > Bluetooth and devices > Touchpad.
 Once there, I first adjust the Cursor speed to whatever’s most comfortable on a given laptop. I make sure that Taps is enabled for all combinations and that Touchpad sensitivity is set to Medium sensitivity.
 Then, I set Scrolling direction to Down motion scrolls up , which feels more natural to me.
Mark Coppock / Digital Trends On my MacBook, I open the System Settings app and click on Trackpad.
 Under Point & Click , I adjust the Tracking speed and Click settings to make for a precise response from the Force Touch touchpad. I also turn on Tap to click.
 Under Scroll & Zoom , I toggle Natural scrolling to on, matching the behavior on my Windows laptops.
 There are a number of other settings to adjust, but I am happy with the way the touchpad performs with the other default settings enabled.
Mark Coppock / Digital Trends Miscellanea There are a few other changes I make to both my Windows 11 laptops and my MacBook. I change the notifications settings to enable them for just the apps I want. In Windows, you’ll find the settings in Settings > System > Notifications.
On the MacBook, they’re in the Settings app, then Notifications.
One of the first configuration options I make sure is set correctly is the time zone. In Windows, go to Settings > Time & language > Date & time , and then toggle on Set time zone automatically.
 There’s a Sync now button you may need to select here if your time is incorrect. In MacOS, open the System Settings app, then select General > Date & Time.
 Make sure Set time zone automatically using your current location is toggled on.
Finally, I like updates to be applied automatically, which might put me in a minority. Yes, sometimes a laptop will update at an inconvenient time, but I don’t like the idea of missing important security updates. So, in Windows 11 , I head to Settings > Windows Update , then I toggle on Get the latest updates as soon as they’re available.
 That applies to non-security updates, but I still turn it on just in case. In MacOS, the setting is in the System Settings app, then General , then Software Update.
 Click on the information icon next to Automatic updates and you’ll see several options. I toggle all of them on.
Sometimes, especially in Windows, updates don’t work out. Youcan go to Settings > Windows update> Uninstall updates to see your most recently installed updates and remove them.
More from there There are dozens of additional settings in Windows 11 and macOS, but adjusting your power, screen, and touchpad settings should set your laptop up right. From there, it’s a matter of personalization, adjusting things like your wallpaper and color settings.
All of this assumes your laptop is working how you want it to, though. If you’re running into problems, make sure to check out our roundups of common Windows 11 problems and common macOS Ventura problems.
Editors' Recommendations I love Macs. But here are 5 reasons I keep coming back to Windows The MacBook Pro 14 still obliterates this Windows laptop This hidden menu has forever changed how I use my Mac Yes, you can use both Mac and Windows — here are some tips to get started As a laptop reviewer, this is the CES 2023 laptop I’m most excited for Apple Features Laptops Mac Microsoft Microsoft Windows Software Windows 11 Computing I reviewed 59 laptops in 2022, ranging from low-end Chromebooks to extremely high-end creative powerhouses. Some of them were the best laptops I've ever used, and I observed that laptops this year represented a legitimate increase in both quality and value. Simply put, laptops got a lot better in 2022, making it a great time to purchase.
Weirdly enough, though, as I look back and pick the laptop that impressed me the most, it wasn't introduced in 2022. Nope. It was introduced in October 2021, and that laptop is the Apple MacBook Pro 14.
Computing I've been a Windows user since Windows 1.0 hit the streets. In that time, I've also reviewed more than 200 laptops, the vast majority running Windows.
And outside of a brief diversion to escape the pain of Windows Vista, I've never found much reason to want to secede to a Mac.
Computing The Dynamic Island was one of the standout features at Apple’s iPhone 14 launch event in September, and it contained just enough classic Apple magic to wow audiences tuning in. But it left us wondering -- how would it look on a Mac? Now, we have an answer thanks to Reddit user DavidGamingHDR, who posted a mocked-up render of the Dynamic Island adorning a MacBook Pro to the r/Mac sub-reddit. And now that we’ve seen it, we’re intrigued -- and a little concerned.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
