Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Split Screen in Windows 11 Windows 11 Requirements Get Windows 11 for Free Screenshot on Windows 11 Uninstall Windows 11 Android Apps on Windows 11 Home Computing Features I love Macs. But here are 5 reasons I keep coming back to Windows By Mark Coppock Close Thanks to the massive success of Apple Silicon, Macs have become increasingly tempting. Plenty of folks are heading back to the Mac for the first time in years, and in doing so, making the dramatic switch from Windows 11 to macOS.
Device support Windows management File management Application compatibility Gaming When it comes to these operating systems, though, they’re not equal across the board. And in the end, here are the five things that keep me coming back to Windows 11.
Device support Microsoft Apple has expanded the Mac lineup quite a bit over the past few years, but compared to the wide variety of different devices that run Windows, it’s still a shallow pool. And as a techie, I’m always on the hunt for the latest and greatest tech, especially devices that explore new form factors and use cases. And that’s always been one of the biggest strengths of the Windows platform.
Take the 2-in-1 laptop, as an example. While Apple continues to keep the Mac and the iPad separate, Windows devices have embraced the in-between for many years. You have tablets with detachable keyboards like the Microsoft Surface Pro 9 , as well as laptops with 360-degree hinges like the HP Spectre x360 13.5.
 Meanwhile, you still can’t even find a MacBook with a touchscreen.
The neat part for me, though, is seeing how companies take these concepts and explore them even further. There are numerous dual-screen Windows laptops like the Asus Zenbook Pro Duo and Lenovo ThinkBook Plus Gen 4 , which even has an e-ink screen built into the lid. Then there’s the recent HP Spectre Foldable PC , for example, which has a 17-inch screen that folds right in half.
HP Spectre Foldable PC Mark Coppock / Digital Trends More than that, Windows has you covered on devices that are tailor-made for specific use cases too, whether it’s gaming, business, or content creation. That’s true both in the world of desktops and laptops.
Apple, on the other hand, takes a much more straightforward approach. As the designer of the software and hardware, the Mac lineup is divided into just a few simple categories, ranging from a $599 entry-level Mac mini up to a fully-configured Mac Pro that comes in at $11,799. There is variation between these models, but they all run on the same Apple Silicon and are built with the same design philosophy.
Windows machines provide a world of choices, powered by a variety of CPU and GPU manufacturers, and support lots of different display technologies, and sizes. It might be hard to decide exactly which to buy, but there’s no question that the huge range of options is the strongest advantage of the Windows platform — and the thing that keeps me coming back for me. No doubt it’s why Windows has more than three times the market share of macOS.
Windows management Mark Coppock / Digital Trends Next up is a software feature that I just can’t live without. When it comes down to it, Windows 11 has the most extensive and accessible set of windows management tools for making multitasking easy and efficient.
Split screen and Windows Snap are the two primary features that users can use to manage multiple windows on a single display or across any number of displays.
Snap Layouts make it easy to configure your display for a variety of window orientations, and Windows Snap uses simple keyboard shortcuts and hot spots to send windows to various orientations. With just one keystroke or drag function, you can easily split your screen between two windows, and via Snap Layouts you can lay out as many as four windows depending on your display resolution.
If you have a high-resolution monitor, Windows 11 will allow you to make the most of the available real estate. The same is true if you run multiple monitors and even multiple desktop layouts. Microsoft has done a solid job of creating an easy-to-use and polished windows management system.
Digital Trends MacOS offers some windows management functionality, but it’s quite a bit more rudimentary.
Split View makes it easy enough to place two windows side by side, and there are keyboard shortcuts as well. Note that Split View puts windows into full-screen mode, which some users may not prefer. If you want the ability to match Windows 11’s functionality, though, you’ll have to install a third-party app.
Overall, it’s easier and more efficient to manage windows in Windows 11, and we’ve just scratched the surface as to why.
File management Microsoft Managing files is one of the most basic and most important operating system tasks. How a platform enables finding, organizing, and accessing files can make the difference between user elation and frustration.
Windows 11 and macOS both have powerful file management tools. In Windows 11, it’s File Manager, and in macOS, it’s the Finder. Whether File Manager is better than the Finder may come down to user preference, but we find File Manager to be more functional overall.
To begin with, the default File Explorer view shows more information than the Finder. You see your OneDrive store highlighted at the top, if you use Microsoft’s cloud storage solution. Then you see the automatically generated folders, including Pictures , Music , and Videos , which macOS doesn’t create. Recent and pinned folders are next, followed by This PC , which lists every physical and mapped location, both physical and virtual. Clicking through the latter shows you every folder in each.
Default Windows 11 File Manager view Mark Coppock / Digital Trends The Finder’s default view is simpler. You can quickly access a select group of folders on the primary drive, along with a few automatically generated and pinned folders. iCloud storage is next, then any connected locations. Finally, files that are tagged can be easily accessed. The Finder also provides different ways to view folder contents, including a nested view that some people might like and others might hate.
Both file managers have various views, such as icons and a detailed list, and both offer preview windows. Each also has a host of ways to interact with and gain information about files. There are obvious differences in philosophies, but both are powerful tools.
MacOS default Finder view Mark Coppock / Digital Trends In reality, you won’t find yourself unable to perform a file management task in either operating system. But again, Windows 11’s File Manager just seems like a more accessible tool overall.
Application compatibility Digital Trends Graphic / Digital Trends It should come as no surprise that an operating system with almost 70% market share will garner more support from application developers. Windows has always dominated when it comes to the sheer number of apps available, and while macOS has made some strides, that remains true today.
The situation has become even more complex with Apple’s switch from Intel CPUs to its own Apple Silicon chips. Not only do Mac users need to consider whether an app is available at all, but they also need to consider whether it’s been optimized for the M1 and M2 processors. Many have been, but not all, and the performance difference between emulated and native apps is significant.
The disparity between Windows and macOS is likely greatest in categories like business and engineering applications, as well as system utilities. macOS does a lot better in creativity applications, a field where Apple has long been a strong player. Overall, there aren’t many categories where no macOS equivalent exists, but you’ll want to check to make sure that your most important apps are available. That’s not something you’ll need to do nearly as often with Windows 11.
In addition, installing applications is easier in Windows. Some people don’t like how Windows applications often place a lot of hooks into the system that aren’t always obvious. But the majority of Windows apps install the same way and can be uninstalled using the Windows Control Panel. In macOS, some apps are installed merely by dragging them to the Applications folder, some have their own installation routines, and some are installed from the App Store. It’s not always clear how to uninstall an app in macOS, particularly complex apps like Adobe’s Creative Suite. Windows 11 also has the Windows Store where apps are often available, so Windows does have its own complications.
For the most part, though, Windows 11 offers more apps and an easier install and uninstall process than macOS.
Gaming We could easily have placed gaming higher up on this list because it’s an area where Windows absolutely dominates macOS. Virtually every major and minor gaming title is available for Windows 11, which is certainly not the case with macOS. Look at a typical Steam library on macOS, for example, and you’ll find only a few available titles. In the Steam library view depicted below, for example, only one app is available for macOS. This is likely true for the vast majority of well-stocked Steam libraries.
MacOS Steam library Mark Coppock / Digital Trends The reasons why Windows dominates here are many. Again, Windows benefits from its massive market share. But Microsoft has been focused on maximizing gaming performance forever, whereas Apple has only recently given gaming serious attention. Windows also benefits from supporting the most powerful GPUs, and that’s only exacerbated by Apple’s switch to its own chips with their integrated graphics. While the M2 processor has faster graphics performance than the M1, it’s still nowhere near what you can get with midrange and high-end graphics cards from Nvidia and AMD.
We could spend many paragraphs describing why Windows 11 is a better gaming platform than macOS Sonoma , but we won’t bother. If you’re looking to buy a gaming PC, then you’ll want to pick from the many Windows 11 options – which include both desktops and laptops.
Editors' Recommendations All the best macOS Sonoma tips and tricks you need to know A major Windows update just launched. Here’s what’s new Apple’s refreshed iMac may be coming sooner than you think I review laptops for a living, and these are the settings I change on every device I saw the AI future of Windows 11, and it blew me away Apple Features Laptops Mac Microsoft Microsoft Windows Software Windows 11 Computing People like to think that Apple’s Macs are more or less invulnerable to the assorted viruses and trojans that afflict Windows PCs, but that’s far from the truth. That’s just been aptly demonstrated by the emergence of a new malware strain that attempts to steal all of your passwords, credit card data, and more.
The discovery was made by security firm SentinelOne, which named the malware MetaStealer. According to SentinelOne, MetaStealer has the potential to trick you into giving away vital information that could cause a huge amount of damage, and it has a nefarious way of getting what it wants.
Computing From smart speakers to ChatGPT and Bing Chat, AI has slowly crept into our lives, but not all instances of AI are as prominent as those three examples. Sometimes, the effect is subtle, but still pretty nice. It appears that Microsoft is working on one such instance of AI-enhanced tech that could make using Windows 11 just a little more pleasant. We're talking about AI-powered live wallpapers, and they might be coming soon.
First spotted by Windows Latest, Microsoft is readying an AI-powered desktop that could make the whole user experience feel a lot more interactive. The idea is to adjust depth perception and make some backgrounds appear more "alive" when moving your cursor or the entire device. The wallpaper might move or shift, depending on what you're doing on the desktop.
Computing Since I started reviewing laptops here at Digital Trends, I've worked on over 240 devices. That means I always have a device or two to use, but the machines themselves aren't so important. It's what I can do with them that counts. That's why I install a core group of applications on every laptop I set up.
Going through the process of setting up a new laptop several times a month means I have a list of applications I reach for. If you're setting up a new PC for the first time, here's what you should download.
The basics Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
