Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Guides How to check your Mac’s temperatures By Tyler Lacoma Close Learning how to check your Mac's temperature can be a great step in extending the life of your computer, particularly if you're using an older Intel-based model. So far, Apple Silicon Mac and MacBook computers tend to run cool enough that overheating isn't a major concern. At the same time, it can be quite satisfying to check out exactly how well your new Mac keeps its cool.
Check Apple Silicon Mac CPU temperatures with the Hot app Get a temperature snapshot for Intel Macs with Terminal Monitor ongoing Intel Mac temperatures with the Fanny app Difficulty Duration What You Need Mac or MacBook A third-party app or the Terminal If temperature readings are pushing into higher levels, it might be time to do some Mac spring cleaning to clear out vents or consider upgrading components to better handle the current workload. For this guide, we’ll describe exactly how to tell the temperature on MacOS for both Intel and Apple Silicon. A spot check is possible as well as ongoing temperature monitoring.
Check Apple Silicon Mac CPU temperatures with the Hot app iMazing developed the free and open-source app, Hot, to make it quick and easy to monitor CPU temperature on a Mac or MacBook. This works on both Apple Silicon and Intel-based systems. There are other solutions for Intel Macs, covered below, that provide GPU data as well, but for any M1- or M2-based Mac, the Hot app is a free app that's always visible in the menu bar at the top of the screen for at-a-glance ease.
Step 1: The Hot app can be downloaded from the iMazing website and is found about a third of the way down on the free app page.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 2: Open a Finder window and choose the Applications folder. Then drag the Hot app from the Downloads folder in the Dock to the Applications folder. The app can be launched from Launchpad or the Applications folder.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 3: Check the menu bar at the top of the screen for the Hot app's icon, which looks like a flame. The average CPU temperature will appear beside it. Open the Hot app's menu to see more options, such as choosing between Fahrenheit and Celsius for the temperature display.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Get a temperature snapshot for Intel Macs with Terminal If you are primarily interested in quickly checking in on your CPU temperature, there’s an easy way to do that on Intel-based Mac computers without the need to download any extra tools. It’s a specific command that you can use in the Terminal — macOS’s version of Command Prompt — that will start tracking your CPU temperature. Here’s what to do: Step 1: Open the Terminal app. You can find it by going to the Dock and selecting Applications.
 Here, look for the folder called Utilities and open it. The Terminal should be located in these apps.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 2: With the Terminal open, type in (or paste) this exact command sequence: sudo powermetrics --samplers smc |grep -i "CPU die temperature" Now select Enter to input the command. At this point, you may need to input the login password for your macOS account. The Terminal app can be a little tricky with this because it won’t normally show the characters you are typing, so you’ll have to input the password blindly and then select Enter again. You do not need to enter the command again after entering your password.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 3: Give Terminal a moment, and it will start producing logs for your CPU temperature. Terminal will keep producing a log every few seconds to show how the temperature is changing over time and will stop when you close the application.
Note that the temperature readings will be Celsius. This is the common format for computer temperature readings, so you will need to do some quick ballpark conversion in your head to get Fahrenheit numbers or just plop the temperature into Google for a Fahrenheit translation if you aren’t used to working with Celsius.
You can use this command whenever you want for a CPU reading, but it becomes a little laborious for frequent checks. Let’s take a look at an alternative option that will work better for long-term temperature management.
Monitor ongoing Intel Mac temperatures with the Fanny app What if you want an ongoing look at your Intel Mac temperature without needing to use a command every time? What if you want to monitor GPU temperature separately from CPU temperature to help diagnose specific problems or focus on only a certain piece of hardware? In this case, we highly recommend installing the Fanny app. It’s free, lightweight, super easy to use, and provides constant monitoring of your Mac’s performance, including CPU and GPU temperatures: Step 1: Visit the Fanny Widget site here and select the Download button.
Mark Coppock / Digital Trends Step 2: Fanny will download as a zip file on your Mac. Find and select the zip file to open it, then select Fanny to download it. Confirm you want to Open it.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 3: Fanny will not open a new window for you to use. Rather, it will add a small icon to the upper-right of your Mac, Three dashes that indicate Fanny is working. Select that icon, and a new screen will drop down.
Image used with permission by copyright holder For Intel-based Mac desktops and MacBooks, CPU temperatures should be under 45 to 50 degrees Celsius when idling and when no apps are active. The machine's temperature will quickly climb when more apps are opened, and more demanding workloads result in more heat.
Intel Core chips can sustain temperatures up to 100 degrees Celsius without causing any damage.
Apple Silicon-powered Mac and MacBook computers typically idle at a much cooler 20 to 35 degrees Celsius but can also climb to as high as 100 degrees when running demanding apps, Examples include those that process 4K ProRes videos or render large 3D graphics scenes. This is expected, and every MacOS PC is designed to increase fan speed and/or throttle the processor's speed to protect against damage.
That said, a faulty fan or clogged ventilation can become a problem, so it is good to keep an eye on this. Ultimately, upgrading components and PCs to newer, more efficient models helps breeze through harder tasks while keeping the computers cooler. We also have a guide on how to speed up your Mac , where most of the solutions discussed can also help cool down your processor and GPU.
Editors' Recommendations Best Black Friday MacBook deals: Get an Apple laptop from $505 All the best macOS Sonoma tips and tricks you need to know A new iMac Pro could still launch. Here’s what I want from it How to add and use desktop widgets in macOS Sonoma How to buy and configure a new iMac without wasting money Apple How-To Guides Mac Software Computing Apple just upset everyone, claiming that the 8GB of Unified Memory available in the base MacBook Pro M3 is "probably analogous to 16GB on other systems." The MacBook Pro M3 has already come under fire for only including 8GB of Unified Memory in its base configuration, which runs $1,600. MacWorld recently ran a story criticizing the 8GB of memory in the MacBook Pro M3, saying, "If 8GB will be a bottleneck for many today, imagine the performance of that non-upgradeable laptop in a few years’ time." Computing Apple has confirmed it has no plans to release a 27-inch iMac in the immediate future. The news comes on the same day that reviews for Apple's 24-inch iMac M3 and MacBook Pro M3 went live, with the company urging pro users who had been waiting for a 27-inch iMac update to go with a Mac Studio or Mac Pro instead.
An Apple representative confirmed that a 27-inch iMac with Apple silicon won't be arriving soon to The Verge. Apple last updated the 27-inch iMac in 2020, just a few months before Apple silicon was released to the world. It never saw Apple Silicon, instead being stuck on older Intel chips. Apple discontinued the product in 2021, eventually delisting it the next year.
Computing All of Apple’s best MacBooks are well-known for their superb build quality and remarkable longevity. But that doesn’t mean they’re indestructible, and there are plenty of things you can do to a MacBook that will significantly shorten its lifespan.
If you want to avoid ruining your Apple laptop and having to shell out for an expensive repair or replacement, you should be sure to avoid doing any of the things listed in this article. Steer clear of them and you’ll enjoy years of great usage out of your device, with far fewer hitches along the way.
Don’t let temps get too hot Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
