Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Guides How to downgrade from macOS Sonoma to an older version By Alex Blake Close Not everyone loves macOS Sonoma (the latest version of macOS) and there are plenty of reasons you might want to go back to an older edition. The latest macOS might be missing key features you previously enjoyed, for example, or it might have compatibility issues with your apps.
Method 1: Restore from an older Time Machine backup Method 2: Run a bootable installer Method 3: Revert your Mac to the operating system it shipped with (Intel only) Difficulty Duration What You Need A Time Machine backup containing an older version of macOS (optional) An empty USB drive (formatted for macOS) with enough space for the macOS installer (optional) There are a few ways to uninstall the latest version of macOS and downgrade to an older edition, and we’ll take you through them in this guide. Before we start, though, there is something very important you need to do: back up your Mac.
For one thing, that’ll get you out of a tight spot if something goes wrong. As well as that, some of the methods we discuss in this article involve either erasing your Mac’s drive or rolling back to an earlier point in time. In both cases, you could lose recent files. To prevent that happening, save your files to a separate location, whether that’s to the cloud or to one of the best external hard drives.
Now that you’ve done that, you also need to know which versions of macOS your Mac can run. As a rule, it’s unlikely to be able to run anything older than the edition of macOS that was installed when you bought your Mac. It should be fine to roll back to anything that came out within a few years of your Mac’s release, though.
With all that done, let’s get started.
Apple Method 1: Restore from an older Time Machine backup Step 1: Before you begin, note that restoring from a Time Machine backup will mean you lose any data created after the backup was made, so ensure you have newer documents saved somewhere on a different Mac, an external drive, or in cloud storage.
Step 2: Restart your Mac in Recovery mode. To do this, shut down your Mac, then on an Apple silicon Mac, turn it on by pressing and holding the power button until you see the message “Loading startup options.” On an Intel Mac, turn on your Mac then immediately press Cmd+R together until you see the Apple logo.
Step 3: Select Options > Continue and wait for the progress bar to fill up. Log in with an admin account, then select Restore from Time Machine > Continue > Continue.
Step 4: Pick a backup from before you upgraded to macOS Sonoma (i.e. a backup running macOS Ventura or earlier). Now choose Continue and let your Mac restore from the backup. You Mac will install the older macOS version as part of the backup restoration process.
Dan Baker / Digital Trends Method 2: Run a bootable installer Step 1: Apple still makes older versions of macOS available on the App Store. You can download one, load it onto a USB drive and install it from there. However, this method requires using Terminal and erasing your Mac’s SSD, so make sure you’ve backed up your files somewhere (and are comfortable using Terminal) before starting.
Step 2: Download the version of macOS you want from the App Store using one of the following links: * macOS Ventura * macOS Monterey * macOS Big Sur * macOS Catalina * macOS Mojave Step 3: In this example, we’re going to use macOS Ventura. When it finishes downloading, do not run the installer. Instead, open your Applications folder in Finder and check the installer is there.
Step 4: Plug a USB drive into your Mac. You will need to make sure it has enough space for the installer and is completely empty before beginning. Name the drive “macOS installer” or something equally memorable.
Digital Trends Step 5: Open the Terminal app on your Mac and type in the following command: sudo /Applications/Install\ macOS\ Ventura.app/Contents/Resources/createinstallmedia --volume /Volumes/MyDrive Replace “Ventura.app” with the name of the installer file, and “MyDrive” with the name of your USB drive. When you’re done, press Return.
 You can close Terminal when the process has finished.
Step 6: Now open the Settings app and pick General > Startup Disk , then select the USB drive with the macOS installer on it.
Step 7: Shut down your Mac and boot into Recovery mode by pressing and holding the power button until you see “Loading startup options” (on an Apple silicon Mac), or by pressing and holding Cmd+R as soon as you start your Mac (on an Intel Mac).
Step 8: Now pick Options > Continue.
 Log in with an admin account, then click Disk Utility > Continue.
 From here, choose your Mac’s startup disk and pick Erase.
 This will delete everything on the drive, so it’s your last chance to ensure your files are safely backed up. Wait for the process to finish, then click Disk Utility > Quit Disk Utility from the menu bar.
Step 9: Now pick Reinstall macOS from the menu and follow the on-screen instructions.
Apple MacBook Air M2 Luke Larsen / Digital Trends Method 3: Revert your Mac to the operating system it shipped with (Intel only) Step 1: If your Mac was running an older version of macOS when you bought it, you can roll it back to that version. Note that this only works on Intel Macs, so if you have an M-series Apple silicon chip inside your Mac, this method won’t work.
Step 2: Shut down your Mac, then start it up again and immediately hold Shift+Opt+Cmd+R together.
Step 3: Once the Recovery screen loads, choose Reinstall macOS > Continue and follow the on-screen instructions. Then pick your startup disk and click Install.
Step 4: Wait for your Mac to finish installing the version of macOS that came with your Mac.
Now that you’ve managed to downgrade from macOS Sonoma to an older version of Apple’s Mac operating system, you should be good to go. If you ever want to upgrade to a more recent version, you can either download the installer from the App Store or open the Settings app and choose General > Software Update and install the update from there.
Editors' Recommendations Best Black Friday MacBook deals: Get an Apple laptop from $505 A new iMac Pro could still launch. Here’s what I want from it 7 trackpad gestures for Mac that everyone should know How to watch Apple’s ‘Scary Fast’ Mac launch event if you missed it Here’s how to combine PDF files the easy way Apple How-To Guides Mac Software Computing Apple's MacBooks feature several options related to conserving the system’s battery and the amount of charge it has left. The main way it achieves this is through sleep mode, which puts the Apple laptop into a temporary sleeping mode that uses the least amount of power possible while still giving you the option to wake it up immediately and continue from where you left off.
If you don't want sleep mode to interrupt what you and your MacBook are doing, though, there are a few ways to keep it always running – here's how to do it.
Computing Thanks to the massive success of Apple Silicon, Macs have become increasingly tempting. Plenty of folks are heading back to the Mac for the first time in years, and in doing so, making the dramatic switch from Windows 11 to macOS.
When it comes to these operating systems, though, they're not equal across the board. And in the end, here are the five things that keep me coming back to Windows 11.
Device support Computing Apple’s latest operating system, macOS Sonoma, has launched, and it brings with it a bunch of great new features for your Mac. But upgrading your Apple computer could lead to problems, and while this won’t happen to everyone, it can be frustrating when issues arise.
Fortunately, there’s help at hand. We’ve put together a list of the most common macOS Sonoma problems and how to fix them. Just follow these tips and they could help you out of a tricky spot. We’ve added links to Apple’s official guidance throughout, so be sure to check them out for more assistance.
macOS Sonoma won’t download Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
