Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Guides How to download macOS 14 Sonoma By Jon Martindale and Alex Blake Close Apple's macOS Sonoma (also known as macOS 14) has a bunch of exciting new features, including game mode, desktop widgets, and a new presenter mode for video calls. Is your Mac ready for it? If so, you'll want to download it as soon as possible to take advantage of all the new features and security enhancements. Make sure you back up your most important information before you do, but once you're ready, here's how to download macOS 14.
macOS Sonoma compatibility Download macOS Sonoma macOS Sonoma new features Difficulty Duration What You Need Mac or MacBook with support for macOS 14 macOS Sonoma compatibility Before you can download macOS Sonoma, it's important to check whether your Mac supports it. At the announcement for the new version of macOS, Apple also detailed which Macs can run it. They include: MacBook Air from 2018 or later MacBook Pro from 2018 or later Mac Mini from 2018 or later Mac Pro from 2019 or later iMac from 2019 or later iMac Pro from 2017 or later Mac Studio from 2022 or later If your MacBook or Mac is older than these models, then unfortunately macOS 13 Ventura is the last version of macOS you'll be able to download. If you haven't upgraded to that version yet, here's how to update your Mac.
Apple Download macOS Sonoma After months of being in public beta, Apple has finally released macOS Sonoma in full. Downloading and installing it is free and very easy, and we’ll walk you through all the necessary steps below. As this is a major update of your computer’s operating system, you should be sure to back up your Mac before you get started. That can help turn things around if anything goes wrong during the installation process.
With all that out of the way, let’s find out how to download and install macOS Sonoma.
Step 1: Open the System Settings app, either by clicking the Apple logo in the menu bar, then System Settings , or by clicking the cog icon in your Mac’s Dock.
Step 2: In System Settings, click General > Software Update.
 Give the app a few seconds to search for updates. If your Mac is compatible with macOS Sonoma, you should see a notice to download the software update. Click Upgrade Now.
MacBook Pro 14-inch vs. MacBook Pro 13-inch: Which one should you buy? How to downgrade from macOS Sonoma to an older version How to use a blue light filter on your PC or Mac Step 3: Your Mac will now start downloading and installing macOS Sonoma. When it is ready, you will be prompted to restart your Mac. In that case, click Restart Now.
Step 4: Your Mac might need to restart several times as it installs macOS Sonoma. This is normal -- just let it do its thing, which could take some time.
Step 5: Once the installation process has finished, your Mac will load onto your login screen. Congratulations, you’ve just successfully installed macOS Sonoma and can start enjoy all its new features.
Apple macOS Sonoma new features Unlike some past macOS updates, macOS Sonoma doesn’t feature many massive new features, probably due to the engineering effort required to make visionOS for the new Vision Pro headset.
 However, there are plenty of great reasons to upgrade.
One of the niftiest new macOS Sonoma features is the upgraded screen saver system. Apple has introduced a bunch of video wallpapers and screen savers, which integrate together beautifully when activated. When a video screen saver begins, it seamlessly shifts from your desktop picture to the screen saver, with the camera traveling through the air or underwater. When the screen saver ends, it settles back into your wallpaper, which is now based on where the screen saver was when it finished.
Alex Blake / Digital Trends In addition, macOS Sonoma now lets you place interactive widgets on the desktop, instead of hiding them away inside the Notification Center. You can even use widgets for apps that are not installed on your Mac, provided you have them on your iPhone or iPad.
Apple has also tweaked video calls in macOS Sonoma. In FaceTime, you can perform a variety of hand gestures -- such as a thumbs-up or peace sign -- and FaceTime will launch a range of background effects, like fireworks and floating balloons. You also get more control over Continuity Camera, with toggles for Portrait mode strength, Center Stage field of view, and more.
There are many more features in macOS Sonoma, from Game Mode to passkey sharing, so be sure to check out our hands-on review to see what else Apple has included.
Want to know what you can do with your new install? Here are some of the best features of macOS Sonoma you can try out.
Editors' Recommendations All the best macOS Sonoma tips and tricks you need to know How to add and use desktop widgets in macOS Sonoma 7 trackpad gestures for Mac that everyone should know How to watch Apple’s ‘Scary Fast’ Mac launch event if you missed it Here’s how to combine PDF files the easy way Apple How-To Guides Software Computing Apple's MacBooks feature several options related to conserving the system’s battery and the amount of charge it has left. The main way it achieves this is through sleep mode, which puts the Apple laptop into a temporary sleeping mode that uses the least amount of power possible while still giving you the option to wake it up immediately and continue from where you left off.
If you don't want sleep mode to interrupt what you and your MacBook are doing, though, there are a few ways to keep it always running – here's how to do it.
Computing Thanks to the massive success of Apple Silicon, Macs have become increasingly tempting. Plenty of folks are heading back to the Mac for the first time in years, and in doing so, making the dramatic switch from Windows 11 to macOS.
When it comes to these operating systems, though, they're not equal across the board. And in the end, here are the five things that keep me coming back to Windows 11.
Device support Computing If you're a YouTube fan like us, you might want to know what the most viewed YouTube videos are, and how to download YouTube videos.
Downloading a video from YouTube doesn’t seem like a big deal at first glance, but it comes with ethical concerns to consider, depending on the original post’s intent. And it's something Google definitely doesn't want you doing — it's a clear violation of YouTube's Terms of Service, but it's even more important to keep the original content creators in mind.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
