Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Guides Common macOS Sonoma problems and how to fix them By Alex Blake Close Apple’s latest operating system, macOS Sonoma , has launched, and it brings with it a bunch of great new features for your Mac. But upgrading your Apple computer could lead to problems, and while this won’t happen to everyone, it can be frustrating when issues arise.
macOS Sonoma won’t download macOS Sonoma installation failed Battery is draining too quickly Wi-Fi isn’t working or is disconnecting Bluetooth isn’t working Apps crashing in macOS Sonoma Fortunately, there’s help at hand. We’ve put together a list of the most common macOS Sonoma problems and how to fix them. Just follow these tips and they could help you out of a tricky spot. We’ve added links to Apple’s official guidance throughout, so be sure to check them out for more assistance.
macOS Sonoma won’t download Digital Trends It’s no secret that downloading macOS Sonoma can be a hefty task given the sheer size of the installer file you need to acquire. That can cause problems when you’re trying to update your Mac , and you might find that your download gets hung up, aborts, or doesn’t even start.
If you’re having trouble downloading the macOS update, the first thing to check is whether your Mac is compatible with macOS Sonoma.
 Apple has a handy list of compatible Macs on its website — take a look and see if yours made the cut. If it didn’t, you won’t be able to download macOS Sonoma.
If your Mac is compatible, the next thing to check is your Mac’s free storage space. The installer file for macOS Sonoma takes up around 13GB, and you’ll need 25GB of free space on your Mac once it’s finished installing. If you don’t have that, try to clear up space so you can download macOS Sonoma.
Finally, and this may sound obvious, but make sure your Mac is connected to the internet. If you’ve got internet problems , you won’t be able to download the installer until they’re sorted out.
macOS Sonoma installation failed Apple OK, you’ve downloaded the macOS Sonoma installer, but the installation has failed.
 Now what? In cases like this, it might be worth trying again in safe mode.
Safe mode basically runs macOS in a bare-bones way that prevents certain apps and processes from loading. That can help you identify problems — if something runs in safe mode, but doesn’t ordinarily, an app could be causing issues.
The way you launch safe mode depends on if your Mac has Apple silicon or an Intel chip. For the former, turn off your Mac, then press and hold the power button until Loading startup options appears on the screen. Select your main Mac volume from the subsequent list, then click Continue in Safe Mode.
 Your Mac will restart. When you log in, you should see the phrase Safe Boot in the menu bar.
For an Intel Mac, restart your Mac, then immediately hold the Shift key until you see the login window. Log in as usual (you might be asked to log in a second time afterwards). In the menu bar, you should now see Safe Boot.
Once you’re in safe mode, try installing macOS Sonoma again.
Battery is draining too quickly Digital Trends Here’s a common problem people face after updating their Mac to a new version: the battery is draining too quickly.
 Luckily, this often is not a long-term thing, and it could even clear itself up without you needing to do anything.
That’s because when you update your Mac to a new version of the operating system, it has to reindex all of the files on your computer (this helps you find them with Spotlight , for instance). This process can take up extra resources, hence the battery drain. It should be finished after no longer than a week, after which your battery usage should go back to normal.
If things still aren’t right, there could be another cause. To find out what that is, open the Activity Monitor app. This shows how much of your system resources are being used up, be that for the CPU, graphics card , memory, network, or something else. Try sorting the columns so that the most demanding apps are at the top.
Digital Trends If you find the culprit, know what it is, and don’t need it to be open, you can close it. Don’t close apps and processes you can’t identify, though — it’s best to look them up first. They could be important, and closing them might cause unexpected issues.
You can also try disabling login items to see if that helps. These are processes that run as soon as you log in on your Mac, but they’re not always necessary. To see a list of login items, open the System Settings app and select General > Login Items.
 Make a note of the items, then remove them all and restart your Mac. If that solves the battery drain, add them back one by one until you find the problem app.
Finally, it could simply be that your battery is old and has started degrading. To check, open System Settings and choose Battery in the sidebar. If it says Service recommended , you might need to replace your battery. To do that, visit an Apple Store or a third-party repair shop.
Wi-Fi isn’t working or is disconnecting Digital Trends Wi-Fi problems can be incredibly frustrating, and the situation is no different in macOS Sonoma. Fortunately, there are lots of ways to fix the problem. First, check your router — if something’s not right there, you might need to follow specific instructions from your provider, so visit its website for more guidance.
Next, open System Settings and select Wi-Fi in the sidebar. Try toggling Wi-Fi off then on again.
 Next, try restarting your Mac. Steps like these may seem basic, but sometimes they’re all you need to do to get things sorted.
If those steps don’t work, check your other devices. Can they connect to Wi-Fi? If so, the problem is probably localized on your Mac. Select the Wi-Fi icon in your menu bar, then pick Wi-Fi Recommendations and follow the suggested tips. Or hold Option and selct the Wi-Fi icon again, then click Open Wireless Diagnostics and follow the instructions.
The last thing of note is that some internet service providers don’t like VPN services and can throttle the connection to any device using one. This setting is often found in the provider’s online safety or safe browsing preferences. How you access this setting will depend on your provider, but disabling it could help.
Bluetooth isn’t working Digital Trends Bluetooth problems can cause all sorts of trouble on your Mac, from breaking AirDrop to preventing your wireless headphones from connecting. Getting Bluetooth working again doesn’t have to be difficult, though.
As with the Wi-Fi, it’s worth trying to disable then reenable Bluetooth first and foremost. To do this, open System Settings and select Bluetooth in the sidebar. Here, disable Bluetooth and turn it on again. If that doesn’t work, try restarting your Mac. Now, try pairing your Bluetooth device again.
Still having trouble? If you have connected a problematic Bluetooth device to your Mac in the past and it is still in the list of connected devices (but won’t pair now), select the i button next to the device’s name, then select Forget This Device > Forget Device.
 Once that’s done, try pairing it to your Mac to see if that works.
Apps crashing in macOS Sonoma Digital Trends Some apps installed on your Mac might have issues with macOS Sonoma that lead to them crashing.
 This could be due to incompatibility or something else entirely. The first step to take is to check the app for updates. Most of the time, this can be found by clicking the app’s name in your menu bar. In the menu that appears, you might see an option labeled Check for updates (or something similar). If not, try opening the app’s settings and see if you can check for updates there.
If updating the app doesn’t fix the problem, try uninstalling the app and reinstalling it.
 This isn’t guaranteed to work, but it might help repair a corrupted file that is wreaking havoc in your macOS Sonoma installation.
It’s also worth checking the app developer’s website to see if it offers any guidance. It might be aware of the problem, and may have published a workaround.
Editors' Recommendations The MacBook Pro M3 doesn’t have a memory problem — it has a pricing problem 7 trackpad gestures for Mac that everyone should know Common Microsoft Teams problems and how to fix them This dangerous new Mac malware steals your credit card info The best Mac apps for 2023: top software for your Mac Apple Mac Software Computing If you're new to the Mac, the first question people have is how to take a screenshot. There's no Print Screen key, so you'll be forgiven if it's not immediately obvious. Or hey, maybe you just forgot the keyboard shortcut or want to go deep into the very best screenshot apps available. We got ya.
There are plenty of options and customizations, so there's plenty to dig into. Here’s everything you could ever want to know about taking a screenshot on your Mac.
How to take a screenshot using keyboard shortcuts MacOS keyboard shortcuts are the quickest ways to take screenshots, whether you're capturing the entire screen or just a portion. By default, Apple's methods save your screenshot to the desktop, but if you want to copy the screenshot to the clipboard, there's a keyboard shortcut you can use instead.
How to capture a selected area Computing Many Mac owners swear that keyboard shortcuts help simplify their lives. If you’re new to a Mac, learning all the available keyboard shortcuts can be a real challenge. Quite a few of these shortcuts will now work in iPadOS, too, thanks to the Magic Keyboard available to iPad Pro users.
We’ve put together a list of the most important shortcuts you should know. You can also take a look at our list of the best Mac apps for even more Apple shortcuts.
The most important shortcuts Computing When Apple announced it would revolutionize the world of Mac gaming at its Worldwide Developers Conference (WWDC) in June, many people were skeptical. But the latest update to the company’s Game Porting Toolkit has made some important changes to how games run on the Mac -- and the results are impressive.
The toolkit allows developers to move their Windows games across to macOS Sonoma. Games makers can test out how well their products run on Apple’s hardware and find out what they need to do to make the jump, something that Apple says ends up “significantly reducing the total development time.” Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
