Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Guides How to use Split View on a Mac By Erika Rawes and Mark Coppock Close When you want to see multiple tabs on one macOS screen without everything getting jumbled, turn to the Split View feature. Split screens allow you to have two or more sections, each displaying a different app. These sections allow you to work more efficiently and see more information without having a second screen.
Get started with Split View Adjusting Split View Split View options Window snapping A quick word about Mission Control In newer versions of macOS, there’s a very easy split-screen mode called Split View that anyone with an updated Mac can use. In this guide, we’ll teach you how to use Split View on a Mac to make the most of your system.
Difficulty Duration What You Need A Mac running macOS Catalina or later.
While connecting multiple external monitors is always a possibility for larger projects, here’s how to divide your screen on a smaller level whenever you need it.
Digital Trends Get started with Split View Step 1: Begin by opening two or more windows that you want to be paired in a split-screen layout: browser windows, apps, documents — whatever you want. Pick your first window, and look in its upper-left corner to find three colored dots: red, yellow, and green. These control the window.
Step 2: If you hover the cursor over the Green dot , it presents two small “expand” arrows. Hold down on this Green dot , and a list of options appears: Enter full screen , Tile window to left of screen , and Tile window to right of screen.
 Select either the second or third option, and the window will fill that portion of your display.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 3: One half of your Split View is done. You’ll see the first app on one half of the screen, with thumbnails of any other open windows on the other side. Select the other window that you want to use in Split View mode, and it will expand to fill the void, completing the Split View experience. You can tap either window to switch your primary focus as needed.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Image used with permission by copyright holder Adjusting Split View Split View doesn’t necessarily need to divide your screen equally. You can click and hold on the Black divider line and slide it left or right to adjust each half of the screen. This is particularly useful if you’re trying to view a large webpage with an odd design or need extra space for a big spreadsheet. Just note that some apps — like Apple’s Photos, for example — have minimum widths, so you may not be able to adjust the bar much or even at all.
If you realize you prefer the windows on different sides, simply click and hold an app’s Title bar and drag it over to the opposite side. The windows will automatically switch places.
Not sure where your menus have gone? Split View automatically hides the menu bar (and Dock). Just move your pointer to the top of the screen, and it reappears while your pointer remains, giving you access to each app’s menus while you’re using Split View.
Finally, if the windows are too small, you can adjust your resolution.
When you’re ready to leave Split View mode, click on the Green dot on either window or press Esc.
 This will return both windows to their original state and allow you to resume what you were doing before entering Split View.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Split View options If you hold Option (or Alt ) and click the Green button in a window’s top-left corner, you get three new options: Zoom , Move window to left side of screen , and Move window to right side of screen.
Whereas Enter full screen hides the Dock and menu bar, Zoom keeps these in place. The difference between tiling a window and moving it is similar — tiling hides the Dock and menu bar, while moving does not. Moving also doesn’t enter Split View — there’s no moveable black bar when you just move a window to either side of the screen. You don’t need to pair a second app, either.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Window snapping Mac users waited many long years, but macOS now has native window snapping, just like Windows 10 and later. Click and drag a window to one of the four sides or four corners of your display, and a translucent box will appear in front of it. This indicates the shape the window will occupy. Release the mouse button, and it’ll automatically snap to this position.
MacOS Catalina (and newer) gives you different options: Drag a window into a corner, and it’ll take up 25% of your screen.
Drag it to the top portion of either the left or right side of the screen, and it’ll fill the top half of the display. Do the same for the bottom portion of the left or right side, and it’ll fill the bottom half of your screen.
Drag the window to the left or right of the screen without going near the corner of your display, and it’ll fill the left or right half.
Drag it to the bottom of the screen to make it fill the middle third.
Drag it to the top of the screen to make the app full-screen. Note that if you then drag a little farther up, you’ll enter Mission Control, so you have to be careful with this.
Given there are so many choices, it may take a bit of practice to find the various sweet spots. But adding this functionality to macOS is a definite boost for Mac users, who have been deprived of this useful function for far too long.
Note that window snapping is not the same as Split View — apps won’t enter full screen when you drag them into place, and there’s no black bar to adjust their size.
Image used with permission by copyright holder A quick word about Mission Control Do you have several windows open at once and want something more comprehensive to view them all? Mission Control can help.
This mode displays all your open windows in a ribbon-like view that lets you quickly jump from one to another. Mission Control also lets you create multiple virtual desktops (or “spaces”), each with its own apps and windows open. These are also displayed on the ribbon, allowing you to easily move from one desktop to another.
You can access Mission Control in many ways, but one of the easiest is to simply drag a window up to the top edge of your screen, which should automatically enter Mission Control mode. Alternatively, Apple keyboards typically include a Mission Control button ( F3 or it has an icon that looks like three rectangles) or, if you have a trackpad, you can swipe upward with either three or four fingers (depending on your trackpad settings).
You can enter Mission Control while in Split View, too, which is an easy way of switching windows as necessary. Mission Control also helps you switch to Split View when you have two full-screen apps open. Just activate Mission Control, and then drag your app window on top of another window or app icon. This should immediately activate Split View.
Editors' Recommendations All the best macOS Sonoma tips and tricks you need to know How to add and use desktop widgets in macOS Sonoma How to calibrate your monitor to make it better for free How to downgrade from macOS Sonoma to an older version 7 trackpad gestures for Mac that everyone should know Apple How-To Apple How-To Guides Mac Software Computing Researchers are continually releasing studies on the potential harm of blue light. When you stare at a screen all day and into the evening, it can affect your sleep and disrupt your body's natural rhythms. For these reasons, blue light filters are incredibly important.
Computing Apple Event - October 30 Apple revealed refreshed Mac computers and its latest chip at its special “Scary Fast” event on Monday.
Computing In digital imaging, two image formats prevail above all else: JPEG (or JPG) and PNG.
At first glance, a single image shown in both formats might seem identical, but if you look closely enough and dig into the data, there is quite a difference between them. One format isn't always better than the other, as each is designed to be used in specific circumstances based on your needs for image quality, file size, and more. Here's what you need to know about both formats to make the most of their strengths and weaknesses.
What is the JPEG format? Short for Joint Photographic Experts Group -- the team that developed the format -- JPEG has become the standard compressed format in digital photography and online image sharing due to its careful balance of file size and image quality.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
