Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? NordVPN Free Trial: Try the service for free for a month By Andrew Morrisey Close You should not be browsing online, streaming, shopping, or downloading content, without protecting yourself and your virtual identity. In this day and age, our entire lives are on our computers and phones. Sensitive information like passwords, credit card numbers and social security numbers are just sitting on our devices, waiting for a savvy hacker to sweep them up. Thankfully there are some simple security measures we can use to prevent attacks. Virtual Private Networks (VPNs) are an easy way to add a buffer to your security, and access restricted content from around the world.
Is there a NordVPN free trial? Can you get NordVPN for free? Are there any NordVPN deals? VPNs are premium subscription services though, meaning they’re not free (well, some are, but you probably shouldn’t use them).
VPN deals can cut some cash off the price tag, but there’s only one way to get one absolutely free — free trials. NordVPN is one of the best VPN services , so the NordVPN free trial is very popular. It’s great for security, and it’s the best VPN for Netflix.
 Read on to learn how you can take advantage of the NordVPN free trial.
Is there a NordVPN free trial? Image used with permission by copyright holder There isn’t a NordVPN free trial as the standard definition goes, but NordVPN is so certain of its VPN service that it provides a 30-day money-back guarantee. Jumping on this allows you to enjoy full access to the award-winning VPN service completely risk-free. You’ll need to select a monthly, annual, or 2-year plan, and if you aren’t satisfied it’s a service you need or want after 30 days, all you have to do is let NordVPN know you aren’t satisfied, and you’ll receive a full refund.
While this isn’t a traditional free trial, it’s particularly worth considering if you know you want a VPN, or if you’re comparing NordVPN vs. TunnelBear , or NordVPN vs. CyberGhost , or NordVPN against any other VPN service. Capitalizing on the 30-day money-back guarantee allows current VPN users to see if they prefer NordVPN to their current VPN service, and new VPN users to test the benefits of using a VPN.
 For more information on whether or not you want to test out NordVPN or any other VPN service, you can research everything you need to know about VPNs , and there are a lot of other VPN free trial opportunities to pounce on as well.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
Can you get NordVPN for free? The closest way to get NordVPN for free is to capitalize on the previously mentioned 30-day money-back guarantee. However, NordVPN is a top-notch service and is always one of the best VPN services. If you know you want a VPN, NordVPN is worth its cost, and with a 2-year plan you can get NordVPN Complete, Plus, or Standard plans for as little as $3 per month right now. Factored into this price is three free months of NordVPN service, which is calculated as more of a discount than free service, and isn’t available on annual or monthly plans.
Are there any NordVPN deals? NordVPN NordVPN often has amazing discounts on its annual and 2-year plans, and right now you can get up to 68% off a NordVPN plan. You can currently get NordVPN’s top-tier Complete Plan for $5 per month with an annual commitment and about $6 per month with a 2-year commitment. The middle-tiered Plus Plan is $4 per month for annual service and $4.50 per month with two years of service. And the entry-level Standard Plan is $3 for annual service and just $3.30 per month with a 2-year commitment. All of those plans also include three extra months. NordVPN’s 30-day money-back guarantee is part of each of these plans, so you can give NordVPN a try with zero risk of long-term commitment.
Alternatives you can always check out include the Cyberghost free trial , ExpressVPN free trial , and IPVanish free trial.
Editors' Recommendations Surfshark’s Black Friday deal gets you a VPN for $4 a month Skillshare Free Trial: Learn for a month for free Squarespace Free Trial: Build and host your website for free QuickBooks Free Trial: Get a month of accounting for free Adobe Photoshop Free Trial: Get a month of editing for free Deals Cheapest Prices Free Trial Software VPN Deals When entering a hazardous property and dealing with dangerous chemicals, you wear a hazmat suit. While there is no "hazmat" suit for browsing online, there is still a way to do your business from behind a suitable wall of protection. A VPN or virtual private network can give you a small degree of protection and help you preserve your privacy and security, one much like ExpressVPN. If you're looking for an ExpressVPN free trial or simply want to know what deals are out there, we've got you covered. There are plenty of benefits to using a VPN, so it's important you sign up to one of the best VPN services around to keep safe online. Of course, no one wants to have to pay more than they have to, and it's always a great idea to give a service or experience a test run before you dole out any money. That's why a VPN free trial is a great starting point. Here's all you need to know about the ExpressVPN free trial and other deals.
Is there an ExpressVPN free trial? ExpressVPN doesn't actually offer its own free trial. Instead, it has a 30-day money-back guarantee. That means if you're not entirely happy with the service, you can cancel it before the month is up and get your money back.
Deals In your pocket, you carry a doorway to an entirely new dimension -- the digital world. Smartphones are powerful computers, more powerful than so many systems that came before, but with that comes a certain degree of risk. From banking to social engagements and beyond, we’re all more susceptible to cyber threats. Issues like hacking, identity theft, data collection, and targeted advertising are all extremely prescient. A virtual private network, or a VPN, can make consuming the digital world a much more private endeavor, and offer a small degree of protection, and some of the best VPN services offer a free trial. A good example of this is a CyberGhost free trial, which full access to CyberGhosts’ premium level features completely free. CyberGhost is among of the best VPN for streaming, as well as the best VPN for iPhone or iPad, making a CyberGhost free trial worth taking advantage of.
Is there a CyberGhost free trial? There is a CyberGhost free trial, and it’s one of the best VPN free trials you’ll come across. A CyberGhost free trial gets you full access to all of CyberGhost’s premium-level features with zero financial commitment, and it doesn’t even require you to provide credit card details to capitalize on it. The free trial allows you to enjoy the ultimate online experience on desktop or mobile. This includes access to CyberGhost’s one-click connect for instant, effortless VPN protection, access to CyberGhost’s blazing fast servers and IPs from 91 countries to choose from, as well as anonymous IPs that let you stream geo-restricted content and smart rules that allow you to create your own privacy triggers.
Deals The titular office suite, and one that just about everyone knows, called Microsoft Office, includes the renowned word processor Microsoft Word. But with the recent versions of its software, Microsoft has migrated to the cloud. Microsoft Word is a versatile and capable word processor that's essential for typing and editing written documents, among other things (and there are a lot of things you probably didn't know you could do in Microsoft Word). Microsoft Office is paid software, however, Word is included, and for some, the cost may seem high even with some of the best Microsoft Office deals floating around. So, if you're wondering if there's a Microsoft Word free trial or any other way to get it for free, read on to find out.
Is there a Microsoft Word free trial? Microsoft Word is actually part of the company's wider Office app suite. Now known simply as Microsoft 365 (formerly Microsoft Office), Microsoft's enterprise software is available in a number of different packages that are now subscription-based; the company has retired the older bundles that were available for a one-time payment. That means if you want a Microsoft Word free trial, you'll need to sign up for the Microsoft 365 trial, which includes the Word app along with Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook, Teams, OneDrive, and Editor.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
