Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps Convert PDF to Word Page Numbers in Word Double Space in Word Table of Contents in Word Home Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Microsoft Word Free Trial: Get a month of service for free By Lucas Coll Close The titular office suite, and one that just about everyone knows, called Microsoft Office, includes the renowned word processor Microsoft Word. But with the recent versions of its software, Microsoft has migrated to the cloud. Microsoft Word is a versatile and capable word processor that’s essential for typing and editing written documents, among other things (and there are a lot of things you probably didn’t know you could do in Microsoft Word ). Microsoft Office is paid software, however, Word is included, and for some, the cost may seem high even with some of the best Microsoft Office deals floating around. So, if you’re wondering if there’s a Microsoft Word free trial or any other way to get it for free, read on to find out.
Is there a Microsoft Word free trial? Can you get Microsoft Word for free? Are there any Microsoft Word deals? Is there a Microsoft Word free trial? Romain V/Unsplash Microsoft Word is actually part of the company’s wider Office app suite. Now known simply as Microsoft 365 (formerly Microsoft Office), Microsoft’s enterprise software is available in a number of different packages that are now subscription-based; the company has retired the older bundles that were available for a one-time payment. That means if you want a Microsoft Word free trial, you’ll need to sign up for the Microsoft 365 trial, which includes the Word app along with Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook, Teams , OneDrive , and Editor.
The good news is that the Microsoft 365 free trial gives you a month of service. That’s plenty of time to enjoy Microsoft Word for free, as well as to try out the rest of the Microsoft 365 apps so you can decide whether you want to pay for it after your trial period is up. You do need to provide your credit card information upfront, though, and it’s, of course, up to you to cancel your subscription before the trial period is over if you don’t want to be billed the annual subscription rate.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
Can you get Microsoft Word for free? Sadly, there’s no way for most of us to get Microsoft Word without paying (outside of taking advantage of the Microsoft Word free trial via the above offer). Nevertheless, you might be able to get it for free through your school or workplace, so you may want to look into that and see if it’s available to you depending on your circumstances. Otherwise, grab the Microsoft 365 trial to get Microsoft Word free for one month, and then if you decide it’s worth paying for, take some time to look for any Microsoft Office deals that might be available to save you some money on your subscription.
Finally, university students may have access to the free Office 365 Education edition, which includes Word, Excel, PowerPoint, OneNote, and Teams. If you have a valid .edu email address, you can to see if you’re eligible to get Office 365 Education edition for free.
Alternatively, you might consider the Adobe free trial or the Adobe Photoshop free trial if you have any illustration or design work that needs to be done. Then, of course, there’s the Quickbooks free trial if you have any financial or accounting work you need done. It’s always good to know what else is out there, particularly when it comes to affordable software options.
Are there any Microsoft Word deals? justplay1412 / Shutterstock If you’ve used up your Microsoft Word trial and you’re ready to buy, you might want to actually cancel your subscription rather than let yourself be billed for the full retail price.
Microsoft Office deals abound, with retailers like Amazon, Best Buy, Newegg, and others offering fairly frequent markdowns on Microsoft’s software suite. Typically, you’ll see savings of $10 to $30 on your first year of service for the Microsoft 365 Personal, Business, and Family suites. Other bargains to look out for include package deals that bundle Microsoft 365 with other software; it’s frequently bundled with security software from brands like McAfee, AVG, and Norton.
Editors' Recommendations Netflix free trial: Can you stream for free in 2023? Hulu Free Trial: Stream for a month without paying a dime NordVPN Free Trial: Try the service for free for a month Wix Free Trial: Can you build a website for free? Amazon Prime free trial: Get an entire month for free Computing Business Cheapest Prices Free Trial Microsoft Software Deals Marketing will make or break your new venture. A lot more goes into running a traditional or ecommerce business than just registering a new domain, making a website -- even with a Wix free trial -- and calling it a day. Potential customers must be made aware that your business exists, and for that to happen in the digital age, you need to make use of modern online marketing tools. That's a broad field, though, encompassing keyword research, search engine optimization, data analytics, and other elements that can be pretty technical (not to mention intimidating) to the uninitiated. Enter Semrush, one of the best online marketing suites that makes all that stuff easy -- but it's not free. Maybe you want to give it a try before signing up for a premium subscription? If that's the case and you are looking for a Semrush free trial, then you're in luck. Read on. We have all the details for you, below.
Is there a Semrush free trial? Deals Through E-learning, or remote learning, you can study, research, and experience a traditional school curriculum, from the comfort of your home. Imagine learning entirely new skills or abilities? Virtual learning has evolved quite a bit over the last few years, and whether you’re a teacher, a student, a parent, or somebody just looking to grow, the best online learning platforms are worthy of consideration. Skillshare is a regular on this list, as it offers classes in subjects that range from animation to photography, and from business analytics to marketing. But these services and platforms can be expensive, so it warrants giving them a try before spending any of your hard-earned cash. A Skillshare free trial is a good way to dive into the full depth of Skillshare’s offerings. A Skillshare free trial, in fact, will allow you to explore thousands of hands-on creative classes and see if it’s the right platform for you to put your money into.
Is there a Skillshare free trial? There is a Skillshare free trial, and unlike a MasterClass free trial, which is really just a 30-day money back guarantee if you don’t like the platform once you’ve paid, with a Skillshare free trial you get 7 days of access without having to make any sort of payment, though you do need to put a payment method on file. Like all of the best free trials, a Skillshare free trial is truly free, with only the commitment of having to create an account. This will get you instant access to thousands of classes, and with one full month to explore it all, there’s no hurry to rush through anything and plenty of time to learn at your own pace.
Deals You don't have to rush to download music to an MP3 or media player anymore. With the right service, you can stream any song, any album, and pretty much from any device from the cloud. Sometimes, even if you don't have an active internet connection, you can download that content to listen to offline -- like if you're going hiking or on a cruise out in the ocean. Nothing makes this reality more apparent than the plethora of music streaming services available now; Apple Music, Spotify, Pandora, and even YouTube are popular platforms people use to stream tunes, but we'd be remiss if we didn't also mention one of the biggest ones: Amazon Music. You're likely already familiar with Amazon Prime Video, but this online retail giant is also host to one of the most popular music streaming apps. Just like Prime Video, Amazon Music isn't free, but if you want to sign up and give it a listen without paying, read on. You'll find everything you need to know about the Amazon Music free trial below.
Is there an Amazon Music free trial? Yes, there is an Amazon Music free trial, and quite a generous one at that: New subscribers who sign up can enjoy 30 days of Amazon Music totally free, which is one of the better trial offers we've seen. Better still, this trial period applies to the full Amazon Music Unlimited experience, letting you enjoy more than 90 million songs ad-free. You do need to enter your payment information, but you probably already have an Amazon account, so your info is likely on file. All you have to do is sign in, start your trial, and you're ready to listen.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
