Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Features After four months with the ROG Ally, I’m going back to my Steam Deck By Jacob Roach Close By nearly all objective measures, the ROG Ally is better than the Steam Deck.
 It has solid battery life, a nicer screen, more power, and Windows 11, allowing it to access a much wider library of games than the Steam Deck offers. After four months of using both devices, though, I’m fine keeping my Steam Deck.
What you want, what you need Still a work in progress A handheld companion That might surprise you, especially if you caught my ROG Ally review when I first took a look at the device nearly four months ago. I even tried replacing my desktop with the device on the strength of Asus’ impressive XG Mobile. But after using the ROG Ally for just about every purpose possible, I’ve been picking up my Steam Deck to play games.
What you want, what you need Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Let’s get this out of the way upfront: In you don’t have a PC, and you don’t already own a Steam Deck, the ROG Ally is your best bet. It’s faster, supports Windows, so on and so forth. But if you already have a gaming device you’re satisfied with, be it a PC or a current-gen console, the Steam Deck is ideal.
Steam Deck OLED fixes the worst part of Valve’s handheld Windows is holding back the future of handheld gaming WD’s new SSD is the Steam Deck upgrade you’ve been waiting for This really comes down to performance. The ROG Ally may be able to run Cyberpunk 2077 faster than the Steam Deck, but the strength of both devices doesn’t lie in those massive, AAA experiences that are best suited for a TV or monitor. There are reasons games like Vampire Survivors, Dead Cells, Hades, and Dredge top the list of the most played Steam Deck games.
Those AAA experiences still have their place — titles like Elden Ring and The Witcher 3 are among the best Steam Deck games you can play — but it’s the smaller, less expansive titles where the Steam Deck shines. It’s not all about raw power, and the Steam Deck offers enough performance to play those massive games when you want to burn through your battery in an hour or two.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends The ROG Ally certainly runs them better, but it’s hard to base any performance conclusions solely around the most demanding titles these devices can run. A good chunk of the games you’ll play will likely run identically on both devices.
That’s where the Steam Deck wins. It’s just powerful enough to serve as your handheld companion if you have another device where you play your games. I do, and I’m always going to choose to play demanding games on another platform versus my Steam Deck. If I absolutely need to pick up some time in a game like Resident Evil 4 or Hogwarts Legacy, I’m fine trading some performance with the device.
Still a work in progress Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Both the ROG Ally and Steam Deck have seen a barrage of updates since they launched, but the ROG Ally still feels like a work in progress. Two months after the device launched, Asus admitted it could fry micro SD cards.
 And constant tweaks to performance meant myself, along with dozens of other reviewers, had to update their reviews due to the fact that the device ran slower than it did back when it first released.
Asus is releasing new updates for the handheld, but it doesn’t feel like the company has found its footing yet. It still feels experimental, with new options being added to the Armoury Crate overlay, others being tweaked, and performance shifting from update to update.
I’m glad to see Asus continue to work on the device to improve it, but Valve is mostly past that step in the Steam Deck’s journey. New updates continue to add features and improve stability instead of focusing on putting out fires. For instance, suspending a game now syncs with the Steam Cloud so you are aware of any file conflicts. And a dreaded battery bug, which plagued some Steam Decks with only minutes of battery life, seems to have been fixed.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Valve is also much faster to fix issues on the Steam Deck, even if they’re only impacting a small number of users. In August, for example, Valve released seven updates for the Steam Deck. In July, when the ROG Ally saw its last big BIOS update, Valve released 11 updates. The Steam Deck still has its quirks, but it finally feels like the stable device Valve originally promised. The ROG Ally isn’t there yet.
I can’t overlook the Deck Verified program , either. It’s a fantastic way to quickly check if upcoming games will run on your device, and the ROG Ally doesn’t have anything like that. The ROG Ally allows you to install games from anywhere, but that also means you’ll have to just try the game to see if it’ll work. If you see the green checkmark on a Steam Deck, you know you’re good to go.
I’ll give you an example.
Forza Horizon 5 was one of the games I was most looking forward to on the ROG Ally due to the fact that it’s available on Game Pass and I don’t own the game on Steam. It runs great on the ROG Ally, but I have to boot it up and force close it a few times before it actually loads. In fairness, this is a problem I see with the Xbox app on PC in general, but the fact remains that on the Steam Deck, I press Play, and games will load up free of issues the vast majority of the time, especially if they’re Verified.
A handheld companion Jacob Roach / Digital Trends There are some folks who only have one device for gaming, and if you must have a handheld gaming PC , the ROG Ally is for you. But frankly, I don’t think you should buy either if you only need one device. Buy a PlayStation 5 or Xbox Series X instead. They’re around the same price, and you’ll get a much better experience.
For me, and I imagine many Steam Deck and ROG Ally owners, they’re companions to a dedicated, stationary gaming setup. In that situation, the Steam Deck wins due to its consistent updates, excellent game support program, and power that meets the threshold for performance without going overboard. It’s even easier to recommend now, too.
Refurbished Steam Decks are available for as little as $320, while you’ll need to spend more than double that to pick up an ROG Ally.
Editors' Recommendations What reviews didn’t say about the Steam Deck OLED This is the one accessory every Steam Deck owner should buy You’ll have to wait a long time for a Steam Deck 2 This Lenovo handheld combines the Steam Deck with the Nintendo Switch Refurbished Steam Decks are now official — here’s how to buy one Gaming Features PC Gaming Computing There are only two apps that automatically open when I turn on my PC: Microsoft Teams and Steam. Steam, for many, is just a gateway to play games on PC, but it's a piece of software dense with features that go beyond tracking playtime and achievements.
I wanted to highlight some of the Steam features that I get the most mileage out of. Keep in mind that there are a ton of options in Steam, and this list barely scratches everything that the platform has to offer. These are just the features I think you should be taking advantage of because they make Steam much more than just a launcher for your games.
File transfer Computing Handheld fever is ramping up. Lenovo is working on a handheld competitor to the Asus ROG Ally and Steam Deck, according to a report from Windows Central, which is called the Legion Go.
The report says that the device will launch with an AMD Phoenix processor along with an 8-inch display. It's not clear if it will use the AMD Ryzen Z1 Extreme as the ROG Ally does, but the report suggests it will launch with one of AMD's Zen 4 mobile processors.
Computing Following a hands-on preview of Armored Core VI: Fires of Rubicon, we had a chance to talk to the game's director, Masaru Yamamura, and producer Yasunori Ogura who wanted to assure players that the game would be "fully supported" on Valve's Steam Deck.
"Obviously seeing how well Elden Ring performed on the Steam Deck, we were very happy, and we wanted to at least create that as a baseline going forward for this handheld," Ogura tells Digital Trends. "So it is fully supported for Steam Deck ... we just want to reassure players that it will be fully supported." Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
