Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck: here’s how they compare By Jacob Roach Close It’s been a few months since I originally wrote my Asus ROG Ally Z1 Extreme review , and the device has changed drastically in that time. It’s still a compelling device that easily beats the Steam Deck in raw performance, but a slew of strange updates has left the ROG Ally in a strange spot compared to the Steam Deck.
It’s all a matter of price Some curious specs A clear performance champ Windows 11 isn’t a done deal Fit and finish The ROG Ally is a winner (with the Z1 Extreme) For those who don’t have a handheld gaming PC, the ROG Ally still wins over the Steam Deck. However, as you can read in our Steam Deck review , Valve’s handheld still continues to be a force in the evolving world of gaming handhelds despite its aging hardware.
It’s all a matter of price Image used with permission by copyright holder Price was the main point in question for the ROG Ally, especially against the aggressively-priced Steam Deck. But it’s clear Asus was ready to fire back at Valve’s handheld with equally aggressive pricing.
The best handheld gaming PCs you can buy Steam Deck OLED fixes the worst part of Valve’s handheld Windows is holding back the future of handheld gaming The ROG Ally with the Z1 Extreme costs $700. It’s currently available from Best Buy exclusively, and although I was worried it would sell out immediately, it’s still in stock for list price. A cheaper model sporting the Ryzen Z1 is available now, too, priced at $600.
The Steam Deck is as cheap as $400, but that’s only with 64GB of slow storage. To get 512GB, which is what the ROG Ally with the Z1 Extreme has, you’ll need to spend $650. A point in the Steam Deck’s favor, however, is that Valve is now offering refurbished Steam Decks that cut the price as low as $320.
Valve is phasing out the 64GB and 512GB models of the Steam Deck now that the Steam Deck OLED is arriving. Instead, you’ll just have the 256GB model, now at $400. The Steam Deck OLED comes in at the same price points, but now with 512GB of storage for $530 and 1TB of $650. The ROG Ally is faster than the Steam Deck, but now, it’s also significantly more expensive.
Some curious specs Jacob Roach / Digital Trends The ROG Ally looks pretty, that’s for sure, but it’s really the underlying hardware that makes Asus’ handheld exciting. The ROG Ally is powered by AMD’s Z1 Series processors, which are custom APUs leveraging Zen 4 CPU cores and RDNA 3 GPU cores. AMD has two of these Z1 processors available, though, and they’re very different.
The Ryzen Z1 comes with six Zen 4 cores and four RDNA 3 cores for a total of up to 2.8 TFLOPS of theoretical performance. The Ryzen Z1 Extreme, by contrast, comes with eight Zen 4 cores and a massive 12 RDNA 3 cores. That enables much higher performance — up to 8.6 TFLOPs, according to AMD.
The ROG Ally was the first device to debut the Z1 Extreme, but there are competitors now.
Lenovo’s upcoming Legion Go packs a Z1 Extreme, and the Ayaneo 2S uses a Ryzen 7 7840U, which is a rebranded version of the Z1 Extreme.
Image used with permission by copyright holder By comparison, the Steam Deck is packing much weaker hardware. Regardless of the model you choose, you’re getting four Zen 2 cores and eight RDNA 2 cores, which offer up to 1.6 TFLOPs of theoretical performance. The Steam Deck’s APU also tops out at 15 watts, while the ROG Ally can go up to 30W in its Turbo mode.
There’s a big difference between the APUs, but the Steam Deck and ROG Ally have some specs in common as well. Both devices come with 16GB of LPDDR5 memory, and they both include a Micro SD card slot for storage expansion. They also both support USB-C for charging and come with a 3.5mm headphone jack.
The Micro SD card is a point of contention. Asus has confirmed that the ROG Ally can cause the Micro SD card to fail under certain thermal conditions. We’ve run one for months without issue, but it’s still an ongoing problem.
A clear performance champ Jacob Roach / Digital Trends There’s no question — the ROG Ally with the Z1 Extreme is faster than the Steam Deck. In an apples-to-apples comparison with the same resolution and APU wattage, the ROG Ally is upwards of 50% faster than the Steam Deck. It’s important to note that the ROG Ally can scale higher, too. The Steam Deck tops out at 15W, but the ROG Ally can go up to 30W in its Turbo mode with the charger plugged in.
It was clear from the start that the ROG Ally would be faster, but it comes with a higher-resolution screen, as well. At 1080p, the ROG Ally starts to slip. It’s still a great performer, though, especially when it can run the most demanding games available today at Medium settings while maintaining close to 30 frames per second (fps).
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Since release, Asus has released a number of updates for the ROG Ally, and they haven’t improved performance. In fact, performance has regressed. As you can see in our retesting of the device in July, it slips a bit in the comparison to the Steam Deck.
Image used with permission by copyright holder It’s still faster, for sure, but it’s disconcerting to see the ROG Ally slip in performance at the whim of a BIOS update. This update was, apparently, meant to improve performance as well. The previous one was even slower.
Thankfully, there’s some room to improve your performance with different performance modes and upscaling. That’s true for both the ROG Ally and the Steam Deck; the ROG Ally can just go higher. You can run its APU between 7W and 30W, while the Steam Deck only operates between 5W and 15W.
I wouldn’t recommend running the ROG Ally at a full 30W, but it’s nice to have the option if you’re close to a charger and want a boot in performance. Turbo mode isn’t practical on the go, though. It will kill your battery quickly.
The Steam Deck and ROG Ally are pretty close in overall battery life. At the default Performance mode on the ROG Ally and the Steam Deck at full tilt, you can get about two hours of a demanding AAA game. Turbo mode on the ROG Ally is much worse — in my testing, the device died in under an hour.
Overall, though, the ROG Ally feels like a quality upgrade over the Steam Deck, not a performance upgrade. It’s faster and more efficient, but you’ll mainly be running games with better visual quality at a higher resolution while getting similar performance and battery life.
There’s also a point to be made here about how you would use a handheld gaming device. Assuming it’s not your only gaming platform, the Steam Deck can make more sense, even if it’s less powerful. That’s a big reason why I switched back to using my Steam Deck after several months with the ROG Ally.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends How about the version with the Ryzen Z1, though? As you can read in our Asus ROG Ally Z1 review , it’s not a great option. Above, you can see that the model with the Ryzen Z1 can’t keep pace with the Steam Deck at 720p with the default Performance mode.
In our testing, the device doesn’t benefit much from higher wattages, either. If you’re considering the Asus ROG Ally with the Ryzen Z1, you should stick with the Steam Deck or spend a little extra on the Z1 Extreme model.
Windows 11 isn’t a done deal Jacob Roach / Digital Trends One of the most important differences between the ROG Ally and Steam Deck is the operating system. The Steam Deck uses Valve’s custom SteamOS, while the ROG Ally will leverage Windows 11.
There are pros and cons no matter which way you look. For the Steam Deck, SteamOS provides an easy-to-use, streamlined interface for handheld gaming. It certainly helps that it’s tied into the largest distribution network for PC games, as well, allowing you to easily shop for new titles.
It has myriad problems, though. For starters, SteamOS is still remarkably buggy. For my own Steam Deck, I have to leave Wi-Fi turned off when I’m away from the charger because the handheld will occasionally get confused and think it’s out of battery, even with a full charge. These types of idiosyncrasies are rampant in SteamOS.
For most people, the biggest difference is that SteamOS is built on Linux. That means you’re locked out of playing quite a few games, including those with anti-cheat software and games on other marketplaces (such as the Xbox app). Windows 11 solves that problem for the ROG Ally, allowing you to play games in other storefronts and titles that use anti-cheat software like Destiny 2.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends There are some downsides to Windows 11, though. The first is that it’s a desktop operating system, not a handheld gaming one. Instead, Asus’ Armoury Crate runs on top of Windows. It allows you to do things like launch games — it hooks into the EA app, Xbox app, Ubisoft Connect, GOG Galaxy, Epic Games Store, and Steam — and configure settings on the device. But it’s not a one-stop shop.
You have to go to the desktop to install your games, and anything that uses a launcher (such as Cyberpunk 2077 ) will pull you back to the desktop, as well. Thankfully, the ROG Ally supports two controller modes through Armoury Crate, so you can quickly swap between desktop mode and gaming mode. The application allows you to bind keyboard and mouse commands to buttons, and even attach shortcuts and actions like opening the Task Manager.
The Steam Deck has usability problems, but those mainly come down to strange bugs. The ROG Ally has those issues inherently, and it feels more like a handheld laptop than a handheld console. The Steam Deck wins here, for sure, but there are usability problems regardless.
Fit and finish Image used with permission by copyright holder One area where the Steam Deck shoots ahead of the ROG Ally is the feel. It’s big and bulky, but Valve makes good use of that space with quality thumbsticks and buttons, as well as trackpads that can be helpful in games that require a lot of precision.
The ROG Ally doesn’t have trackpads, but the real problem is that its buttons don’t feel as good. The thumbsticks are a little cheap, and the D-pad feels terrible. It’s not as bad as a Joy-Con on a Nintendo Switch, but the ROG Ally definitely feels like a $30 knock-off controller.
However, the ROG Ally is more comfortable to hold. It’s slightly lighter but much smaller. I’m much more comfortable pulling out the ROG Ally on a plane over the Steam Deck; it doesn’t feel nearly as unruly.
The ROG Ally is a winner (with the Z1 Extreme) Jacob Roach / Digital Trends The ROG Ally comes with its own problems. It doesn’t immediately solve all the issues of the Steam Deck. But for $50 more, Asus is offering acceptable battery life, better performance, more game support through Xbox Game Pass, and a much nicer screen.
That’s only for the flagship model, though. The base model of the ROG Ally with the Ryzen Z1 is a clear step below the Steam Deck, and it doesn’t have any of the quality-of-life features we see in Valve’s handheld.
However, you shouldn’t ditch your Steam Deck for it.
 The Steam Deck, especially now that the ROG Ally has seen some rough updates, still continues to impress with its stability. The ROG Ally is the device to pick if you don’t already have a handheld gaming PC, but it’s not enough to justify upgrading if you already have a Steam Deck.
That’s even more true now that the Steam Deck OLED is looming on the horizon. We haven’t had the chance to review the handheld yet, but it will balance the scales when it comes to the display, at the very least. Valve is also offering the Steam Deck OLED at a much lower price than the original model, making the Ally look far more expensive by comparison.
Editors' Recommendations The Steam Deck OLED makes the original model obsolete What reviews didn’t say about the Steam Deck OLED This is the one accessory every Steam Deck owner should buy You’ll have to wait a long time for a Steam Deck 2 Asus ROG Ally Z1 vs. Z1 Extreme: don’t make the wrong choice Gaming PC PC Gaming Versus Computing The SSD upgrade you've been waiting on for the Steam Deck and ROG Ally is here. Western Digital revealed its WD_Black SN770M, which is an M.2 2230 SSD that's built specifically for handheld gaming devices.
The new drive is available in three capacities: 500GB, 1TB, and the coveted 2TB size. It's tough to find M.2 2230 SSDs for the Steam Deck, and even tougher to find them at 2TB. Up to this point, popular options have included the Sabrent Rocket and Corsair MP600. Otherwise, you'd have to stalk retailers like Newegg and Amazon to find a good deal on a Micron drive repurposed from another device.
Computing An exciting piece of gossip just dropped, and it might have something to do with the Steam Deck -- or it could be something else entirely. We're talking about a mysterious new device made by Valve that has just received radio certification from the South Korea National Radio Research Agency. Code-named "RC-V1V-1030," the product is referred to as a "low-power wireless device." What's Valve up to now? The problem is that it could be nearly anything. Aside from a Steam Deck 2, or perhaps even just a refresh to the existing console, Valve has expressed interest in making a new virtual reality (VR) gaming headset to follow up on the Valve Index. Even an updated Steam Controller fits the description. The only thing to be learned from the certification is that the device uses 5GHz Wi-Fi, which could apply to all three of those potential products.
Computing By nearly all objective measures, the ROG Ally is better than the Steam Deck. It has solid battery life, a nicer screen, more power, and Windows 11, allowing it to access a much wider library of games than the Steam Deck offers. After four months of using both devices, though, I'm fine keeping my Steam Deck.
That might surprise you, especially if you caught my ROG Ally review when I first took a look at the device nearly four months ago. I even tried replacing my desktop with the device on the strength of Asus' impressive XG Mobile. But after using the ROG Ally for just about every purpose possible, I've been picking up my Steam Deck to play games.
What you want, what you need Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
