Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Features Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? This is the one accessory every Steam Deck owner should buy By Jacob Roach Close Jacob Roach / Digital Trends I’ve been strictly against buying a case for my Steam Deck since I first picked up the handheld. If you haven’t held one, they’re comically big. Every time I’ve given someone my Steam Deck to check out, they have the same reaction: a chuckle, followed by “that’s bigger than I expected.” Why would you want to make it even bigger with a case? That is, until I found a case that works perfectly for my Steam Deck: Dbrand’s Killswitch.
 Not only does it protect your Steam Deck thanks to a rugged exterior, but it provides several other features that make the Steam Deck much more useful for traveling, docking, and handheld play.
That wasn’t the case initially, though. Dbrand released the Killswitch a little over a year ago, but it quickly recalled the case. The included kickstand, which I’ll get to shortly, originally used magnets that interfered with the Steam Deck’s fan. Dbrand offered customers a refund for the original version, but it’s back with a new version of the Killswitch that doesn’t use any magnets.
Steam Deck OLED fixes the worst part of Valve’s handheld Windows is holding back the future of handheld gaming Why I refuse to buy a gaming laptop, even though I need one You can’t buy the old version anymore, but I wanted to point it out for a couple of reasons. If you buy one secondhand, make sure that you’re getting the newer version. In addition, I want to clarify that I’ve been testing the fixed version of the Killswitch. That’s important to point out because I’m getting ready to gush about how great the Killswitch actually is.
Let’s start with the case itself. If you look on Amazon, you’ll find a long list of rubber cases that are form-fitted for the Steam Deck. Short of the , these are all flimsy silicon shells that wrap around your Steam Deck. That’s not what the Killswitch is.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends It wraps around your Steam Deck, but the Killswitch is bolstered by a hardened backplate that you can’t move. It’s secure. Dbrand also is careful to only let the case touch the parts of the Steam Deck you actually hold, wrapping around the back, a little bit up the sides, and across the dips on the bottom corners of the device.
These grips are textured, and the plastic on the Steam Deck is not. You don’t really realize how much you’re actively holding onto the Steam Deck until you put the Killswitch on. Instead of gripping down on each side, the Steam Deck hangs from the natural pressure you apply with your palms. It feels more comfortable to hold, and without adding a ton of bulk. Dbrand says the Killswitch is as thin as a nickel, and based on my very scientific testing, it’s actually a little thinner.
That wouldn’t have been enough to sell me on the Killswitch, but it does much more. Dbrand offers a plastic cover that snaps over the top of the case, protecting your Steam Deck’s screen, joysticks, and buttons. As someone who travels quite a bit, that’s huge. The case Valve includes with the Steam Deck is massive, easily serving the role as your personal item on a plane, and thinner aftermarket options provide a loose fit and little to no protection.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends The Killswitch is not only smaller than the handful of Steam Deck cases I’ve tried — it’s also much more protective. I can throw on the plastic cover and toss my Steam Deck into a backpack without worrying about anything breaking. I’ve done exactly that probably a dozen times, and my Steam Deck has been just fine. Dbrand leaves a cutout for the USB-C port with the case on, too, so you can charge the Steam Deck even when it’s stowed.
So, the Killswitch is a rugged protective skin for your Steam Deck, but it has one more trick: the backplate mount. By default, Dbrand includes a kickstand to prop up the Steam Deck, but you can remove the kickstand with a turn and attach the universal mechanical mount.
This mount is a bit of plastic that can click into the kickstand mount, and it includes a strap that allows you to connect an external battery, USB-C hub, or anything else that can fit in the strap. I still think a Steam Deck with a power bank strapped on the back looks a bit silly, but there’s no denying this is a real way a lot of Steam Deck owners use their device. The mount takes the place of the kickstand normally, but Dbrand includes a patch of 3M adhesive so you can attach the mount alongside the kickstand if you want.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends The Killswitch is great, and it’s the first time I’ve used what feels like an essential accessory in the sea of options for the Steam Deck ( I’ve modded my Steam Deck plenty , but that’s a different matter). It’s also very expensive at $60 for the base kit. You can get a case for half of that or less.
Dbrand definitely makes the Killswitch feel worth it. The base kit includes the case, the kickstand, and one of Dbrand’s dozens of skins for the Steam Deck. These are $20 to $30 on their own, and Dbrand allows you to pick any of its classic or premium skins for the same price. My big issue is that the Killswitch doesn’t come with the cover on its own. That’s a $15 upcharge.
There are several accessories you can bundle with your Killswitch, including the travel cover, tempered glass, stick grips, the universal mount, and a dock adaptor kit since the Killswitch’s USB-C port is recessed with the case on. Fully tricked-out, you’re looking at $118.
My only real issue with the Killswitch is how expensive it is. I’d recommend the Travel Kit for most people, which is $75 and comes with the cover and stick grips on top of the base kit. Still, it’d be easier to recommend the Killswitch to everyone if you could mix and match all of the items available, allowing you to pick up the case and cover alone for a lower price, for example.
I still think the Killswitch is an essential Steam Deck accessory, though. I wish Dbrand sold accessories like the cover and dock adapter kit separately, but there just isn’t another Steam Deck case that comes close to it. It protects your Steam Deck in use and while traveling, and it provides several features that aren’t available on the Steam Deck alone. It’s not just a protective case — the Killswitch makes your Steam Deck more useful.
Editors' Recommendations What reviews didn’t say about the Steam Deck OLED I made an entire PC build for the price of one Nvidia GPU This underrated Nvidia GPU is still the one to buy 4K gaming monitors are getting cheaper, but I still won’t buy one You’ll have to wait a long time for a Steam Deck 2 Features PC Gaming Computing I'm not going to lie: There are a lot of great gaming laptops out there. There are so many options, in fact, that it's hard to narrow it down to a couple that truly stand out from the pack.
Even recognizing that, there are two main laptops I recommend when someone asks me directly which gaming laptop they should buy. That doesn't mean other gaming laptops are bad, but these two hit the budget and performance requirements that most people are looking for in a way few other laptops can match.
Lenovo Legion Pro 5 Computing AMD has said it's done with new GPU dies, but a filing with the European Economic Commission (EEC) suggests that Team Red could still launch graphics cards in its RX 7000 range.
The filing points to AMD releasing an RX 7600 XT sometime in the future, both in 12GB and 10GB variants. AMD's Scott Herkelman says the RDNA 3 lineup is "complete," so what gives? It comes down to the GPU dies.
Computing The SSD upgrade you've been waiting on for the Steam Deck and ROG Ally is here. Western Digital revealed its WD_Black SN770M, which is an M.2 2230 SSD that's built specifically for handheld gaming devices.
The new drive is available in three capacities: 500GB, 1TB, and the coveted 2TB size. It's tough to find M.2 2230 SSDs for the Steam Deck, and even tougher to find them at 2TB. Up to this point, popular options have included the Sabrent Rocket and Corsair MP600. Otherwise, you'd have to stalk retailers like Newegg and Amazon to find a good deal on a Micron drive repurposed from another device.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
