Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing News This Intel gaming handheld could give the Steam Deck a run for its money By Monica J. White Close Emdoor / Notebook Italia All of the most popular gaming handhelds, such as the Steam Deck or the Asus ROG Ally , are currently powered by AMD APUs. However, Intel Meteor Lake is about to change that narrative. Emdoor has just previewed its upcoming handheld with a Meteor Lake chip and Intel Arc 5 graphics inside, and it looks like AMD might have some serious competition on the horizon.
This is a new venture for both Emdoor, which has previously been known for mini PCs and tablets, and Intel, which hasn’t really participated in the recent boom for portable gaming PCs.
 The result of this cooperation looks like a handheld along the likes of the Ayaneo console we’ve already seen before. Thanks to a preview shared by Notebook Italia , we know more about its design and specs.
The console runs on Windows 11 and is powered by Intel Meteor Lake-H, also referred to as Core Ultra 100H, with a TDP range of 20W to 35W. This could potentially mean a performance boost over the Steam Deck, which maxes out at a 15W TDP. However, it could just be Intel being Intel with a higher TDP range, and we don’t know the exact power range of the device itself, only the CPU. In an idle state or within the user interface, the CPU is seen operating at around 5 watts, while the GPU actually hits above 3.0GHz.
Emdoor / Notebook Italia Emdoor is also serving up integrated Intel Arc 5 graphics. We’re not sure about the exact specification here, but it could have as many as eight Xe cores, which would make it the equivalent of the Intel Arc A380 in mobile form. The handheld is seen running God of War , which is one of the more demanding games of this generation, so that bodes well for the Arc 5.
Intel’s next-gen GPUs are its first real shot at being the best I tested Intel’s Core i5-14600K against its cheaper sibling. Don’t waste your money How Intel could use AI to tackle a massive issue in PC gaming This gaming device can also feature up to 32GB of LDDR5X memory and up to 2TB PCIe Gen 4 M.2 SSD storage, which, again, gives it an edge over several other popular solutions. The exact screen spec is unknown, but we do know that it has an 8-inch touchscreen with 1920 x 1200 resolution and a 16:10 aspect ratio. In terms of connectivity, there are two USB Type-C ports, one USB Type-A 2.0, and a 3.5mm headphone jack.
Emdoor / Notebook Italia Lastly, the device features a stand at the back that lets you use it in tablet mode. The button layout is pretty standard, although the stand kind of calls for a similar solution to Lenovo Legion Go’s detachable controllers, but that’s not included here.
It’s hard to speculate about the exact performance of Emdoor’s new device, but it’s going to be interesting to see how it compares to some of AMD’s solutions. The Z1 and Z1 Extreme chips have been a popular option for recent gaming handhelds. The vastly increased TDP could give Intel an edge here, but it might also be detrimental to battery life.
Editors' Recommendations Steam Deck OLED fixes the worst part of Valve’s handheld AMD is slowing down at the worst possible time It’s the end of an era for Intel Intel just admitted defeat Intel’s upcoming iGPU might destroy both Nvidia and Apple M2 Tech News Computing AMD's Ryzen 9 7945HX, the mobile flagship for this generation, was just spotted in some early benchmarks. The test results show that AMD might be really competitive in gaming laptops this year.
The CPU outpaced its last-gen equivalents by miles, and it kept up with Intel's best processors despite having far fewer cores.
Computing Intel has just accidentally revealed the full and official specifications of its upcoming Raptor Lake processors. The leak includes three of the most popular CPUs and confirms a lot of the previous rumors.
However, there is one change compared to the leaks we've seen so far, and that's the performance core boost clock. This is not a change for the better, though.
Computing Recent leaks have showcased the design of an upcoming Logitech handheld gaming device, which is set to be a competitor to popular products, including the Valve Steam Deck and the Nintendo Switch.
Industry informant Evan Blass aka @evleaks shared images of the device on Twitter, detailing that the gaming handheld would have a focus on Google Play games, which could suggest Android compatibility. Additionally, the device is expected to stream "games from cloud services such as Xbox Cloud Gaming and GeForce Now," according to Tom's Hardware.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
