Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Features What reviews didn’t say about the Steam Deck OLED By Jacob Roach Close Jacob Roach / Digital Trends The Steam Deck OLED is a complete refresh of the original model. It packs the same power under the hood, but Valve touched nearly every part of the OLED model to improve on an already stellar design. We have the device in our hands now, and it has a few notable changes that go beyond performance and specs.
The fan is new (and way better) Your old SSD should work Easier to open, but not to service Your old accessories will work The carrying case has a secret You know when it’s fully charged Our own Steam Deck OLED review is live, but we wanted to focus in on six unique aspects of the device you wouldn’t find in a typical review.
The fan is new (and way better) Jacob Roach / Digital Trends I’ll get this out of the way first because reviews have mentioned how different the Steam Deck OLED is internally. Basically everything is new inside, so this device is a lot more than a Steam Deck with an OLED screen strapped on the front. One particular area that Valve improved is the fan. Depending on what model of Steam Deck LCD you have, the fan in the OLED could either be a minor improvement or a complete game-changer.
Steam Deck OLED fixes the worst part of Valve’s handheld This is the one accessory every Steam Deck owner should buy You’ll have to wait a long time for a Steam Deck 2 Valve used two fan models for the Steam Deck LCD: one originally from Delta and eventually a different one from Huaying. If you’re like me and have an early model of the Steam Deck LCD, you probably have the Delta fan (you can check in the Deck’s settings without opening the device). This fan is extremely loud, with an annoying high-pitched whine when it ramps up. That’s a big reason why you can buy a replacement fan for the Steam Deck LCD.
The fan in the Steam Deck OLED is better, as it doesn’t get nearly as loud as either the Delta or Huaying fan. It’s especially noticeable compared to the Delta fan, though. If you’ve been sitting on a Steam Deck LCD and can’t stand the fan noise, the OLED model might be for you.
Your old SSD should work Jacob Roach / Digital Trends One of the easiest and most popular Steam Deck mods is replacing your SSD. The OLED model doesn’t call for an SSD upgrade as direly considering that it scales up to 1TB, but you can still get drives like the WD Black SN770M that go up to 2TB. The good news is that your old SSD will work without any issues.
Valve is still using a 2230 M.2 SSD, and the company tells me that you’ll be able to transfer your old SSD over once the Steam Deck OLED officially releases. That should mean you don’t need to do anything. Pop your old SSD over (assuming you know how to transfer it safely), and everything should show up on the Steam Deck OLED without issues.
I haven’t been able to confirm this myself, however. Valve says a software update arriving a day before release will add the ability to transfer your SSD over. I tried transferring over my WD Black SN770M from the Steam Deck LCD, and the OLED was caught in a loop of the startup animation. Hopefully Valve’s upcoming patch fixes that problem.
Easier to open, but not to service Jacob Roach / Digital Trends The Steam Deck OLED is almost identical to the LCD model on the outside, but it has one noticeable difference for tinkerers. Valve replaced the Phillips head screws on the back with Torx screws. These have a star-like pattern with six points, making them much easier to remove and much less likely to strip. Valve is also using the same size of screw for all eight of the back screws now, too. The Steam Deck LCD had two different sizes for the inner and outer screws.
It’s much easier to get open with these changes, assuming you’re willing to risk potentially damaging your Steam Deck (and voiding your warranty). Inside, however, Valve made one very strange change that makes actually servicing the device a little more difficult.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Both the Steam Deck LCD and OLED have a ribbon cable that runs the length of the device, connecting both sides of the controller. On the LCD, this ribbon cable is routed under the board that holds your SSD and the Wi-Fi chip, allowing you to quickly access them after removing the thermal shield. The Steam Deck OLED runs this cable on top of the thermal shield. Valve also secures the cable with adhesive on top of the thermal shield.
That means you’ll have to disconnect one side of the ribbon cable and carefully undo the adhesive to get to the SSD now. It’s not a big deal, and if you never open the Steam Deck yourself, you have nothing to worry about. It’s a little concerning for anyone looking to upgrade their storage, though. Ribbon cables are sensitive, and even a minor tear would render the device unusable.
Your old accessories will work Jacob Roach / Digital Trends The Steam Deck OLED is the exact same size as the LCD model, and it’s about 30 grams lighter. Even still, there was some concern when reviews hit that old accessories may not work with the OLED model. That’s not the case.
You can use any cases that work with the LCD model — I put on the Dbrand Killswitch immediately — and most accessories should work as well. The only exception are mods. It’s possible you can do some mods on the Steam Deck OLED with LCD parts, but proceed at your own risk. There are several minor changes internally, so some old modifications may not be compatible. For example, swapping the backplate with an aftermarket one won’t work due to the different screw lengths.
But the burning question I’ve seen centers around screen protectors. The Steam Deck OLED has a larger viewable screen, but the overall display is the same size. In other words, the bezels are thinner on the Steam Deck OLED, but the overall display size is the same. That means you can use screen protectors built for the Steam Deck LCD on the OLED model without any issues.
The carrying case has a secret Jacob Roach / Digital Trends A sleeper improvement of the Steam Deck OLED is the included carrying case — seriously. I love how protective the Steam Deck case is, but I hate how massive it makes the device in a backpack. That led me to buy a flimsy aftermarket case that’s smaller for my Steam Deck LCD, forgoing extensive protection in favor of better portability. Valve has solved that problem with the Steam Deck OLED.
Outside of some minor changes, the carrying case looks the same. The main differences are that the Steam Deck logo is orange instead of blue now, and there’s a Velcro strap in addition to the zipper. The big change is that you can remove the inner shell of the case for a much more portable Steam Deck package, even if that means giving up a little protection.
If you lift up under the zipper at the top of the case (near where the thumbsticks lay), you can undo a Velcro patch holding the inner shell in place. This pops out into a mold that’s form-fitted to the Steam Deck, complete with the zipper so you can keep it closed. Given that the outer shell has a Velcro strap on the outside, you can use that as a separate carrying case without the zipper, too. It’s a simple, ingenious design and a huge improvement over the original carrying case.
You know when it’s fully charged One minor change that’s worth highlighting is the new light that appears next to the charging port. The Steam Deck LCD has this light, too, which illuminates blue whenever the device is plugged in. The Steam Deck OLED is no different, but the light turns to solid green when the device is fully charged, which is something the original didn’t do. I’m not sure if this is a software improvement that can be backported to the Steam Deck LCD but something to note regardless.
Editors' Recommendations Half-Life gets a free update and Steam Deck verification for its birthday ‘Compact Mode’ can’t fix the Xbox app. Here’s what could I can’t get excited about AMD’s next version of FSR anymore WD’s new SSD is the Steam Deck upgrade you’ve been waiting for Steam Deck 2? This leak suggests Valve is working on new hardware Gaming Features PC Gaming Computing By nearly all objective measures, the ROG Ally is better than the Steam Deck. It has solid battery life, a nicer screen, more power, and Windows 11, allowing it to access a much wider library of games than the Steam Deck offers. After four months of using both devices, though, I'm fine keeping my Steam Deck.
That might surprise you, especially if you caught my ROG Ally review when I first took a look at the device nearly four months ago. I even tried replacing my desktop with the device on the strength of Asus' impressive XG Mobile. But after using the ROG Ally for just about every purpose possible, I've been picking up my Steam Deck to play games.
What you want, what you need Computing After product pages went live early, Valve has officially opened up orders for "certified refurbished" Steam Decks. All three capacities Valve offers are available to purchase, and there are some hefty discounts over list price: 64GB model -- $319 (down from $399) 256GB model -- $419 (down from $549) 512GB model -- $519 (down from $649) Computing There are only two apps that automatically open when I turn on my PC: Microsoft Teams and Steam. Steam, for many, is just a gateway to play games on PC, but it's a piece of software dense with features that go beyond tracking playtime and achievements.
I wanted to highlight some of the Steam features that I get the most mileage out of. Keep in mind that there are a ton of options in Steam, and this list barely scratches everything that the platform has to offer. These are just the features I think you should be taking advantage of because they make Steam much more than just a launcher for your games.
File transfer Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
