Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing News Steam Deck 2? This leak suggests Valve is working on new hardware By Monica J. White Close Jacob Roach / Digital Trends An exciting piece of gossip just dropped, and it might have something to do with the Steam Deck — or it could be something else entirely. We’re talking about a mysterious new device made by Valve that has just received radio certification from the South Korea National Radio Research Agency. Code-named “RC-V1V-1030,” the product is referred to as a “low-power wireless device.” What’s Valve up to now? The problem is that it could be nearly anything. Aside from a Steam Deck 2, or perhaps even just a refresh to the existing console, Valve has expressed interest in making a new virtual reality (VR) gaming headset to follow up on the Valve Index. Even an updated Steam Controller fits the description. The only thing to be learned from the certification is that the device uses 5GHz Wi-Fi, which could apply to all three of those potential products.
Valve’s Steam Deck is still fairly new, but technology tends to age quickly. Many companies got us used to yearly or biyearly release cycles. Does that mean this mysterious device could indeed be the next iteration of Steam Deck? Some might say that it’s too early for the handheld to receive all-new hardware, but a slightly more powerful version is not out of the question. Valve could release, for instance, a Steam Deck with an improved screen to match the recent competition from Lenovo , Ayaneo , and Asus.
A new Valve hardware device just received radio certification in South Korea Valve Index was 1007 Steam Deck was 1010 ??? is 1030 https://t.co/AfgKorlyFZ pic.twitter.com/ECJPhqxTsu &mdash; Brad Lynch (@SadlyItsBradley) September 7, 2023 A point in that favor is that Valve started selling refurbished Steam Decks recently, suggesting the company is moving through some backlog of returns.
Steam Deck OLED fixes the worst part of Valve’s handheld You’ll have to wait a long time for a Steam Deck 2 After four months with the ROG Ally, I’m going back to my Steam Deck A Steam Controller 2 would make a lot of sense, given that the first one was released in 2015 and has since been discontinued. However, an extra scoop from Phoronix (also shared by The Verge ) tells us that Valve has been making sneaky changes to the code of its Van Gogh APU. A new product family name was added, dubbed “Sephiroth,” followed by a product called “Galileo.” That makes the Steam Controller sound implausible. While it would be wireless and low-power, it wouldn’t have a Van Gogh APU inside.
A VR headset, however, would have its own chip — and Valve has made it clear that it believes the current APU found inside the Steam Deck would do well in a standalone gaming VR headset. The question is whether the APU would be powerful enough to handle VR titles. The chip does well enough within the Steam Deck, but handling VR is a whole different ballgame. Now, if Valve was to release a headset that works as a standalone, but can also be connected to a gaming PC , that could work.
It’s too early to say with any certainty what this product is going to be, but it very well might make it to market, given the certification. My money’s on a Steam Deck refresh that’s still not a whole new console — think Nintendo Switch and Nintendo Switch OLED.
 We’ll keep you posted if there are any new developments.
Editors' Recommendations What reviews didn’t say about the Steam Deck OLED This is the one accessory every Steam Deck owner should buy WD’s new SSD is the Steam Deck upgrade you’ve been waiting for With Lenovo’s Legion Go, do we finally have a Steam Deck killer? The Steam Deck and Nintendo Switch had a baby, and it’s Lenovo’s Legion Go News Tech News Computing Yet another player seems to be about to enter the gaming handheld market. Lenovo is reportedly working on its own competitor to the Steam Deck and the Asus ROG Ally. Now, it's pretty safe to assume that this device is more than just a rumor, all thanks to the high-quality renders of the Lenovo Legion Go that just emerged. It definitely looks like Lenovo may have taken inspiration not just from its direct competitors, but also from the Nintendo Switch.
As can be seen in the image above (courtesy of WindowsReport), the Lenovo Legion Go appears to be equipped with detachable controllers, which are very similar to the Joy-Cons used by the Nintendo Switch. It also comes with a stand in the back, implying that -- when combined with these removable "joy-cons" -- it could work well for co-op gaming on the go. At the very least, it seems like you will be able to set it down and play without needing to hold it in your hands the whole time.
Computing After product pages went live early, Valve has officially opened up orders for "certified refurbished" Steam Decks. All three capacities Valve offers are available to purchase, and there are some hefty discounts over list price: 64GB model -- $319 (down from $399) 256GB model -- $419 (down from $549) 512GB model -- $519 (down from $649) Computing There are only two apps that automatically open when I turn on my PC: Microsoft Teams and Steam. Steam, for many, is just a gateway to play games on PC, but it's a piece of software dense with features that go beyond tracking playtime and achievements.
I wanted to highlight some of the Steam features that I get the most mileage out of. Keep in mind that there are a ton of options in Steam, and this list barely scratches everything that the platform has to offer. These are just the features I think you should be taking advantage of because they make Steam much more than just a launcher for your games.
File transfer Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
