Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Features 600Hz displays are coming. Here’s why they’re not as silly as you might think By Jon Martindale Close High refresh rate gaming has been the focus of much of the display industry in recent years, from 4K 120Hz TVs becoming the norm, to companies pushing even to 500Hz to really stretch the limits of what high refresh rate actually means.
Diminishing returns for refresh rate We need more OLED But what’s the point in all of those added refreshes, if in general gamers can’t tell much difference between 120Hz and 240Hz, let alone up to 600Hz, which panel makers say is now coming in 2023? What’s the point of these ridiculous refresh rates? The same as always: It can make you a better gamer — albeit slightly.
This 500Hz monitor is the world’s fastest gaming display Diminishing returns for refresh rate Image used with permission by copyright holder The traditional wisdom for a high refresh rate display of any kind is that it improves your gaming experience through more fluid animations. It also reduces screen tearing (without the need for frame-synching technologies like G-Sync and FreeSync ). The big reason typically touted for these kinds of monitors , though, is that they improve your competitive gaming ability. Although they have some effect on their own, combining a high refresh rate with a high frame rate contributes to a reduction in input lag, making you several, or even 10s of milliseconds faster than your opponents on lower refresh rate displays.
There are diminishing returns, however. A 60Hz display will have a minimum input lag of just under 17ms, but a 120Hz display cuts that in half to around 8 milliseconds. A 240Hz gaming monitor slashes it again to 4.16ms, so 360Hz, 500Hz, and even 600Hz are only really shaving a millisecond or two off of your minimum input lag — other factors notwithstanding. That might matter in a high-stakes game between some of the world’s best players, but even then it’s not going to make a huge difference.
Higher refresh rates bring measurably improved accuracy, even if gamers can’t notice the difference visually.
But that very measurable metric isn’t the only thing that higher refresh rate displays help with. Greater refresh rates also give you more up-to-date information than your opponent. That provides both a measurable few-milliseconds advantage that compounds your improved input lag, but it also makes you more accurate. If your display refreshes that bit faster than your opponents’, showing you where they are in a more granular fashion. That gives you a better chance of firing at where they are right then and there, rather than where the display is telling you they were a few milliseconds ago.
That has a local effect too. The smoothing of animations through more frequent refreshes might be great for added immersion, but it’s also super important for accurate mouse movements. As LTT and other testers have shown, gamers can have a measurable improvement in their accuracy from higher refresh rate displays, even if they don’t notice it themselves. While that effect will likely diminish as we reach higher refresh rates, the fact that the extra, more accurate, more recent visual information can affect your play without you even knowing it, suggests that there’s still some gold to be mined in ultra-high refresh rates.
Age-old gaming wisdom suggests that if you can, having a frame rate that’s double that of your refresh rate is the ideal scenario. It ensures that there’s a frame ready to serve on your display as soon as it’s ready to refresh, and that gives you a big buffer zone so that even in busier parts of a map, or when something visually spectacular happens on screen, your frame rate remains above refresh rate. This also means you don’t need to use frame synching technologies (which would negate your super-high-fps advantage) like FreeSync and G-Sync, as screen tearing at such high frame rates would be almost unnoticeable.
Dan Baker/Digital Trends This is a generalization that won’t apply to every game — some work best at specific frame rates — but just because refresh rates are getting higher, shouldn’t mean we stop chasing higher frame rates too.
That might seem like a lofty goal with a 600Hz monitor but think again. Slap together a top gaming PC with an RTX 3090, or even a new-gen 4090, and you’ll easily see 700-800+ frames per second (fps) in games like CS: GO , or Rainbow Six: Siege — high paced games that have often been the vanguard of this kind of high-Hz gaming. You don’t even need to sacrifice resolution.
The Tech Chaps made an RTX 4090 gaming PC and managed over 500 fps in Overwatch 2 at 8K! That might not quite be the 1,200 fps you’d need to truly double the refresh rate of that almost-unbelievably laptop refresh rate, but it’s not far off. With next-generation hardware in 2023, 1,000 + fps might become the norm in top-tier machines playing some of the older esports that scale well with higher-performing hardware.
We need more OLED Digital Trends None of this is to evangelize the newly announced 600Hz gaming laptop from BoE. It’s probably redundant because most gaming laptop displays, even if high refresh rate, have a relatively high response time too. That results in ghosting, effectively eliminating the advantage of such a high refresh rate display. But breaking the back of that 500Hz barrier means it will be done again, and potentially on larger, more-capable desktop displays. Maybe even from some of the more established display manufacturers who won’t make the same image quality sacrifices to get there.
What we really need is OLED technology to reach these kinds of heady refresh rates. The pixel response time of OLED is so much faster than that of LCD, just gaming on OLED alone can improve your input lag more than switching to some higher refresh rate displays. If we combined the two? Who knows how good it could get.
We have an early idea, though, with the Alienware AW3423DW giving us a 175Hz QD-OLED design and many reviewers have noted it feels like a far higher refresh rate display because of how responsive it is. Corsair is promising to hit 240Hz on an OLED with its Xeneon Flex , but we’ll have to see how that turns out.
1440p monitors up to 900Hz? Yup, it’s possible.
It should be said that with any of these absolutely cutting-edge, flagship gaming displays, the actual measurable impact for most gamers over much more affordable, reasonable designs is minimal. Their price tags alone should make it clear that these are not designed for mass adoption.
But for those who can afford them? They’re going to be worth considering. If you can legitimately say you might have a shot at becoming a professional gamer, every advantage helps. It won’t make you better, but making it so that your brain doesn’t have to account for additional input lag, letting it accurately lead an enemy before firing without having to anticipate where they might be between frames, is a real advantage, and will give you a better approximation of the LAN gaming you’ll do at competitions without the added latency of online gaming.
AMD’s new graphics cards have DisplayPort 2.1 tech too, enabling monitors at even 1440p to hit up to 900Hz, so this may not be the last we hear of record-breaking refresh rates. Watch this space.
Editors' Recommendations Gaming Chromebooks with up to 144Hz panels have arrived, but they’re not what you think Nvidia claims 1440p 360Hz monitors as new standard for esports Features PC Gaming Computing Lenovo is probably one of the best-known laptop makers, especially since they have an incredibly wide variety of them to choose from. That also means they have an excellent selection of gaming laptops, so you can hone in on something that fits your budget. That's especially the case with the ongoing early Black Friday deals that are seeing laptops being cut down in price across the board. That said, Lenovo's selection of gaming laptops is too wide for us to include all their active deals here, so we've selected some of our favorites for both AMD and Intel CPUs. Also, if you're not sure of where to start, you should check out our list of best Lenovo laptops for some good options.
Best Lenovo Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals (AMD) Lenovo has a wider selection of AMD gaming laptops, which is great if you want to go with something AMD-powered. Unfortunately, there aren't any good deals on Lenovo laptops with both an AMD CPU and GPU, but the selection below is wide enough to pick something that fits your needs a bit better. And, if you want something with an RTX 4090 on a budget, then the AMD version is probably the cheapest for Lenovo.
Computing Printers are complicated machines featuring a mix of plastics, metals, electronics, and components, some of which are potentially flagged as hazardous waste. In 2023, it's more important than ever to be kind to the planet, and there are several environmentally safe ways to dispose of a printer.
Even the best printers in the world can reach the end of their life after several years if ink or toner is no longer available. A well-loved printer can suffer from accumulated wear and tear or damage from a catastrophic power surge that's too expensive to repair.
Computing It's Black Friday, which means it is time to give expensive tech products and fun, but expensive, toys a second look. The right Black Friday deals are there to take these categories of products down in price. Where these categories of expensive tech and cool toys collide is the Meta Quest 2, a VR headset, and sure enough, it has a good sale going on over at Amazon right now. Normally $300, its price has dropped by $51 down to just $249, one of the best VR headset Black Friday deals we've seen. The really good news? This deal is here now, so you don't have to wait to buy it like you will with the rest of your post Thanksgiving shopping. In fact, if you tap the button below and buy now, and with a little shipping luck, you might have it by Thanksgiving to play with your family.
Why you should buy the Meta Quest 2 The Meta Quest 2, which dominated Steam last year, is a VR headset that gives a full 360 field of view, allows you to experience 3D positional audio, and has over 500 compatible titles between gaming, fitness, and other experiences. If you're a Twitch viewer, you may recognize it from streamers playing Meta Quest 2 games like Beat Saber or the somewhat ironically humorous Among Us VR. It refreshes at 120Hz and gives each eye a view of 1832 x 1920p.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
