Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Split Screen in Windows 11 Windows 11 Requirements Get Windows 11 for Free Screenshot on Windows 11 Uninstall Windows 11 Android Apps on Windows 11 Home Computing Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best widgets on Windows 11 By Arif Bacchus Close One of the cool features of Windows 11 is its widgets. With widgets, you can peek at some of the things that matter to you most via a small space at the side of your desktop, without opening a dedicated app associated with that content, or even going on your phone. You can summon it at any time with Windows Key and W on your keyboard, or hover to the left side of the Taskbar, and click on the weather icon.
From there, new widgets can be added with the Add widgets button. You’ll even be able to add multiple widgets or drag widgets around, too.
Currently, Microsoft doesn’t support third-party widgets in Windows 11 as it did in Windows Vista or Windows 7. However, there are still some great official Microsoft widgets you can use, and there’s also a third-party alternative to widgets, too.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
Here are some of the best widgets on Windows 11 you can download right now.
Best Widgets on Windows 11 Weather widget Image used with permission by copyright holder At the top of our list is the weather widget in Windows 11. This is one of the most customizable widgets, as it can automatically use your location, or allow you to enter a custom location to show you the weather. This can be done with the three-dot Customize widget option. There are various sizes, including, Small , Medium , and Large.
Each size will show you more weather stats. Small is a compact card with current weather conditions only. The medium size, meanwhile, will show you a five-day forecast on top of existing conditions. Finally, the large will show a line graph with precipitation probabilities and hourly temperatures. All three sizes make this a great way to peek at the weather without having to go to your web browser or open an app on your phone.
Sports widget Image used with permission by copyright holder Being a sports fan means always wanting to keep in touch with your favorite team’s scores. Well, there’s a widget for that in Windows 11, and it is the appropriately named sports widget. Just like the weather widgets, this widget has a lot of customization options and sizes. You can choose various sports, too.
Some of the sports supported by this widget include MLB, NHL, NBA, NCAA, and other major sports leagues. You can add one of these leagues, or a specific team in the league to the widget by going to the three-dot customize widget option. Once you add a league, you’ll see the schedule for the league or team. The Small , Medium , and Large options will add more results to your widget.
Outlook calendar widget Image used with permission by copyright holder With the work-from-home lifestyle becoming more popular than ever, you might be having more virtual meetings. That means you’ll need a calendar to keep in touch with meeting appointments. Well, in Windows 11, there’s the Outlook widget for that. When added, it shows you the current month, as well as any events planned for your day. It also will let you create an event directly from the widget, linking you out to your web browser. The various sizes will add more preview days of the week to your widget, so play around and check it out! OneDrive Photos widgets Image used with permission by copyright holder Last on our list of best Windows 11 widgets is the OneDrive Photos widgets. This widget, as named, will surface some of the photos from your OneDrive account, and quickly link you out to the OneDrive web experience to see more. It’s a handy way to see your favorite photos from years past, in one central hub. Unlike the others on our list so far, there are only two sizes, medium and small. So, keep that in mind.
Adding third-party widgets Image used with permission by copyright holder So far, everything in our list has been the official widgets that are supported by Microsoft through the widgets feature in Windows 11. Yet, if you want to expand your options a bit, you can also add third-party widgets to other areas of Windows 11, like the desktop.
There are many great apps that can do this, and the apps bring back the true look and widgets experience you might be familiar with from Windows Vista or Windows 7, where widgets surface on the right side of your desktop space.
At the top of our suggestions is the free Widget Launcher App on Windows 11. This app can put a CPU monitor, sticky notes, or conversion widget on your desktop. The color and transparency of these widgets can all be customized, too.
Other third-party apps that can add widgets to Windows 11 include ClocX , which is a clock widget, Crypto Price Widget , which can let you track cryptocurrencies on your desktop, as well as Desktop Ticker , which lets you add an RSS feed to your desktop as a scrollable ticker. Just be warned, these are largely legacy apps for older versions of Windows, so they might not work right on Windows 11.
Editors' Recommendations 11 Best Buy Black Friday laptop deals you can’t afford to miss today Best HP laptop deals: Get a Windows laptop for $199 The best all-in-one computers for 2023 Best Surface Laptop and Surface Pro deals: Prices from just $500 Great for school: This 15-inch Windows 11 laptop is on sale for $199 Best Products Microsoft Microsoft Windows Windows 11 Computing It has been over 40 years since the first computer mouse shipped, and since then, we’ve learned to cut the cables. Wireless mice are a dime a dozen and are much more common now, but only a select few make our list of the best wireless mice. It doesn’t matter if you’re shopping on a budget, focused on gaming, or have ergonomic needs — there’s a wireless mouse for you.
We’ve rounded up the top wireless mice available in 2023, from a large trackball mouse like the Kensington Expert to an inexpensive portable powerhouse like the Microsoft Mobile Mouse. Our top pick, however, is the Logitech MX Master 3S. It’s comfortable, has excellent battery life, and comes with simultaneous multi-device support.
Computing A tablet is a great way to go about your daily computing routines, and right now you can land a deal on a good one. The Microsoft Surface Pro 7+ is going for just $700 at Best Buy, which makes for a savings of $230 from its regular price of $930. It even comes with a free Type Cover and one free month of Xbox Game Pass Ultimate, which offers even more savings. Free shipping is included and in-store pickup is available in most locations.
Why you should buy the Microsoft Surface Pro 7+ Whether you’re looking to take home a computing device that competes with the best tablets, or you’re looking for an alternative to the best 2-in-1 laptops, the Microsoft Surface Pro 7+ should be a top consideration. While Microsoft’s newest option, the Surface Pro 9, is meant to take on the Apple iPad Pro, the Surface Pro 7+ is meant for tablet users looking for some great features on a budget. With an Intel i3 processor, 8GB of RAM, and a 128GB solid state drive, the Surface Pro 7+ is a great value option. All of these combine to provide a responsive, speedy experience, and to provide plenty of storage space for all of your favorite games, apps, and digital content.
Computing The PDF file format has great support for text and video, as well as an efficient file size, making it a great format for all kinds of documents and data. It’s also excellent for preserving the quality and formatting of a document.
Adobe Acrobat is perhaps the most well-known PDF editor, but there are other options to consider. Having access to a PDF editor opens the possibility of editing document texts, adding images, filling out forms, and converting your PDF files to other formats. A PDF editor is a useful tool if you work with this format regularly.
Our guide to the best PDF editors will help you choose the right editor for your needs.
Adobe Acrobat Pro DC The best PDF editor overall Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
