Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Split Screen in Windows 11 Windows 11 Requirements Get Windows 11 for Free Screenshot on Windows 11 Uninstall Windows 11 Android Apps on Windows 11 Home Computing News PC gamers are finally starting to upgrade to Windows 11 By Jacob Roach Close Steam’s monthly hardware survey is out, and it shows a rising tide for Windows 11. Nearly 20% of users have now upgraded to the new operating system, despite the fact that PCs overall are still hanging onto older Windows versions.
The survey shows that 19.66% of users are now running Windows 11 , a 2.22% increase from last month. That may seem like a small change, but the Windows 11 user base on Steam has nearly doubled since the start of the year. In December, only 10.55% of users had upgraded to the new OS.
Alienware The majority of those users didn’t come from Windows 10, it seems. Between March and April, Windows 10 only dropped 0.97%, while Windows 7 dropped a surprising 1.25%. That comes after the older OS gained some momentum at the beginning of the year, climbing up to 4.29% in March.
Windows 11 has slowly been gaining momentum, following a problematic launch due to a lack of messaging from Microsoft and the steep system requirements. Part of the problem came from TPM, which is still causing some issues on custom-built PCs that have upgraded to Windows 11.
I fell in love with this adorable mini gaming PC Windows 11 might finally reverse course on preinstalled applications AMD’s FSR 3 will finally get a chance to shine in Starfield Linux also saw a boost this month, now representing 1.14% of all users on Steam. That’s not a huge share, but it’s the highest percentage the open-source OS has ever enjoyed. It doesn’t come as too much of a surprise, though, as Valve’s Proton software for Linux has seen a boon in support following the release of the Steam Deck.
Outside of the OS battle, the hardware survey revealed a regression back to quad-core CPUs on desktop. Last month, six-core processors overtook quad-cores for the first time ever. It seems most users upgraded to one of the best gaming processors instead of downgrading, though. Six-core CPUs lost 1.16% of the share, but quad-cores only gained 0.21%.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends The launch of the AMD Ryzen 7 5800X3D may have played a role in the change, as eight-core CPUs saw a 0.2% increase this month. On top of that, AMD stole back 0.9% of the market share from Intel, which itself saw a massive boost in representation following the launch of 12th-gen Alder Lake processors.
In graphics cards , multiple AMD RX 6000 cards finally showed up on the charts. The RX 6900 XT, RX 6600 XT , and RX 6600 finally have some data, even if they only share 0.6% of the entire survey. These cards haven’t shown up in the survey at all prior to this point, signaling gamers’ preference for Nvidia this generation.
The addition of AMD’s RDNA 2-based GPUs wasn’t enough to dethrone the Nvidia GTX 1060 as the most popular GPU on Steam. It has maintained the leading position for years now, despite losing some popularity (1.03%) this month. As for what will replace it, the GTX 1650 is gaining some steam, rising by 0.4% in total GPU share.
Steam releases its hardware survey for the previous month on the first Monday of the new month. Instead of blindly gathering data, Valve randomly asks a large sample of users to participate, which you can opt into if you’re asked.
Editors' Recommendations Upgrade your PC or start from scratch? Here’s our definitive guide on the question What reviews didn’t say about the Steam Deck OLED Steam Deck OLED fixes the worst part of Valve’s handheld ‘Compact Mode’ can’t fix the Xbox app. Here’s what could Alan Wake 2 is proof that more PC games need a potato mode Microsoft Microsoft Windows PC Gaming Tech News Windows 11 Computing Hyte is challenging the status quo once again. The company, which quickly made it to the top of the list of best PC cases with its Y60, has a crazy new concept called the Y70 Touch. It's a PC case that has a built-in touchscreen, and although it's clearly a premium chassis choice, it's much more attainable than you might expect.
At $360, the Hyte Y70 Touch isn't just a premium case built exclusively for show floors. It's a real product, and although it's much more expensive than most PC cases, it's not out of the question for a high-end build.
Computing We've known for months that Alan Wake 2 will be one of the most demanding games on PC, but new details show just how taxing the upcoming title from developer Remedy will actually be. According to a now-deleted tweet from a Remedy employee, somewhere around 23% of PC players won't be able to play the game.
To be clear, the employee didn't say that number explicitly. In response to the outcry over the Alan Wake 2 system requirements, the employee shared that only cards with mesh shaders are officially supported, meaning any Nvidia 10-series or AMD RX 5000-series GPUs or older aren't officially supported.
Computing I've used most of the handheld gaming PCs that have released this year, but I always go back to my Steam Deck. It's not the most powerful, it has some quirks, and I still struggle with a frustrating bug that can drain the battery in minutes. But it's still the best handheld gaming PC you can buy, and that's due in large part to the fact that it doesn't run on Windows like other handhelds.
It's not that I don't like Windows. As a PC hardware nerd, I'm well aware of both the benefits and idiosyncrasies of PC gaming. Things don't always work the way you expect them to, and that's just part of the process to get the best gaming experience possible. When it comes to this evolving form factor of handheld gaming PCs, however, those issues are amplified and pushed to their breaking point.
We've been here before Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
