Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Split Screen in Windows 11 Windows 11 Requirements Get Windows 11 for Free Screenshot on Windows 11 Uninstall Windows 11 Android Apps on Windows 11 Home Computing Guides How to downgrade from Windows 11 to Windows 10 By Arif Bacchus Close Windows 11 brings a fresh new look and several new features that make Windows feel more modern. But be it the bugs or missing features , you might find yourself missing your old life, especially when you directly compare Windows 11 and Windows 10.
How to downgrade from Windows 11 to Windows 10 How to downgrade from Windows 11 past 10 days Difficulty Duration What You Need A Windows 10 PC Microsoft makes it simple enough to revert directly through the Windows 11 settings page. That’s because, upon upgrade from Windows 10, Windows 11 actually stores a copy of Windows 10 on your PC for 10 days so you can go back to it. Do keep in mind that if you go back to Windows 10 from Windows 11 , you might have to reinstall some apps and programs. Anything you saved on your PC while Windows 11 also won’t carry over back to Windows 10, either.
Image used with permission by copyright holder How to downgrade from Windows 11 to Windows 10 The first part of our guide also only applies if it has been 10 days or fewer since you upgraded to Windows 11. If it’s been the past 10 days, then we have some advice for you in the next section of our article. This all might sound scary, but don’t worry. This is what our guide is for.
Step 1: To begin the process of downgrading Windows 11 to Windows 10, you’ll want to head into Windows 11’s settings page. Hit Windows Key and I on your keyboard while in any app, or on your desktop.
Step 2: After that, click down to Windows Update in the sidebar. This is where you’ll want to be for our next few steps. You might notice that Windows Update is home to everything relating to software, device updates, scheduling, or even joining the Windows Insider program. You don’t need to think about those for now, as the focus will just be on Update History in the next step.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Windows 11 will soon harness your GPU for generative AI What does printer spooling mean, and how to fix it on Windows and Mac ‘Compact Mode’ can’t fix the Xbox app. Here’s what could Step 3: Next up, you’ll want to click Update History in the middle of your screen. You might need to scroll down to see it. Once there, scroll down past the list of installed updates to get to Recovery Options.
Going back to Windows 10 involves using the previously mentioned backup that Windows 11 generated and Recovery Options will be the home for this. Again, keep in mind that you’ll only see this if it is within 10 days since you upgraded to Windows 11.
 After 10 days, the option disappears, and you’ll need to see another option at the end of our guide.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 4: Once you click the Go Back button, Microsoft will prompt you as to why you’ve decided to go back to Windows 10. You can pick any one of the options on your screen, or type your own answer. Your answer helps in Windows 11’s development process. Once filled out, click Next at the bottom.
Windows 11 will then ask you if you want to check for updates. These might help fix the problems you’re having (like the performance issues with AMD GPUs,) so try to give it a shot. If that doesn’t work, you can come back following the previous steps, and choose No, Thanks.
Microsoft will warn you of the things relating to data that we mentioned at the top of the piece, and you can accept by clicking Next. Also, keep in mind you’ll need to remember your password to sign in to Windows 10, so don’t forget it. Click Next again to confirm.
Step 5: After you click Next a few times, Windows 11 will give you the Go Back to Windows 10 button. Click this, and Windows 11 will do its magic. Your PC will roll back to Windows 10 automatically. Depending on the speed of your PC, it should take less than 5 minutes on average. Your PC will restart about two times, and once it does, you’ll be taken right back to your Windows 10 desktop.
Image used with permission by copyright holder How to downgrade from Windows 11 past 10 days If it’s been more than 10 days since you upgraded to Windows 11, then the methods we mentioned above will not work. To go back to Windows 10, you’ll have to do what’s known as a “clean install” of the Windows operating system. This involves erasing everything off your PC, and starting from fresh, so be sure to back up your files.
The easiest way to do this is to visit Microsoft’s Windows 10 download page on your Windows 11 PC and look for the Create Windows 10 Installation Media.
 Download the tool, open it, and then follow the steps on the screen. You’ll want to make sure you choose the option to Upgrade This PC Now.
Follow all of the prompts on your screen and Windows 10 will install, putting your PC back in time to when it was new.
Editors' Recommendations Windows is just an application now Windows 11 might finally reverse course on preinstalled applications How to downgrade from macOS Sonoma to an older version How to use a blue light filter on your PC or Mac A major Windows update just launched. Here’s what’s new How-To Guides Microsoft Microsoft Windows Windows 10 Windows 11 Windows Guides Computing Knowing what hardware makes up your PC is a useful step in figuring out whether you need to upgrade your processor, your memory, or maybe your graphics card. But how do you find out your PC specs in Windows 11? There are a few ways to do it and we'll cover them all here. Here's how to find out what your PC is made of.
Computing Your password is your key to Windows 11, as it protects your files and your important information. There are some cases, however, where you might want to remove a login password in Windows.
One such case is when you’re sharing a PC with someone and don’t necessarily have anything that’s private on your system. Though we don’t recommend it, removing the password can also mean faster logins to your PC.
Computing What appears to have been a slow burn in OS adoption for Windows 11 might actually be a very promising transition to Microsoft's current system.
The Windows 11 operating system is now actively running on over 400 million devices and is on track to hit half a billion installs by early 2024, according to a report from Windows Central.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
