Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Split Screen in Windows 11 Windows 11 Requirements Get Windows 11 for Free Screenshot on Windows 11 Uninstall Windows 11 Android Apps on Windows 11 Home Computing Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? How to dual boot Windows 10 and Windows 11 By Arif Bacchus Close Dual-booting Windows editions is a tradition that goes quite far back. It lets you experience new Windows versions and old Windows versions together on the same hard drive of a PC or laptop.
How to dual boot Windows 10 and Windows 11 Step 1: Download Windows 11 Step 2: Prepare to partition your main Windows 10 hard drive Step 3: Shrink your Windows volume Step 4: Create a new volume Step 5: Turn off fast startup and Bitlocker encryption Step 6: Boot your PC from your Windows 11 Bootable drive Step 7: Install Windows 11 Step 8: Dual boot! Dual booting is a fun way to try Windows 11 without deleting Windows 10. You do need a separate license and account for both Windows operating systems to dual-boot legally without violating Microsoft’s terms of service.
Here’s how to dual boot Windows 10 and Windows 11 at the same time.
Windows 11 will soon harness your GPU for generative AI What does printer spooling mean, and how to fix it on Windows and Mac How to use a blue light filter on your PC or Mac How to dual boot Windows 10 and Windows 11 To dual booth both Windows 10 and Windows 11, you’ll need a couple of things. Again, you’ll have to hold a valid Windows 10 license and a valid Windows 11 license. Each license can only be used once. It’s likely that Windows 10 will pull an original equipment manufacturer (OEM) license from your PC, and Windows 11 will ask you for a product key on setup.
Additionally, since Windows 11 now mandates you use a Microsoft Account as part of the setup in the Home Edition , you’ll need to have a separate Microsoft account for both operating systems. You can try using the same one, but separate accounts would be the best option. This helps avoid confusion with any potential app downloads and other app licenses tied to your accounts. You can always create a second Microsoft Account for free , just to try Windows 11 , and then remove it later after you set things up.
As part of dual booting, you’ll also need to be comfortable using disk management tools, as well as have a USB drive that’s at least 16 GB in size and an internet connection to download Windows 11. You’ll also have to meet the requirements for Windows 11.
 If your PC isn’t compatible, then you can’t dual boot without registry hacks.
Step 1: Download Windows 11 Image used with permission by copyright holder To get started, you’ll need to download Windows 11. You can do this by going to Microsoft’s website.
 Choose the Create Windows 11 Installation Media option and download the tool. Launch it and choose to Use the recommended options for this PC.
Then, choose USB flash drive and click Next.
 Make sure your USB drive is plugged in. Choose your drive from the list, and click Next.
 Your PC will create a bootable Windows 11 drive.
Step 2: Prepare to partition your main Windows 10 hard drive Image used with permission by copyright holder In this second step, you’ll have to head into Disk Management in Windows 10. Search for it and open it using the Start Menu. The option you want will be Create and format hard disk partitions.
 Once you find it, open it up and look for the OS: C drive.
 You should know this is your OS drive since it is partitioned as NTFS. Right-click on the drive, and choose Shrink Volume.
Step 3: Shrink your Windows volume Image used with permission by copyright holder After you click Shrink Volume , wait for Windows to query your disk. You’ll then be able to shrink the drive down in MB.
Keep in mind that 1 GB is equal to 1,000 MB. So Windows 11 needs 64,000 MB minimum. We suggest shrinking your drive close to that amount. In our example, we shrink to 100,000 MB. Accept the shrink with the Shrink button.
Step 4: Create a new volume Image used with permission by copyright holder Shrinking your volume will take a while and it might look like your PC has frozen, but don’t worry. You’ll know when it’s done when you see a new gray-colored space that says Unallocated.
 Once you see this, right-click the empty space and choose New Simple Volume.
Click Next and assign it a new drive letter (we’re using D ). You also can label the volume. We choose to name ours Windows 11. Leave everything as is and be sure it looks like it does in our photo above. Click Finish.
Step 5: Turn off fast startup and Bitlocker encryption Image used with permission by copyright holder After you create a new volume, you’ll need to turn off both Fast Startup and Bitlocker encryption in Windows 10. This lets you get into your PC’s BIOS and lets your PC boot up between the two different operating systems.
To do this, search Power in the Windows 11 Start Menu, and choose Power and Sleep Settings.
Then, scroll down to Additional Power Settings.
 Pick the choose what the power button does option. Then, you’ll have to click Change settings that are currently unavailable and toggle the checkbox for Fast startup to off. End by clicking Save changes.
For Bitlocker, search for Bitlocker in the Start Menu and then choose Manage Bitlocker.
 In Windows 10 Home, you’ll need to turn off device encryption.
Step 6: Boot your PC from your Windows 11 Bootable drive Image used with permission by copyright holder Next, you’ll need to boot your PC from the bootable drive you just created. Usually, you can do this by pressing the F12 key on your laptop or keyboard once you turn the power on and choosing the name of your USB drive from the list of available options. Specific directions vary based on laptop makers. Here are some instructions from HP , Dell , Lenovo.
Step 7: Install Windows 11 Image used with permission by copyright holder Once you boot into the Windows 11 installer, click Next, and then Install Now.
 Setup will Start, and you should choose the Custom option. If you’re not seeing any drives, head into your PC’s BIOS and set the SATA controller to compatibility/IDE/Standard Mode for the drives to appear. Once that checks out, choose the partition that you’ve previously sized and labeled as Windows 11 and click Next.
 Windows will then install.
Step 8: Dual boot! Image used with permission by copyright holder Once everything is done installing, Windows will now prompt you to choose an operating system. Choose either Windows 10 or Windows 11 from the list each time you want to boot your PC. You also can change date and time settings here, too.
Make sure that you activate Windows 11 with a new product key first, however. Do this by searching for Activation Settings and then Change Product Key.
 Enter in a new product key, so that Windows is linked to a key, rather than your Microsoft Account.
And make sure that you disable Fast Startup, too. Just search for Edit Power Plan and then choose Power Options , just as you did in Windows 10 in Step 5.
This ensures your Windows 10 install doesn’t get deactivated. Otherwise, your experience might be limited. At any time, on the dual boot menu, you can choose your operating system.
Editors' Recommendations Windows is just an application now Windows 11 might finally reverse course on preinstalled applications ‘Compact Mode’ can’t fix the Xbox app. Here’s what could A major Windows update just launched. Here’s what’s new How to find your computer specs on Windows 11 How-To How-To Guides Microsoft Microsoft Windows Windows 10 Windows 11 Windows Guides Computing Your password is your key to Windows 11, as it protects your files and your important information. There are some cases, however, where you might want to remove a login password in Windows.
One such case is when you’re sharing a PC with someone and don’t necessarily have anything that’s private on your system. Though we don’t recommend it, removing the password can also mean faster logins to your PC.
Computing What appears to have been a slow burn in OS adoption for Windows 11 might actually be a very promising transition to Microsoft's current system.
The Windows 11 operating system is now actively running on over 400 million devices and is on track to hit half a billion installs by early 2024, according to a report from Windows Central.
Computing Thanks to the massive success of Apple Silicon, Macs have become increasingly tempting. Plenty of folks are heading back to the Mac for the first time in years, and in doing so, making the dramatic switch from Windows 11 to macOS.
When it comes to these operating systems, though, they're not equal across the board. And in the end, here are the five things that keep me coming back to Windows 11.
Device support Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
