Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Split Screen in Windows 11 Windows 11 Requirements Get Windows 11 for Free Screenshot on Windows 11 Uninstall Windows 11 Android Apps on Windows 11 Home Computing Guides How to get Windows 11 for free By Jon Martindale Close Microsoft is still keen for everyone to upgrade to Windows 11 if they can. And it's not just Microsoft.
Updating to Windows 11 is well worth it.
 If you have a Windows 10 PC or laptop already, then you can upgrade to Windows 11 for free very easily, but you can also get it for free by buying a new PC, or even building a new computer yourself.
Check that your PC is compatible Upgrade to Windows 11 for free using Windows Update Update to Windows 11 for free using the Installation Assistant Update to Windows 11 for free using the Media Creation Tool Get Windows 11 for 'free' when you buy a new PC Whatever your situation, here's how to upgrade to Windows 11 for free.
Difficulty Duration What You Need A Windows 10 key, or Windows 10 PC or laptop Internet access A USB drive with at least 8GB of free space (optional) Check that your PC is compatible Before you try to upgrade your PC to Windows 11 for free, make sure that it is compatible. You'll need a PC that supports Trusted Platform Module (TPM) 2.0 and has the Secure Boot option in your BIOS. It must also meet some basic hardware requirements.
To find out whether your PC is capable of running Windows 11, search for PC Health Check in Windows search, and run the corresponding application, or check Microsoft's Windows 11 specs page and cross-reference it with your system. If you're not sure what hardware you have, follow these steps to check your PC specs.
Upgrade to Windows 11 for free using Windows Update If you have a Windows 10 PC or laptop that's ready for Windows 11, you can upgrade to Windows 11 for free just by running the update tool.
Step 1: Search for Windows Update in the Windows search bar and select the relevant result.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 2: If your PC is fully up to date, there's a good chance it will already be pushing the Windows 11 update on you. All you have to do is select the blue Download and Install button to get started. Then just follow the on-screen instructions to complete your Windows 11 installation.
Image used with permission by copyright holder What does printer spooling mean, and how to fix it on Windows and Mac QuickBooks Free Trial: Get a month of accounting for free ExpressVPN Free Trial: Get a 30-day money-back guarantee Image used with permission by copyright holder Update to Windows 11 for free using the Installation Assistant If Windows Update isn't giving you a quick option to upgrade to Windows 11, you can use the Windows 11 Installation Assistant.
Step 1: Visit the Windows 11 download website and look for the Windows 11 Installation Assistant.
Select the blue Download now button.
Step 2: When it's finished downloading, run the Windows11InstallationAssistant.exe and give administrator approval, if requested.
Step 3: Select Accept and install to accept the terms and conditions, then begin the Windows 11 update process.
Step 4: The installation will then proceed without much input from you. It will download the Windows 11 installation media, then run the update. This could take up to 30 minutes, so you may need to wait, but when it's complete, you should have a free update to Windows 11 installed.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Update to Windows 11 for free using the Media Creation Tool If you are starting a new PC build, or want to install Windows 11 on a new drive for your existing Windows 10 PC, the Windows Update tool and Installation Assistant won't work so well. What you can use instead, is the Media Creation Tool.
Step 1: Head to Microsoft's Windows 11 upgrade page and under the heading Create Windows 11 Installation Media, select the blue Download Now button. This will download mediacreationtool.exe file to your PC.
Step 2: Launch the Media Creation Tool like you would any other program, and give administrator approval, if requested.
Step 3: Accept the Microsoft terms and conditions, then choose your language and the version of Windows 11 you want to install, if necessary. Otherwise, leave the default recommended options. Select Next when you're ready to proceed.
Step 4: Find a USB drive with at least 8GB of free space and plug it into your PC or laptop. Then select the USB Flash Drive option in the Media Creation Tool setup process. Select Next.
Alternatively, if you want to virtually mount the Windows 11 installation media, you can select ISO file and follow the on-screen instructions to create it for later mounting.
Step 5: Select the USB drive you want to use for the installation. Then, when ready to setup the drive, select Next.
Wait for the setup process to complete.
Step 6: Once the installation media is created, you can reboot your PC and boot to the USB drive to begin upgrading to Windows 11. Follow our guide on how to install Windows 11 for tips on the installation process and, if prompted, input your Windows 10 key to activate.
Get Windows 11 for 'free' when you buy a new PC If you're buying a new PC, you're almost certainly going to get it with Windows 11 included, so if you don't want to buy a Windows license and don't have an upgradeable PC, this might be the best way. Alternatively, you can look for Windows 10 PCs and use their valid key to update to Windows 11 for free using the above methods.
Unfortunately, you can't update from Windows 8 or Windows 7 straight to Windows 11, but if you have an older system with a valid key, you can always upgrade to Windows 10 first. Follow these steps on downloading Windows 10 for free , then see if you can update to Windows 11 for free afterwards.
Editors' Recommendations Windows 11 might finally reverse course on preinstalled applications MasterClass Free Trial: Get a 30-day money-back guarantee Adobe Photoshop Free Trial: Get a month of editing for free Microsoft Word Free Trial: Get a month of service for free ABCMouse Free Trial: Get your first month free How-To Guides Microsoft Microsoft Windows Windows 10 Windows 11 Windows Guides Computing Researchers are continually releasing studies on the potential harm of blue light. When you stare at a screen all day and into the evening, it can affect your sleep and disrupt your body's natural rhythms. For these reasons, blue light filters are incredibly important.
Deals Keeping your devices safe, whether browsing online or not, should be paramount. It's not just because of an expanding sea of dangers but also the potential for more localized issues -- viruses, malware, and beyond. Nowadays, we have a lot invested in our digital worlds and a lot to protect when we sit down to work at our digital devices. We’re more susceptible to hacking, identity theft, and data collection than ever before, and with these intrusions can come a lot of headaches. Keeping tabs on the best antivirus software is always a good idea, and a Norton Antivirus free trial is a good way to explore one of the best options available. Not only does Norton provide some of the best identity theft protection, but it’s also one of the best antivirus apps for the iPhone. So, that makes a Norton Antivirus free trial the perfect way to start exploring a more secure digital existence -- you can decide how much you like the service without spending much.
Is there a Norton Antivirus free trial? There is a Norton Antivirus free trial, and it’s a pretty impressive offering. With a Norton Antivirus free trial, you’ll get full access to one of four plans that Norton offers. There is a Plus Plan, a Standard Plan, a Deluxe Plan, and the fully loaded Select Plan. Each plan increases the antivirus features offered and the number of devices covered, and each plan increases in price. A Norton Antivirus free trial is good for 30 days, and you’ll need to create an account and provide a credit card for Norton to keep on file.
Bear in mind that if you want to protect your online browsing habits, you'll want to pair Norton with a VPN. A VPN masks your public IP address and assigns you a new, remote one while the VPN is active. The CyberGhost free trial, ExpressVPN free trial, and the NordVPN free trial are some great options there. So, you can test them out before committing to a long-term subscription.
Computing Microsoft has just announced the latest update to Windows 11, which brings the operating system up to version 23H2. This is a cumulative update that comes with some of the most exciting features already announced in September, including Copilot, and brings some changes to Teams, among other things. Here's what's new and how to get it on your own PC.
When Microsoft first announced Copilot during its September event, many thought that it'd be available right away -- and it was, but not widely. Now, with the 23H2 update, Copilot should be downloaded and toggled on by default, alongside everything else that was announced during the Surface event. Some new things are on the way, too.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
