Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Split Screen in Windows 11 Windows 11 Requirements Get Windows 11 for Free Screenshot on Windows 11 Uninstall Windows 11 Android Apps on Windows 11 Home Computing Guides How to download and install Windows 11 on your PC: All methods, explained By Arif Bacchus Close It's been quite a while since Windows 11 first launched, but Microsoft is still offering the new operating system as a free update for Windows 10 users. Windows 11 is no small release, either, as there are tons of new features in the operating system that make it worth downloading when compared to Windows 10.
 But if you're stuck and don't know how to download Windows 11, we have your back.
How to install from Windows Update How to install through the Installation Assistant How to install through Windows Insider Program How to clean install with Windows 11 Installation Media How to clean install with Windows 11 ISO file manually (not recommended) Difficulty Duration What You Need A Windows 10 PC, access to the internet, optional USB drive There are currently five major ways to download and install Windows 11.
 The best way is to wait to get it free via Windows Update on your PC. With the second way, you can force your PC to download it via the Installation Assistant. The third way involves using Windows Insider Program. These three ways involve no loss of files or data.
You also can try the media creation tool as the fourth way to get Windows 11, or try using a Windows 11 ISO file and manually clean install the OS on your PC as the fifth way. These two methods involve a clean install, so you'll end up losing files. They're the last resort.
Just keep in mind that to get Windows 11, you'll need to meet the system requirements.
 If you don't, there are ways you can tweak your installation to get it working, but doing so can mean your PC won't get updates from Microsoft. We advise checking the PC Health Check app to confirm your system works with Windows 11 before proceeding.
Image used with permission by copyright holder How to install from Windows Update The simplest way to get Windows 11 is via Windows Update. You'll know that it's ready for your PC because you'll see messaging for it in Windows Update. Follow these instructions to proceed with the installation. You won't lose any data or files on your PC with this option.
Step 1: Head over to Settings > Update & security.
From there, click Check for updates.
Step 2: You should notice a prompt for Upgrade to Windows 11 is ready, and it's free.
 Click the blue Download and install button and agree to the terms with the Accept and install button.
How to use a blue light filter on your PC or Mac How to remove a login password on Windows 11 This simple keyboard shortcut could save you when installing Windows 11 Step 3: You should then see the Upgrade to Windows 11 appear under Windows Update, with a percentage and download status. Wait for it to complete.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 4: When finished, you'll get a prompt to restart your PC. It'll show up in a blue box. Choose the Restart now option. Your PC will proceed with Windows 11 installation and will restart a few times. When finished, you'll be taken to the Windows 11 desktop! Image used with permission by copyright holder How to install through the Installation Assistant If you're not seeing Windows 11 in Windows Update, you can use the Windows 11 Installation Assistant instead. This manually will upgrade you from Windows 10 to the new OS. Again, using this method, you'll have to ensure your PC meets Microsoft's minimum specs. You won't lose any files, either. Here's how.
Step 1: Visit Microsoft's Windows 11 download website.
 Look at the top for the Windows 11 Installation Assistant option and click the blue Download now button.
Step 2: Wait for the tool to download. When complete, launch it. Click Yes when prompted.
Step 3: In the pop-up box, you'll have to choose Accept and install.
From here on out, it will be a three-step process. Wait for Windows 11 to download as part of the first step. It could take a while depending on your connection speed. You might be prompted to agree to the Microsoft terms and service.
Step 4: In the second step, Windows 11 will verify the integrity of your download. It should take a few seconds.
Step 5: In the third step, you'll get a prompt about Windows 11 installing in the background. Let it install and wait it out. Depending on the speed of your PC, it could take a while — usually 30 minutes, tops.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 6: Once the third phase is finished, click the Restart now button. You'll be prompted that you are about to be signed out. Wait while your PC restarts and installs Windows 11. It could take up to 30 minutes or an hour based on the speed and age of your PC and your CPU.
Step 7: While Windows 11 is installing, you'll see Working on updates on your screen. A percentage will indicate the progress. Your PC will restart a few times, so be patient. Once complete, you'll be taken to the sign-in page, and then the Windows 11 desktop.
Image used with permission by copyright holder How to install through Windows Insider Program If the above two methods don't work for you, then you can install Windows 11 through the Windows Insider Program. This is the last-resort effort, as the Windows Insider Program will install unstable, still in preview versions of Windows 11 on your PC.
Step 1: Head over to Settings > Update & security > Windows Insider Program.
 Then, link your Microsoft Account.
If it’s your first experience with the Windows Insider Program, you’ll notice that there are multiple channels: Dev, beta, and release preview. Currently, Windows 11 is being tested on the Beta and Dev Chanel. Pick one that's right for you.
Step 2: The beta channel is one of the most stable experiences to test Windows 11. If you opt to join this channel, you won’t experience as many bugs and issues. Keep in mind, though, that beta channel releases only happen every few weeks.
If you want the latest and greatest versions of Windows 11 from Microsoft, you’ll need to join the dev channel, which has weekly releases and all the new features. The Release Preview , meanwhile, is where you can preview the upcoming Windows 10 update.
Step 3: Once you choose a respected channel, confirm your choice. You'll be prompted to sign in with a Microsoft Account, if you weren't already. And your PC will restart.
Step 4: Once your PC restarts, head to Head over to Settings > Update & security.
From there, check again for updates. You'll see Windows 11 listed. Choose Download and install and wait while the OS installs on your device! Image used with permission by copyright holder How to clean install with Windows 11 Installation Media Another way to install Windows 11 is with Installation Media. This is a way to create a bootable USB drive that you can use to clean install Windows 11 on your current Windows 10 PC or on another device. Doing so will remove all of your files, so we advise against this method. If you're aware of this risk, you can get to this option by going to the Windows 11 Download Page.
 From there, choose the Create Windows 11 Installation Media option. Then, follow the steps below.
Step 1: Agree to the terms and choose Accept.
 Let the Setup tool run, and choose Use the recommended options for this PC.
Click Next , and choose USB flash drive.
Step 2: Choose your USB flash drive from the list and then click Next.
 You'll be prompted and Windows 11 will download to it. Once finished, the installer will switch to Creating Windows 11 Installation media.
 You'll know when it's finished, as you'll get a prompt that the drive is ready.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 3: Once your USB drive is ready, close the installer with the Finish button. Keep the USB drive plugged into your PC.
Step 4: Head back to the Windows 10 settings app, and choose Update & security.
 Then choose Recovery on the left side. Under Advanced startup, choose the Restart now option.
Step 5: In the pop-up prompt, choose Use a device.
Your USB drive should appear listed. Choose it, and Windows will restart to your USB drive and Windows 11 installer. If you don't see this option, you'll need to head into your BIOS or UEFI to manually boot from the USB drive. Usually, you can do this by pressing F12 on boot as soon as you turn on your PC. Contact your PC maker for more information on this or consult online guides.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 6: Once in the Windows 11 installer, select a language, and click Next.
Pick the version of Windows 11 that matches the version of Windows 10 on your PC. and click Next.
Step 7: Choose the Custom option and choose the drive to install Windows 11 on. You might have to click the Format button to erase all your files on the drive. When done, select the drive again and click Next.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 8: Windows 11 will install to your PC, and you can sit back. You'll then be taken to the out-of-box experience, and will be prompted to set up your PC again.
Image used with permission by copyright holder How to clean install with Windows 11 ISO file manually (not recommended) The final and most extreme way of installing Windows 11 involves using an ISO file. This is for methods where the steps mentioned in the section above do not work. Keep in mind, though, that using this file means you'll have to erase everything on your PC and clean install Windows 11.
 So make sure you have everything backed up. This ISO option is also how you can install Windows 11 on a virtual machine. We have a separate guide on that.
Step 1: First, visit the Windows 11 download page , and choose the Download Windows 11 Disk Image option. Choose Windows 11 multi-edition ISO from the list, and then the blue Download button. Pick English as your option, followed by the blue Confirm button.
Step 2: Once the file is downloaded, you'll need to download some extra software to continue with a clean install on Windows 11. We suggest installing Rufus, a great way to create a bootable Windows 11 installation drive.
Step 3: Download Rufus from the website.
 Run the file and select Yes.
Then, under where it says Device , plug in an empty USB drive and choose it. Make sure the device is bigger than 8GB.
Step 4: Under Boot selection , choose Disk or ISO image.
 Then, click the Select button. Navigate to where you saved the Windows 11 ISO file and click Open.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 5: Be sure to choose either Standard Windows 11 installation , or Extended Windows 11 installation.
 The Standard Windows 11 Installation is best if your PC meets specs. If it doesn't, you can try the extended option to bypass Microsoft's restrictions. Leave everything else as is, and then click the Start button to create the drive.
Step 6: Wait a while and the USB drive will be ready. Close Rufus when complete, and reboot your PC to install Windows 11 using the steps we mentioned in the previous section.
We hope our guide was helpful for you. Now that you're up and running with Windows 11, you might want to check out our other how-to guides. We've covered plenty of topics related to the new Microsoft operating system.
Editors' Recommendations Windows 11 might finally reverse course on preinstalled applications How to find your computer specs on Windows 11 Surprise: Windows 11 is doing much better than we thought The best Windows 11 themes Here is how you can uninstall Windows 11 How-To Guides Microsoft Microsoft Windows Windows 11 Windows Guides Computing In the consumer space, Windows 11 adoption has been ticking along at a reasonable pace. For businesses, however, the OS may have reached its limit, as businesses struggle to upgrade machines to meet the minimum requirements.
IT asset management group Lansweeper has observed that the adoption of Windows 11 now stands at 8.35% as of October 2023, a slight jump from the 5.74% seen in September 2022. However, having conducted research on approximately 33 million Windows devices in the enterprise sector, Lansweeper has concluded that it is largely device incompatibility that is stalling Windows 11 updates on a grand scale.
Computing If you're fed up with us reminding you to use a password manager to remember all your passwords (that you definitely aren't reusing), passkeys could be a great alternative to boosting your security. They let you ditch passwords entirely for a brand of two-factor-authentication that's more secure and more convenient than unique passwords have ever been.
Passkeys are a way to use your phone or another device as a way to securely login to different sites and services. It's something you've been able to use on your phone for a while now, but Passkeys are now a part of Windows 11's 22H2 build (and its upcoming 23H2), and you can start using them right now.
Computing Clearing the printer queue on a Windows PC or a Mac is a simple task that can help get rid of old documents that didn’t print for some reason. Those pending documents in the queue cause problems even if you've refilled paper and taken care of other printer issues.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
