Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Split Screen in Windows 11 Windows 11 Requirements Get Windows 11 for Free Screenshot on Windows 11 Uninstall Windows 11 Android Apps on Windows 11 Home Computing Guides How to take a screenshot on Windows 11 By Jon Martindale Close Knowing how to take a screenshot on Windows 11 is really useful for sharing information, troubleshooting problems, or just grabbing a snapshot of something in your favorite game or TV show. But whatever you want to take a screenshot for, there are a few different ways to do it in Windows 11.
How to take a screenshot in Windows 11 with Print Screen How to take a screenshot in Windows 11 using the Snipping tool How to take a screenshot in Windows 11 using the Xbox Game Bar Difficulty Duration What You Need Windows 11 PC or laptop Many of them will be familiar to anyone who knows how to take a screenshot in Windows 10 , but there are some new ones too.
How to take a screenshot in Windows 11 with Print Screen The quickest and easiest way to take a no-frills screenshot in Windows 11 is to use its built-in keyboard shortcut.
Step 1: Press Windows key > Print Screen.
 Note, if your Print Screen key has multiple functions (most common on laptops ) then you may also need to press the FN key simultaneously.
Step 2: The screen should dim slightly to show you that a screenshot has been taken. It will automatically save as a fullscreen PNG image of whatever is on the screen at the time.
Windows 11 will soon harness your GPU for generative AI Windows 11 might finally reverse course on preinstalled applications ‘Compact Mode’ can’t fix the Xbox app. Here’s what could Step 3: Navigate to This PC > Pictures > Screenshots to locate your screenshot(s).
Image used with permission by copyright holder How to take a screenshot in Windows 11 using the Snipping tool The Snipping Tool is a Windows 10 carryover that features a versatile method for taking screenshots in Windows 11.
Step 1: Press Shift > Windows Key > S to launch the Snipping tool.
Step 2: The box that appears at the top of the window gives you a few different options: Rectangle Snip : Select this, then use your mouse to draw a rectangular section of the screen you want to screenshot.
Freeform Snip : Select this, then use your mouse to draw any kind of shape to take a screenshot.
Window Snip : Select this, then select the particular window on screen that you want to take a screenshot of.
Fullscreen Snip : Select this to take a screenshot of your entire screen as it appears without the Snipping tool overlay.
Step 3: When you've taken your screenshot, a notification will appear in the bottom right letting you immediately select and edit the image, if you want. Alternatively, you can find the image in This PC > Pictures > Screenshots.
Image used with permission by copyright holder How to take a screenshot in Windows 11 using the Xbox Game Bar Even if you don't use the Xbox Game Bar for any of its gaming-focused features, it is still a useful tool for taking screenshots in Windows 11.
Step 1: Press the Windows key + G keys to bring up the Xbox Game Bar.
Step 2: Click the 8Screenshot (Camera) icon8 in the top-left within the Capture window. Alternatively, you can press Windows key > Alt > Print Screen.
Step 3: You'll be able to find the image in This PC > Videos > Captures.
Editors' Recommendations Windows is just an application now 4 easy ways to take a screenshot on a Windows PC What does printer spooling mean, and how to fix it on Windows and Mac A major Windows update just launched. Here’s what’s new How to find your computer specs on Windows 11 How-To Guides Microsoft Microsoft Windows Windows 11 Windows Guides Computing Your password is your key to Windows 11, as it protects your files and your important information. There are some cases, however, where you might want to remove a login password in Windows.
One such case is when you’re sharing a PC with someone and don’t necessarily have anything that’s private on your system. Though we don’t recommend it, removing the password can also mean faster logins to your PC.
Computing What appears to have been a slow burn in OS adoption for Windows 11 might actually be a very promising transition to Microsoft's current system.
The Windows 11 operating system is now actively running on over 400 million devices and is on track to hit half a billion installs by early 2024, according to a report from Windows Central.
Computing Thanks to the massive success of Apple Silicon, Macs have become increasingly tempting. Plenty of folks are heading back to the Mac for the first time in years, and in doing so, making the dramatic switch from Windows 11 to macOS.
When it comes to these operating systems, though, they're not equal across the board. And in the end, here are the five things that keep me coming back to Windows 11.
Device support Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
