Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Record a Microsoft Teams Meeting Leave a Team on Microsoft Teams Keep Microsoft Teams Status Active Join a Microsoft Teams Meeting Create a Team in Microsoft Teams Home Computing Guides How to use Microsoft Teams By Nathan Drescher Close Learning how to use Microsoft Teams properly can save you heaps of time. It has a built-in whiteboard, video chat functionality, team organization tools, and integrates well with the Microsoft 365 productivity cloud and its suite of useful applications.
What is Microsoft Teams? How to install Microsoft Teams on PC How to set up Teams for individuals How to set up Teams for organizations How to chat in Teams How to use Channels in Teams How to share files in Teams How to use a whiteboard in Teams How to schedule events in Teams How to make video calls in Teams How to share your screen in Teams How to check your messages and notifications on Teams How to change your settings on Teams How to change your profile picture on Teams How to change your privacy settings on Teams How to choose a theme on Teams How to send an SMS with Teams Difficulty Duration What You Need Windows, Mac, Linux, Android , iPhone, tablet device, or a Chromium-based browser Internet connection Domain name (for organizations) With both educational and business interactions increasingly moving online, it is more crucial than ever to effectively communicate and organize with large groups to achieve common goals, impart knowledge, and create a productive environment for work and learning. Read on to find out more about how to use Microsoft Teams.
Image used with permission by copyright holder What is Microsoft Teams? Created by Microsoft as a collaboration app, Teams combines the best features from Microsoft Classroom and Skype for Business to create a program capable of file storage, app integration, videoconferencing, instant messaging, VoIP calling, and granular organization of team and collaborators.
Teams has more than 270 million users around the world and is the most popular collaboration app with businesses. However, it's not only a business app. More than 1 million people use Teams as their primary messaging app as well.
The app itself is packed with functionality. For starters, people can silo different parts of their lives into independent Teams. For example, a person could have personal chats and work chats independent of each other. These are the nuts and bolts of Microsoft Teams.
Each Team has one-on-one chats (called Chats), group chats (called Teams Channels), file sharing, group whiteboards, and video calling with up to 100 people. There's also the ability to schedule events directly in the app so everybody involved receives it in their calendars, and users can set reminders in the app.
Finally, there's the ability to customize profile pictures for both individuals and entire groups, and users can set their availability status directly in the app so others know if they're around or not.
Image used with permission by copyright holder How to install Microsoft Teams on PC Microsoft Teams is free to use. However, if you want to unlock full functionality with seamless syncing between OneDrive, Calendar, To Do, and other Microsoft apps, you'll want a Microsoft 365 account. For mobile devices, simply head to the App Store, search for " Microsoft Teams ," and install the app.
Most modern Windows PCs come with Teams pre-installed. However, if your computer doesn't have it, the process is straightforward.
Step 1: Download Teams from Microsoft.
Step 2: Run the downloaded file and follow the on-screen instructions to install the application.
Call of Duty Modern Warfare 3: best settings, benchmarks, and more How to add and use desktop widgets in macOS Sonoma Surface Pro 9 is over $500 off in early Black Friday deal Step 3: Sign in with your Microsoft account when Teams opens.
Image used with permission by copyright holder How to set up Teams for individuals Teams is a fantastic communication tool for everyday use. Not only can you make video calls with your loved ones, but you can also text them via SMS directly from Teams! Setting it up is straightforward and should only take a minute or two.
Step 1: In Windows, open the Start menu and select Teams.
 On Mac, open the Launchpad and click on Teams.
Step 2: Sign in with your Microsoft account.
Image used with permission by copyright holder How to set up Teams for organizations Businesses and organizations can set up Teams just as easily as individuals. The difference is that the organization will need to invite members to join its Team. This process is simple enough, but each person on the team will need to install and set up Teams on their end.
Organizations will also need an active Microsoft 365 Business or Enterprise subscription to work, and they'll need a valid domain name. Another thing to note is the full Business or Enterprise versions of Teams are not available for academic institutions.
Once all team members have Teams installed, setting up Teams for everybody to use is simple. Here's how: Step 1: Open Teams from the Start menu or Launchpad (on Mac).
Step 2: Select Sign up for Teams.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 3: Enter your organization's identity and press Next.
Step 4: Enter your details, then select Set up Teams.
Step 5: Invite your team to join your organization.
Microsoft will email you a link you can use to invite your team members, or you can click on the Teams icon on the left-side menu and select Invite people at the bottom.
Image used with permission by copyright holder How to chat in Teams Chatting is arguably Teams' strongest suit. Whether as an individual user or as part of an organization, chats keep you connected.
Microsoft Teams has the same chatting capabilities you would expect to find in other chat apps such as WhatsApp and iMessage. It is also a strong competitor to Slack when it comes to team-based chats. You'll find the app fairly straightforward to use.
Step 1: Select Chat from the left-side menu bar.
Step 2: Select New Chat from the little box with a pen above it. You'll find this in the Chat window to the right of the menu bar.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 3: Type the name of the person or people with whom you wish to chat in the "to" field.
Teams will automatically suggest people in your organization or your contact list.
Step 4: Write your message in the Type new message field.
You can easily find all your chats in the Chat menu. Teams will keep them the moment you begin a new chat.
Image used with permission by copyright holder How to use Channels in Teams Channels are sections of your Team where you can keep everything organized by subject, projects, etc. However, they are called Teams, not Channels. Yet when it comes to usage, Microsoft calls them Channels, and the overall organization is the "Team." It's confusing, we know.
Channels (or Teams) are big group chats where entire teams of people (there it is again) can message each other, share files, join video conferences, and more. Admins can set roles within the team, such as Team Owner and Team Member. They can also designate moderators to manage content on the channel ... err, team.
Each team automatically comes with a "general" channel, but if you're running a business, you'll probably want to break that down into more focused silos. Here's how.
Step 1: Click on the Teams icon in the left-side menu bar.
Step 2: Click Join or create a Team at the bottom of the screen.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 3: Choose whether to create a team From scratch or From a Group or Team to add any existing group or team contacts.
Step 4: Select Private , Public , or Org-wide for your Team's privacy level, then enter a name and description.
Step 5: Select Create Team to finish the process.
How to share files in Teams One of Microsoft Teams standout features is the ability to share files large and small with your entire organization. OneDrive and Sharepoint can be embedded right into the application, giving you quick access to your cloud files on every device.
Step 1: From a chat window, select the Attach icon resembling a paperclip and click either OneDrive or Upload from my computer.
 You can also copy and paste the sharing URL into the compose-message box.
Step 2: Sharing files is exactly the same for channels, but the Attach options also include Recent and Browse Teams and Channels.
Step 3: After the file finishes attaching, select Send to share your file.
Image used with permission by copyright holder How to use a whiteboard in Teams Whiteboard access is one of the newest additions to Microsoft Teams, and it turns the platform into a productivity powerhouse for businesses and organizations. You can brainstorm, make diagrams, and doodle mindlessly while everyone watches.
The Whiteboard function is only available during a team meeting. However, admins will first need to enable the ability.
Step 1: (Admins only) Visit the Microsoft Teams Admin Center - opens in a web page.
Step 2: Click Settings.
Step 3: Select Services and add-ins.
Step 4: Scroll down to Whiteboard.
Step 5: Toggle Turn Whiteboard on or off for entire organization to "on." Step 6: Head to the Teams icon in the left-side menu bar of the Teams app.
Step 7: Find the Team (aka Channel) with whom you want to share a whiteboard.
Step 8: Click on the *Meet now * icon on the top-right corner of the Team chat (it looks like a film camera).
Step 9: Name your meeting and press Join now.
Step 10: Once in the meeting, select Share.
Step 11: In the Whiteboard section, select Microsoft Whiteboard.
Image used with permission by copyright holder How to schedule events in Teams You can easily schedule meetings and live events in Teams. and every member will be notified. Once they accept, the meeting or event will appear in their Microsoft 365 calendar. You can do this with recurring events as well.
Step 1: Go to the Teams tab in the left-side menu bar.
Step 2: Choose the team with whom you want to have a meeting.
Step 3: Click on Schedule a meeting under the chat box.
Step 4: Select Calendar on the left side of the meeting pop-up.
Step 5: Click on New meeting.
Step 6: Select the date and time for the meeting from the pop-up.
Step 7: Select Save.
Step 8: Alternatively, you can use the Scheduling Assistant to help you find the best time for a meeting with all the team members.
Scheduling Assistant is what Microsoft has down with Cortana, their now-defunct virtual assistant. Select this option, and the assistant will show you the free and busy times of your team members.
How to make video calls in Teams Teams allows you to make one-on-one video calls or conduct group video calls with up to 100 participants. Everyone can chat, share files, and work on a whiteboard during these calls.
Step 1: From your chat list, select the New chat button.
Step 2: Enter the name or names of your contacts into the To field at the top of the chat.
Step 3: Select the Video call button resembling a camera to start a call.
Image used with permission by copyright holder How to share your screen in Teams You can share your screen with team members during a Teams video call. The process is easy. Here's how.
Step 1: While in a Teams meeting, click Share in the center of the screen, then select the window, document, or screen to share.
Step 2: When finished, click Stop sharing in the bottom right.
Note that a red border appears around any content that you are actively sharing.
Image used with permission by copyright holder How to check your messages and notifications on Teams The Activity feed serves as a one-stop shop for viewing all messages, whether you joined or were given control of a team, replies to your posts as well as posts you've liked, suggested posts, and trending posts. You will receive a notification in both the Chat menu and Activity feed when you receive a message, but other notifications can be found only under Activities.
Any DMs sent between individuals or groups will remain private, whereas sending a message in a channel will cause a notification to appear in your Activity feed. Channel messages can also help you send preview cards that detail activities on the Teams app.
How to change your settings on Teams While Teams offers a plethora of options including language, keyboard shortcuts, and app settings, here's how to set up the three most important settings. Namely, how to change your profile picture, configure your privacy settings, and choose a theme.
Step 1: Select your Account icon in the top-right corner.
Step 2: Click Settings.
Image used with permission by copyright holder How to change your profile picture on Teams Step 1: From the Settings menu, select Edit profile.
Step 2: Select the Upload picture button to open a File Upload window.
Step 3: Select your new image, and click the Open button to upload your photo.
Step 4: Select Save.
Image used with permission by copyright holder How to change your privacy settings on Teams Select the Security tab to adjust your security settings, including Do Not Disturb, priority access, call-blocking, read receipts and survey participation.
Note that if you change the read receipt settings, you will have to close all chats for the settings to take hold.
Image used with permission by copyright holder How to choose a theme on Teams Step 1: From the Teams app, select your Account icon in the upper-right corner to open the main menu and click Settings.
Step 2: Select the General tab and decide between Default , Dark , and High Contrast.
Image used with permission by copyright holder How to send an SMS with Teams The great thing about Microsoft Teams is its ability to send SMS messages to non-Teams users. This function is a perk to using a personal Teams account that businesses don't have.
Step 1: Click on the Chat tab in left-side menu.
Step 2: Select New Chat.
Step 3: Enter your recipient's phone number in the To: field.
Step 4: Enter a name for your contact. They won't see the name you assign — this is solely for your use.
Step 5: Type a message and send it.
Teams is jam-packed with functionality for organizations and individuals. Microsoft has clearly separated it from competitors like Slack by adding a host of features, from Whiteboard to SMS messaging. It's no wonder Teams is one of the most used business applications in the world today.
Editors' Recommendations Microsoft Black Friday deals: Save on Surface, Office, Xbox, and more How to insert a checkbox in Word ChatGPT lets you build your own chatbot without coding. Here’s how Microsoft Surface Pro 7+ with Type Cover price slashed by $330 ‘Compact Mode’ can’t fix the Xbox app. Here’s what could Business Communication Software How-To Guides Microsoft Microsoft Teams Deals The titular office suite, and one that just about everyone knows, called Microsoft Office, includes the renowned word processor Microsoft Word. But with the recent versions of its software, Microsoft has migrated to the cloud. Microsoft Word is a versatile and capable word processor that's essential for typing and editing written documents, among other things (and there are a lot of things you probably didn't know you could do in Microsoft Word). Microsoft Office is paid software, however, Word is included, and for some, the cost may seem high even with some of the best Microsoft Office deals floating around. So, if you're wondering if there's a Microsoft Word free trial or any other way to get it for free, read on to find out.
Is there a Microsoft Word free trial? Microsoft Word is actually part of the company's wider Office app suite. Now known simply as Microsoft 365 (formerly Microsoft Office), Microsoft's enterprise software is available in a number of different packages that are now subscription-based; the company has retired the older bundles that were available for a one-time payment. That means if you want a Microsoft Word free trial, you'll need to sign up for the Microsoft 365 trial, which includes the Word app along with Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook, Teams, OneDrive, and Editor.
Computing Researchers are continually releasing studies on the potential harm of blue light. When you stare at a screen all day and into the evening, it can affect your sleep and disrupt your body's natural rhythms. For these reasons, blue light filters are incredibly important.
Computing During Apple's "Scary Fast" event, one feature caught my eye unlike anything else: Dynamic Caching. Probably like most people watching the presentation, I had one reaction: "How does memory allocation increase performance?" Apple based its debut of the new M3 chip around a "cornerstone" feature it calls Dynamic Caching for the GPU. Apple's simplified explanation doesn't make it clear exactly what Dynamic Caching does, much less how it improves performance of the GPU on the M3.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
