Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Split Screen in Windows 11 Windows 11 Requirements Get Windows 11 for Free Screenshot on Windows 11 Uninstall Windows 11 Android Apps on Windows 11 Home Computing Guides How to use Microsoft Copilot in Teams, Powerpoint, Excel, and more By Jon Martindale Close The Windows 11 Copilot AI is Microsoft's big push to bring modern artificial intelligence to its flagship operating system — and it goes far beyond the early integrations of ChatGPT through Bing Chat.
 This isn't your granddad's Clippy, it's a whole new way of augmenting Windows with truly smart functions.
Microsoft Copilot release date How to use Windows Copilot Copilot for Teams, Powerpoint, Excel, Word, and more Is Microsoft Copilot free? Here's how to use the Microsoft Copilot AI in Windows 11 to make your life easier and more efficient.
Difficulty Duration What You Need Windows 11 desktop PC or laptop with build 23493 or newer At the time of writing, the builds that support the Copilot AI are only available as part of the Windows Insider program. If you aren't part of that, you can sign up here.
 You'll need to be part of the Dev Channel, and download the latest Windows 11 update once you've been accepted.
Microsoft Copilot release date Microsoft announced Copilot in March 2023, with a steady roll out beginning with Windows Insiders on the Dev channel, and slowly debuting on other insider channels, with the eventual plan to make it a general Windows feature that anyone running Windows 11 can utilize.
At the time of writing in September 2023, we don't have any kind of timeline for this eventual roll out, nor a plan for a final release of the feature. For now, if you want to try out Microsoft Copilot, you'll need the latest Windows 11 Dev channel release.
For more information on joining the Windows Insider program, head to the sign up page.
Want to play around with an AI from Microsoft? Bing Chat is readily available and based on similar technology.
Microsoft / Microsoft How to use Windows Copilot The Windows 11 Copilot AI is available in Windows 11 build 23493 and higher releases. If you have that, whether as part of the Insider Program or because that build has now been rolled out to a wider audience, here's how to start using Microsoft Copilot.
Step 1: Open the Settings menu by pressing Windows key + I , then select Personalization from the left-hand menu.
Step 2: Select the Taskbar section, then next to Copilot (preview) , select the toggle to turn it On.
How to remove a login password on Windows 11 Here is how you can uninstall Windows 11 This powerful ChatGPT feature is back from the dead — with a few key changes Step 3: Once enabled, you can ask the Microsoft Copilot questions in the same way as ChatGPT with web access , Bing Chat, or alternatives like Google Bard.
Select the Copilot button in your taskbar, or press Windows key + C to launch the Copilot AI, then select your conversation type, and type your question into the prompt pane in the bottom-right corner. It can be a question that's related to external information, or Windows itself, and you can be as vague or as precise as you like.
Step 4: If you want to change the Microsoft Copilot settings, select the three-dot menu icon in the top-right corner, and select Settings from the drop-down menu.
Step 5: Want Microsoft Copilot to summarize a document for you? Drag and drop a file into the prompt pane and select what you want it to do: Explain Rewrite Summarize Copilot for Teams, Powerpoint, Excel, Word, and more One of the most exciting features of Microsoft Copilot is how it integrates with existing Microsoft applications. We've seen other apps benefit from Chatbot integration , so the potential for Office apps to be improved and augmented with Copilot is huge.
In Microsoft Outlook, Copilot can help users manage their inboxes to better sort emails or find information in one of them that traditional search tools can't.
In Excel, Copilot can analyze a database to look for trends or patterns that might exist which aren't immediately obvious. It can also be used to have it display the data in the most easy to understand ways.
In Word, Copilot can effectively use Copilot like the best version of ChatGPT (with GPT-4). It can write content for you, edit and proofread something you've written, make suggestions about grammar, word choice, syntax, or anything else you ask of it. If you want it to write something for you, or help you write something better, Copilot is a great assistant.
In PowerPoint, Copilot can make entire presentations for you based on a simple prompt. You'll likely need to make adjustments, but you can feed it information that it would need for your presentation, including other presentations, leaflets, or product sheets.
In Teams, Copilot can summarize entire chat threads for you so you can quickly get up to speed on what's been discussed. This can be great for onboarding new employees, catching someone up after a vacation, or making sure workers in different timezones are quickly up to speed. In live calls, Copilot can transcribe conversations, draft notes, summarize what's been said, create visualizations for project ideas, and take details about who is present and contributed to the meeting.
Teams and other Microsoft 365 applications with Copilot are currently available to those in the Microsoft 365 Copilot Early Access Program, only.
Is Microsoft Copilot free? Unfortunately, no. Due to the sheer amount of computing power required to run AI's like Microsoft Copilot, Microsoft will charge $30 per month fee per user. While that makes the cost for individuals, freelancers, and contractors relatively affordable, it could be much more costly for larger organizations which could make use of its many faceted tools.
This will be an additional cost on top of any existing Microsoft 365 subscriptions, bringing the total per-user price to around $37 per month for home users, and upwards of $43 per month for each business user.
If you aren't part of the Insider Program and still want to play around with an advanced AI, check out some of these free GPT-4-powered AI.
Editors' Recommendations How to find your computer specs on Windows 11 Common Microsoft Teams problems and how to fix them How to use Passkeys in Windows 11 Windows 11 is turning into Windows 12 right in front of us Microsoft Copilot sounds great. Here’s why I definitely won’t use it Artificial Intelligence How-To Guides Microsoft Microsoft Windows Windows 11 Windows Guides Computing I don't blame you if you're fed up with all of the AI talk. It started with ChatGPT, it moved to Bing Chat, and now you can't open up Apple News without a deluge of AI news. It's overwhelming. And now, Microsoft wants you to use AI as an assistant throughout all of Windows 11. No thanks.
Call me a cynic, but I pushed back. Bing Chat following me around Windows 11 didn't sound like a good time, but I swallowed my pride, decided to do my job as a tech journalist, and kindly asked what it could do at Microsoft's September 2023 event. And Windows Copilot blew me away.
Computing Microsoft Copilot is coming to Bing and Edge Microsoft You'll soon be hearing more about Microsoft Copilot and Bing Image Creator as these innovative technologies come to Microsoft Edge and Bing. The news of their arrival was delivered at Microsoft's Surface Event, along with several more AI and hardware announcements.
Computing Microsoft has just unveiled the latest version of Windows 11, and it features updates across the operating system, from AI to new tools and features.
Among the updates are changes to Microsoft’s Copilot AI tool, which will have more features to help users in apps like Word and Excel, as well as within Windows 11 itself. Copilot can be used to summarize meetings, write emails, help with analysis, and much more.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
