Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing News Microsoft just turned the Edge browser into a gaming powerhouse By Nathan Drescher Close Microsoft just turned its Edge browser into a gaming powerhouse with a suite of new features, including a gaming home feed, crisper graphics for cloud gaming, and a buffet of casual online games.
The update to Edge began rolling out to Windows 10 and Windows 11 devices this morning, and certainly makes it stand out among the tight competition for the best web browsers.
Image used with permission by copyright holder “Microsoft is all in on gaming,” Microsoft’s vice-president, Liat Ben-Zur, said. “And as we recently announced , we’re building a platform for the next 20 years that offers the games players want on any device they want to play.” Microsoft recently teased a Game Pass widget and optimization for cloud gaming at the Xbox & Bethesda Showcase on June 12, so today’s Edge update wasn’t completely unexpected.
All upcoming Xbox Series X games: 2023, 2024 and beyond One of the year’s best reviewed games is coming to Xbox Game Pass Sony just made all other wireless gaming earbuds obsolete The first thing gamers will notice is a new gaming homepage on their Edge browser.
 Users signed into Edge with their Xbox account will see their gaming library and gaming-related news as soon as they launch the browser, rather than the news and weather. Users with a Game Pass Ultimate subscription can launch and play Xbox cloud games directly from the browser.
The gaming homepage can be accessed by launching Edge and clicking on the new “Gaming” header at the top of the screen.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The new Edge also brings a bevy of features to help improve gameplay. Clarity Boost helps make streaming games look sharper and clearer by scaling visuals on the client side. Microsoft claims this will make games streamed via the cloud as crisp as games downloaded to a console. Clarity Boost will work on any supported device, whether you play on a high-end PC or a tablet.
Clarity Boost is not turned on by default. You’ll need to first launch a game, then click on the (…) menu found in the top left of the screen, and toggle Clarity Boost to the “on” position.
Not all of the updates relate to cloud gaming. The new Efficiency Mode for Edge works when you’re playing a game you’ve already got on your PC. Now, instead of closing Edge to save on memory resources, the browser will automatically reduce its resource usage while you’re playing. You can keep Edge open and launch a high-intensity game without losing RAM.
 The browser will restore its power usage once the game is closed.
Efficiency Mode can be turned on directly in the Edge browser settings. You’ll find the option under the System and Performance tab in Edge settings.
Do you remember Microsoft’s classic Solitaire and Minesweeper games? Now you can play them directly in your browser. Microsoft brought a bevy of casual games to the new Edge, including some brand new titles. You can play Mahjong, Solitaire, Jewel, and Minesweeper along with a new game called Microsoft Edge Surfer.
Click the (…) menu in the top right corner of Edge and then click on “Games” to find your favorite way to waste time.
The company said the new features are available right now for anyone running Edge on Windows 10 or Windows 11 devices, although this may only apply to the U.S. currently.
If you don’t live in the U.S. or you don’t see the new gaming options on your Edge browser, it may just be a matter of waiting for the rollout to come to your region. In the meantime, you can still play on Game Pass or try out the Steam Deck for a mind-blowing experience.
Editors' Recommendations Microsoft is making AI game-writing tools for Xbox with Inworld AI Check out this fantastic horror game before it leaves Xbox Game Pass next week Microsoft has acquired Activision Blizzard: What does that mean for you? Play Xbox Game Pass’ weirdest game before it leaves on September 30 Microsoft Bing and Edge are getting a big DALL-E 3 upgrade Gaming Microsoft Tech News Gaming As the Xbox Game Pass program has grown, so has our list of the best games on Xbox Game Pass. After the launch of the Xbox Series X, Microsoft has doubled down on Game Pass, now offering well over 350 games on the console alone. To help you through option paralysis, we rounded up the top games on Microsoft's subscription platform.
Many titles are available across Xbox and PC, and some of them even have cross-save support. Most of the games are available for streaming on mobile too, as long as you have Game Pass Ultimate. The Game Pass library is also constantly changing, so check out our monthly guide for addition and removal announcements.
Computing "The game is poorly optimized on PC," is a phrase I've heard probably 100 times this year alone. It holds some weight. This has been a terrible year for PC releases -- in an otherwise fantastic year for games overall -- and that largely comes down to how games are optimized for the platform. But "optimization," as a term, is tossed around so often that it feels like a lot of gamers are losing sight of what PC optimization actually means.
Most recently, a Bloomberg reporter asked Starfield director Todd Howard the fairly ignorant question: "Why did you not optimize this game for PC?" Howard's response, which I happen to agree with, was simple. "Uh ... we did," he said.
Computing The Outlook app on the Z Flip 5 cover screen Joe Maring / Digital Trends Microsoft’s popular email client and organizer Outlook will soon be getting an update that should allow users to send large files without encountering any errors. We first heard about the update last month, and per the Microsoft 365 road map website, Feature ID 156100 is going to enable Outlook users to upload files seamlessly, even when they come across email size restrictions.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
