Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Split Screen in Windows 11 Windows 11 Requirements Get Windows 11 for Free Screenshot on Windows 11 Uninstall Windows 11 Android Apps on Windows 11 Home Computing The new Microsoft Store will integrate the Epic Games Store without extra fees By Arif Bacchus Close The revamped Microsoft Store is coming out of beta on October 5, and the company had some big news to share about integration of third-party stores.
In a move that feels like a shot at Apple , the new Microsoft Store will allow third-party storefront apps to be discoverable in the Microsoft Store. That will include both Amazon and Epic Games, which are planning to bring their storefront apps to the Microsoft Store over the next few months.
Following through with its promise from earlier this year, Microsoft says it won’t take a cut of purchases made in these third-party stores that already have their own payment systems.
The announcement from Microsoft comes seemingly in response to the ongoing legal struggles between Epic Games and Apple over the latter taking a cut from purchases made in the iOS app store.
Microsoft Teams is getting new AI tools — and they’re free Lagging in games? This Windows 11 update might fix the problem Is Microsoft’s new PC cleaner just an Edge ad in disguise? But beyond third-party storefronts, Microsoft claims to be welcoming direct competition, such as third-party web browsers. The company said this is to “enable developers to bring their own browser engines instead of relying on the OS’ web platform.” Opera and Yandex Browser are two web browsers to come on board so far. There’s no word on bigger competitors like Google Chrome or Firefox, though.
The new Microsoft Store has been in beta since its announcement earlier this year, with a public launch now scheduled for October 5, the same day that Windows 11 is expected to launch.
According to Microsoft, the store has some big-name apps ready to launch on day one, including the Opera web browser and Discord. It mentioned that hundreds of apps developers have already registered to bring new apps to the store. The list includes communications apps like Discord, Zoom Cloud Meetings, and KakaoTalk. There are also creativity-focused tools such as Luminar AI, Music Maker, and VLC.
As for the much-anticipated ability to run Android apps in Windows 11 , Microsoft shared the news that this feature will be rolling out as a preview for Windows Insiders soon. It is planning to share more details about the system requirements and market availability of the preview experience in the near future.
Windows 10 users are also expected to get the new store as well “in the coming months.” Windows 11 is set for launch on October 5, and this new Microsoft Store is just one of the new features that will come with it. Other big features include the redesigned Start Menu and Taskbar, a new Widgets experience, and productivity-first features like Snap Groups. We talked about all these features and more in our initial hands-on preview of Windows 11.
Editors' Recommendations This web browser integrates ChatGPT in a fascinating new way Microsoft, please don’t screw up the Asus ROG Ally It’s not just you: Microsoft confirms Windows 11 is having gaming issues Microsoft says disabling these two Windows 11 features will boost gaming performance Microsoft Edge has a new trick for increased performance Microsoft Microsoft Windows PC Gaming Tech News Windows 11 Computing Microsoft Teams could get a surprising new feature that might spice up your boring set of daily meetings -- though your supervisor may not like it.
According to The Verge, Microsoft is currently internally testing classic games like Solitaire and Wordament in Teams, for a special use in meetings and hybrid work scenarios.
Computing You're more than likely spending more time in your web browser these days. The good news is that, just like the keyboard shortcuts you can use on Windows or on MacOS, there are several shortcuts that can prove useful in the Microsoft Edge web browser.
These shortcuts can spare you from having to move your mouse around inside the web browser. There are a total of six that we really like, including editing the URL, getting to the settings menu, closing tabs, and so much more. Here's a deeper look at the six shortcuts you really need to try.
Alt + D to edit the URL Computing Microsoft is acknowledging many of its top applications and developers in a new Microsoft Store App Awards.
The brand has announced winners, runners-up, and finalists of various awards categories, split between Community Choice Awards that were nominated by users and Microsoft Store Editor’s Choice Awards that were selected in-house.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
