Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Split Screen in Windows 11 Windows 11 Requirements Get Windows 11 for Free Screenshot on Windows 11 Uninstall Windows 11 Android Apps on Windows 11 Home Computing Features Windows 11 2022 Update: the best new features to try out today By Luke Larsen Close Microsoft has announced its first big update to Windows 11 , officially named the “Windows 11 2022 Update.” It’s packed full of features, many of which have been highly anticipated since the initial launch of Windows 11 in 2021.
Customizable Start Menu Redesigned File Explorer Better touch controls, improved Snap Layouts More Android apps Clipchamp Voice Access and Live Captions The annual update touches on a little bit of everything, including user interface, customization, security, accessibility, and even new applications.
Customizable Start Menu Arif Bacchus/ Digital Trends The Start Menu has always been the most controversial aspect of Windows 11 when upgrading from Windows 10 , so some updates to its interface and usability are welcome. The most obvious change in the Windows 11 2022 Update is that the Start Menu now allows you to put applications into folders so they’re easier to organize. It’s done through simple dragging and dropping, and they can, of course, be renamed — not unlike how you can do it on an iOS or Android device.
A major Windows update just launched. Here’s what’s new I love Macs. But here are 5 reasons I keep coming back to Windows Windows 11 adoption is slowing, and we finally know why You can also customize the Start Menu to show either “More Pins” or “More Recommendations,” which determines whether you’re seeing more applications or more suggested files. This has been highly recommended, since feedback from the community has shown that many people don’t find much use with the recommended files.
The Windows 11 2022 Update has also made searching directly from the task bar more efficient. Launching apps, for example, is far more responsive now, instantly pulling up the application with just a character or two typed in the search box.
Redesigned File Explorer Microsoft File Explorer is one of the most commonly used apps in Windows, and now it’s getting a few tweaks to tighten things up. First things first, tabs are finally coming to File Explorer, meaning you can have multiple folder locations open side by side in a single window. This has been a feature of Finder in MacOS for years now, so it’s great to finally see it come to Windows. Microsoft did note, however, that tabs in File Explorer won’t officially be available until sometime in October.
File Explorer is also getting some new ways of accessing files and folders. You can now pin documents or files to the sidebar under “Quick access.” Furthermore, there’s a new “home page,” which gives you access to these quick access folders and documents, as well as a new “Favorites” section.
When you sync your folders with OneDrive, there’s a new sync status, which lets you know files are synced at a quick glance. It also can display recent activity from collaborators on the document.
Better touch controls, improved Snap Layouts Windows 11 doesn’t include a “tablet mode” that’s specifically made for touch controls, but it’s been made with touch-centric devices in mind. The update, though, smooths out some of the wrinkles. In particular, Snap Layouts are now more touch-friendly, letting you jump in Snap Layouts just by dragging the window to the top of the screen.
You can even now swipe up on the desktop to pull up the Start Menu or swipe down to dismiss it. The same thing works if you swipe up above the system tray to invoke Quick Settings.
More Android apps Image used with permission by copyright holder Before the update, there were more than 1,000 Android apps available in the Microsoft Store. The Windows 11 2022 Update increases that significantly to over 20,000.
All 20,000 Android apps still exist through Microsoft’s partnership with Amazon Appstore for Android.
 This is still a fraction of the more 400,000 that exist on the platform, meaning Microsoft is still highly curating these apps for Windows 11. We’re still a long way from the vision of having a complete library of Android apps available on Windows PCs, but the Windows 11 2022 Update takes one more step in the right direction.
Clipchamp Microsoft bought the video-editing application Clipchamp back in 2021, and now we’re seeing the fruit of that acquisition. Clipchamp has been available in early builds of Windows 11 through the Insider program, but the video-editing software is now available to all PCs via the Windows 11 2022 Update.
The demise of Windows Movie Maker in 2017 has left a hole in Microsoft’s bundle of included software, and having Clipchamp available provides a solid default option for people who need to put together quick videos on a Windows PC. Think of it as the Microsoft Paint of video.
Voice Access and Live Captions Arif Bacchus/ Digital Trends The Windows 11 2022 Update brings a couple of admirable accessibility features, specifically for those with specific needs for controlling their PCs. Voice Access is a new feature that lets you control the entirety of Windows 11 exclusively with your voice.
Live Captions, on the other hand, will convert any audio source into captions, including videos and video calls. While many individual applications and websites include captioning, Live Captions does this universally throughout the entirety of the operating system.
Editors' Recommendations Windows 11 might finally reverse course on preinstalled applications Surprise: Windows 11 is doing much better than we thought This simple keyboard shortcut could save you when installing Windows 11 If you have an AMD GPU, stay away from the latest Windows Update Windows 11 is turning into Windows 12 right in front of us Features Microsoft Microsoft Windows Windows 11 Computing I don't blame you if you're fed up with all of the AI talk. It started with ChatGPT, it moved to Bing Chat, and now you can't open up Apple News without a deluge of AI news. It's overwhelming. And now, Microsoft wants you to use AI as an assistant throughout all of Windows 11. No thanks.
Call me a cynic, but I pushed back. Bing Chat following me around Windows 11 didn't sound like a good time, but I swallowed my pride, decided to do my job as a tech journalist, and kindly asked what it could do at Microsoft's September 2023 event. And Windows Copilot blew me away.
Computing If you've installed the latest Windows 11 update and you've been experiencing all sorts of issues ever since, you're not alone And if you're still yet to install it, it's probably best hold off on it for now. Many users have been reporting problems following the recent update, including crashes, slowdowns, and blue screens of death (BSOD). Gamers appear to be affected most of all, with some reporting stuttering in Starfield and Ratchet and Clank: Rift Apart.
Following the latest update released on Patch Tuesday, various reports of problems started pouring in across social media and Microsoft's Feedback Hub. Microsoft itself hasn't spoken up about this yet, but considering the number of reported issues, we could soon hear an official comment on the situation. If you've already installed the update and aren't experiencing problems, you have nothing to worry about. If you have installed and are encountering issues, it's best to revert to the previous version and reach out through the Feedback Hub.
Computing From smart speakers to ChatGPT and Bing Chat, AI has slowly crept into our lives, but not all instances of AI are as prominent as those three examples. Sometimes, the effect is subtle, but still pretty nice. It appears that Microsoft is working on one such instance of AI-enhanced tech that could make using Windows 11 just a little more pleasant. We're talking about AI-powered live wallpapers, and they might be coming soon.
First spotted by Windows Latest, Microsoft is readying an AI-powered desktop that could make the whole user experience feel a lot more interactive. The idea is to adjust depth perception and make some backgrounds appear more "alive" when moving your cursor or the entire device. The wallpaper might move or shift, depending on what you're doing on the desktop.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
