Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Split Screen in Windows 11 Windows 11 Requirements Get Windows 11 for Free Screenshot on Windows 11 Uninstall Windows 11 Android Apps on Windows 11 Home Computing Features The Windows 11 2022 update is what we should have seen from the start By Jacob Roach Close Windows 11 is getting its first major update since it launched last year, and it brings a lot of new features. From tabs and Task Manager to a built-in video editor, Windows 11 is starting to take shape; it just took us a year to get here.
Features make the difference Delivering on promises Trending upwards If you don’t remember the disappointing launch of Windows 11 last year, you’re lucky. Although Microsoft brought some new features to the OS, it’s mostly been a visual reskin of Windows 10.
 The 2022 update change that — it makes Windows 11 the OS that we should have had from the beginning.
Features make the difference Dung Caovn/Unsplash Windows 11 didn’t launch in the best state. For starters, it was missing support for Android apps , which was the marquee feature, and the ongoing issues with TPM made installing the new OS confusing and frustrating. Add on top of that performance issues, like up to a 15% drop in gaming performance on Ryzen processors, and upgrading didn’t seem too enticing.
A major Windows update just launched. Here’s what’s new This simple keyboard shortcut could save you when installing Windows 11 If you have an AMD GPU, stay away from the latest Windows Update We’re past the growing pains, but the Windows 11 we’ve had for the past year isn’t the Windows 11 Microsoft is offering now. The 2022 update brings features to the OS, which is something the initial release seriously lacked. Press, analysts, and fans called it out as mostly a Windows 10 reskin, and for the past year, that’s been right. Now, Microsoft is adding the features that should have been in Windows 11 from the start.
Tabs in File Explorer is a good illustration of that. This has been a feature fans have requested for years, and we’re finally getting it with the Windows 11 2022 update.
 The original Windows 11 File Explorer was the same one we had in Windows 10, short of a few new icons. Now, we have a File Explorer that’s far more useful than what we had before.
Image used with permission by copyright holder For creative types, Clipchamp is a huge win too. Windows has been starved for a built-in video editor since Windows Movie Maker bit the dust (rest in peace), and Clipchamp is the perfect solution to fill that gap. AI features are making a difference too, with Microsoft taking its background blur, automatic framing, and eye contact features available in Teams to the whole operating system.
Those are just a few of the features in the Windows 11 2022 update, too.
Windows 11 had a rocky start, but the hesitation to upgrade for a lot of users came down to a lack of new features. This update brings the scales in balance, separating Windows 11 from Windows 10 and providing some tangible upgrades.
Delivering on promises Arif Bacchus/ Digital Trends Although Microsoft is adding new features with its first major Windows 11 update, it’s also delivering on some key promises. Most notably, it’s adding several accessibility features to the OS. Now, you have access to systemwide automated captions that you can activate with a simple key command, and you can use your voice to fully control your PC.
Microsoft billed Windows 11 as its most accessible OS to date, which has only technically been true over the past year. There were more accessibility features than Windows 10, but not enough to write home about. Syste-wide captions and voice control are a huge boost, allowing those who struggle with traditional input methods to fully use the OS.
In addition to accessibility, the update brings Microsoft’s push for remote work full circle. Windows 11 was described as an OS built for how you work and how you play, but again, sparse features failed to make it feel that way. The update brings further support for Do Not Disturb, which you can now set to kick in automatically, as well as more features for Focus.
Microsoft Focus was one of my most anticipated features, but it didn’t play out how I expected in the initial release. It’s now integrated into the clock in your system tray, and you can engage Focus for a set amount of time. You can also customize which notifications you get when Focus is turned on, as well as quickly access music and podcast apps. It’s a centralized tool to help you focus, which it wasn’t before.
Trending upwards Image used with permission by copyright holder Windows 11 was off to a slow start late last year, but it’s finally starting to pick up steam. The latest reports say that around 23% of PCs are now running Windows 11 , which is a major jump considering that number was closer to 15% at the start of the year. This update, along with the features it brings, should boost the adoption rate even more.
For the first time since Microsoft announced Windows 11, I’m excited about the future of the OS. This looks like the version we should’ve seen from the start, thanks to not only a visual overhaul, but also features built for PC users in 2022.
Editors' Recommendations ‘Compact Mode’ can’t fix the Xbox app. Here’s what could Surprise: Windows 11 is doing much better than we thought Windows 11 adoption is slowing, and we finally know why I saw the AI future of Windows 11, and it blew me away The latest Windows Update is reportedly causing Starfield problems Features Microsoft Microsoft Windows Windows 11 Computing From smart speakers to ChatGPT and Bing Chat, AI has slowly crept into our lives, but not all instances of AI are as prominent as those three examples. Sometimes, the effect is subtle, but still pretty nice. It appears that Microsoft is working on one such instance of AI-enhanced tech that could make using Windows 11 just a little more pleasant. We're talking about AI-powered live wallpapers, and they might be coming soon.
First spotted by Windows Latest, Microsoft is readying an AI-powered desktop that could make the whole user experience feel a lot more interactive. The idea is to adjust depth perception and make some backgrounds appear more "alive" when moving your cursor or the entire device. The wallpaper might move or shift, depending on what you're doing on the desktop.
Computing Microsoft makes it easy to change the default browser in Windows 11. That's important if you require special features specific to one of the many web browsers that are available on a PC. Unfortunately, it's not as simple to be rid of Edge entirely.
Microsoft Edge will still load to open some other file types. When opening a link from Windows Settings or other system components, the webpage will load in Edge. That's now about to change, however, according to a recent Windows blog post.
Computing As if we needed another reason to hold off on downloading the latest patches before they've been tested by a considerable number of people, Microsoft's most recent Windows Update comes with an unfortunate side effect -- it causes blue screens for some users. The blue screen shows up right at boot, citing the "UNSUPPORTED_PROCESSOR" error as the stop code. Here's what we know, and more importantly, how to make sure this doesn't affect your PC too.
The issue started popping up right after the latest Windows 11 update, KB5029351, which brought the operating system up to version 22621.2215. The build addresses some issues and brings minor improvements, such as adding a new hover behavior to the search box gleam and improving the reliability of the Search app.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
