Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Split Screen in Windows 11 Windows 11 Requirements Get Windows 11 for Free Screenshot on Windows 11 Uninstall Windows 11 Android Apps on Windows 11 Home Computing News Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Windows 11 to add A.I. auto framing, eye contact in video calls By Arif Bacchus Close Coming soon to Windows 11 are some features powered by A.I. that can help make you better connected with the folks on the other end of your Teams calls. Also in the works are added security features, to protect against malware and phishing.
Announced by Panos Panay, the first set of features includes voice clarity, automatic framing, portrait background blur, and eye contact for meetings on Windows 11.
 Some features might be hardware-dependent, and Panay didn’t get into the specifics or give a release date. He instead mentioned that “we want to make that [meeting] experience feel more personal and more human.” Microsoft Microsoft previously partnered with Qualcomm on some of these same technologies. The new Snapdragon 8cx Gen 3 ARM-based chip has features in the integrated GPU that can support faster camera start-up time, support for auto-focus, auto white balance, and noise cancellation. The Lenovo ThinkPad X13s has these features built-in, including A.I.-based auto framing, intelligent noise impression, and the ability to mute out background noises on both ends of the calls.
These A.I.-powered meeting features promised for Windows 11 pair up with two new security enhancements. In these areas, Windows 11 is getting better protection against phishing and targeted malware.
I saw the AI future of Windows 11, and it blew me away I hope Microsoft adds this rumored AI feature to Windows 11 This new Windows 11 feature is a great addition for PC gamers “We’re continuing on our Windows journey to empower IT to continuously raise the bar against attack patterns from the chip to the cloud,” explained Panay.
With the phishing protection, Microsoft Defender SmartScreen can identity and alert you when you’re putting your Microsoft information into a malicious application or a hacked website. In a separate post announcing the feature, David Weston, VP, Enterprise & OS Security at Microsoft, suggested that this makes Windows the world’s first operating system with phishing safeguards built-in, and shipped out of the box to help users stay productive and secure.
Microsoft The malware protection, meanwhile, comes with Smart App Control, which was previously tested with Dev Channel Windows Insiders. This feature uses code signing alongside A.I. models to ensure that only trusted applications are running on your PC. The feature will come shipped on new Windows 11 installs only, and devices running previous versions of Windows 11 will have to be reset to get it.
Other security features coming to Windows 11 include Hypervisor-Protected Code Integrity (HVCI) being turned on by default on more Windows 11 devices. This can ensure that attackers can’t inject their own code with drivers and ensure all drivers being loaded are trustworthy.
Alongside all this, Microsoft is also announcing updates for its Windows 365 service, which allows enterprises and businesses to access PCs from the cloud. It’s now coming closer to Windows 11. Windows 365 boot will let users log into a Cloud PC at the startup of a Windows 11 PC, and Windows 365 Switch will let users move between Cloud PCs and desktop spaces with the Windows 11 Task switcher. A Windows 365 app is also in the work for Windows as well as Windows 365 Offline, which enables work in Windows 365 when disconnected.
You can learn more about these features, and more updates for Microsoft Endpoint manager, at Microsoft’s dedicated Windows powers the future of Hybrid Work website.
Editors' Recommendations I love Macs. But here are 5 reasons I keep coming back to Windows Windows 11 vs. Windows 10: finally time to upgrade? Windows 11 will finally respect your default browser — in Europe Common Windows 11 problems and how to fix them ChatGPT can now generate working Windows 11 keys for free Microsoft Microsoft Windows Tech News Windows 11 Computing Windows 11 is finally creating a solution for the multitude of RGB apps that clutter most gaming PCs. The long-rumored feature is with Windows Insiders now through Build 23475, which Windows announced in a blog post on Wednesday.
The feature, called Dynamic Lighting, looks to unify all of the different apps and devices that use RGB lighting so you don't have to bounce between several different apps. More importantly, Microsoft is doing so through the open HID LampArray standard, which makes it compatible with a long list of devices. Microsoft says it already has partnerships with Acer, Asus, HP, HyperX, Logitech, Razer, and Twinkly to support Dynamic Lighting.
Computing Microsoft teased a design overhaul that is coming to the Windows 11 File Explorer app in a future update at its Build developer conference this week.
The new File Explorer design is based on WinUI 3 and will modernize the app's folders, sidebar, address bar, and search bar to be more in tune with the overall Windows 11 style. This will bring to File Explorer a look and feel with more rounded and blurred designs, as well as mouse and touch optimizations, Windows Central noted.
Computing Announced at Microsoft Build 2023, Windows will now have its own dedicated AI "copilot" that can be docked right into a side panel that can stay persistent while using other applications and aspects of the operating system.
Microsoft has been highly invested in AI over these recent months, and it was only a matter of time before it came to Windows. The time is now -- and it's coming in a big way.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
