Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Split Screen in Windows 11 Windows 11 Requirements Get Windows 11 for Free Screenshot on Windows 11 Uninstall Windows 11 Android Apps on Windows 11 Home Computing Guides What are the requirements to run Windows 11? By Arif Bacchus Close Chances are you've heard of Windows 11 by now. It's the latest and greatest version of Microsoft's popular operating system. But are you wondering if your PC can run it? Basic requirements to run Windows 11 How to check PC if your PC can run Windows 11 Unlike past versions, Windows 11 has some strict install requirements. This has been causing controversy, but if you purchased your PC in the last few years, you should be able to run Windows 11 just fine.
Difficulty Duration What You Need An internet connection A Windows 10 PC That's why we put together this guide looking at all the requirements for Windows 11. From TPM to disk space, processor, and more, here's what you need to know.
Microsoft Basic requirements to run Windows 11 To run Windows 11, your system needs to meet Microsoft's minimum system requirements. In the event that it doesn't fit what we've mentioned here, then you might want to buy a new PC. If you're unsure of any of these specs, check with your PC marker.
Processor: 1 gigahertz (GHz) or faster with 2 or more cores on a compatible 64-bit processor or System on a Chip (SoC). The processor must be Intel 8th-generation or newer or AMD Ryzen 2000 series or newer. Microsoft has a full list of supported processors on its website.
RAM: 4GB, if your PC has less than 4GB, you can consider adding additional RAM. Check with your PC maker first.
Storage: 64 GB or larger. If your PC is low on storage, check out our guide on how to manage disk space.
System Firmware: UEFI with Secure Boot capabilities. We talked about using UEFI in a separate post.
TPM: Version 2.0.
Our guide covers how you can check for this.
Graphics card: DirectX 12 or later with WDDM 2.0 driver Display: High definition (720p) display that is greater than 9 inches diagonally, 8 bits per color channel.
Internet: Windows 11 Home edition requires internet connectivity and a Microsoft account.
Image used with permission by copyright holder How to check PC if your PC can run Windows 11 Now that you understand the minimum requirements to run Windows 11, you can check to see if your PC works with it. Microsoft makes this easy with the PC Health Check app.
 It's an official app you can download straight from Microsoft. Here's how you can get started with it.
Step 1: Visit Microsoft's website and download the PC Health Check app. Look for the Download PC Health Check App button on the page.
Step 2: Once the download is finished, launch the installer. Follow the steps on your screen. The app will then install and you can search for "PC Health Check" in your Start Menu to launch the app.
Windows 11 will soon harness your GPU for generative AI What does printer spooling mean, and how to fix it on Windows and Mac How to use a blue light filter on your PC or Mac Step 3: When the app is running, click the Check Now button at the top to check if your PC meets the system requirements. If all is well, you'll see a box pop up notifying you that your system is compatible. For more information, click See All Results.
You'll see how each of your PC's components stacks up against Microsoft's list.
If your PC isn't compatible, then you can try upgrading your RAM , storage, motherboard and processor, and add a TPM 2.0 chip to your system so it can fit the requirements. If you can't do that, then buying a new PC is a better option. We have a list of the best laptops and desktops that can help.
Editors' Recommendations Windows is just an application now Windows 11 might finally reverse course on preinstalled applications ‘Compact Mode’ can’t fix the Xbox app. Here’s what could A major Windows update just launched. Here’s what’s new How to find your computer specs on Windows 11 How-To Guides Microsoft Microsoft Windows Windows 10 Windows 11 Windows Guides Computing Your password is your key to Windows 11, as it protects your files and your important information. There are some cases, however, where you might want to remove a login password in Windows.
One such case is when you’re sharing a PC with someone and don’t necessarily have anything that’s private on your system. Though we don’t recommend it, removing the password can also mean faster logins to your PC.
Computing What appears to have been a slow burn in OS adoption for Windows 11 might actually be a very promising transition to Microsoft's current system.
The Windows 11 operating system is now actively running on over 400 million devices and is on track to hit half a billion installs by early 2024, according to a report from Windows Central.
Computing Thanks to the massive success of Apple Silicon, Macs have become increasingly tempting. Plenty of folks are heading back to the Mac for the first time in years, and in doing so, making the dramatic switch from Windows 11 to macOS.
When it comes to these operating systems, though, they're not equal across the board. And in the end, here are the five things that keep me coming back to Windows 11.
Device support Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
