Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Split Screen in Windows 11 Windows 11 Requirements Get Windows 11 for Free Screenshot on Windows 11 Uninstall Windows 11 Android Apps on Windows 11 Home Computing News The latest Windows Update is reportedly causing Starfield problems By Monica J. White Close Microsoft If you’ve installed the latest Windows 11 update and you’ve been experiencing all sorts of issues ever since, you’re not alone And if you’re still yet to install it, it’s probably best hold off on it for now. Many users have been reporting problems following the recent update, including crashes, slowdowns, and blue screens of death (BSOD). Gamers appear to be affected most of all, with some reporting stuttering in Starfield and Ratchet and Clank: Rift Apart.
Following the latest update released on Patch Tuesday, various reports of problems started pouring in across social media and Microsoft’s Feedback Hub.
 Microsoft itself hasn’t spoken up about this yet, but considering the number of reported issues, we could soon hear an official comment on the situation. If you’ve already installed the update and aren’t experiencing problems, you have nothing to worry about. If you have installed and are encountering issues, it’s best to revert to the previous version and reach out through the Feedback Hub.
The security update in question (KB5030219) is a mandatory one, which might explain the scale of the problem. Blue screens seem like the most severe outcome of installing the patch, as reported by the readers of Windows Latest.
 Fortunately, Windows should automatically uninstall the update if unable to boot following a BSOD, but it appears that for some people, their devices were rendered entirely unusable, without an option to get past the BIOS.
Windows 11 might finally reverse course on preinstalled applications ‘Compact Mode’ can’t fix the Xbox app. Here’s what could Surprise: Windows 11 is doing much better than we thought Some users also reported that they couldn’t even boot their PCs properly after applying the patch, while others experienced freezes on lock screens. Lastly, various network problems started cropping up, preventing users from connecting to the internet.
Upgrading to version 22621.2283 also brought on problems with the Start menu and the Search function, both of which appear to be broken for some people, according to user reports on Reddit and Microsoft’s Feedback Hub.
Bethesda Game Studios That’s not the extent of it, though.
Starfield gamers have been hit the hardest, with people reporting on Reddit and in the Feedback Hub that the game became unplayable following the September update.
“Launched Windows today, it requested a reboot for installing an update. After rebooting, 99th % of frames per second (fps) is 4 according to Nvidia Overlay. In the performance monitor, I can see that the CPU usage stays at 1-2% when the game is running,” said u/Everlier on Reddit.
 Several others appear to be experiencing the same sort of issue.
In the case of Starfield , Nvidia’s recent drivers have also been suspected to be the culprit — and we all know that can happen sometimes.
However, rolling back Nvidia drivers didn’t always help, so it might be Windows after all. It’s hard to say with any certainty until Microsoft itself speaks up on the matter.
That’s what’s tricky about Windows updates. In some cases, it’s not the update itself, but conflicts with other drivers or pieces of software.
This is the second problematic update in the last month or so. Last time, those with some of Intel’s best processors got stuck in BSOD loops until the update eventually auto-uninstalled. Time and time again, it’s proven that it’s often best to wait a few days to install fresh updates if you can — you never know what they might unleash.
Editors' Recommendations Windows is just an application now Will my computer automatically update for daylight saving time? A major Windows update just launched. Here’s what’s new I love Macs. But here are 5 reasons I keep coming back to Windows This simple keyboard shortcut could save you when installing Windows 11 News Microsoft Microsoft Windows Tech News Windows 11 Computing If you've just upgraded to the latest version of the Windows operating system, Windows 11, you're probably ready to dive in and customize its appearance. One easy way to customize Windows 11 is by adding a theme. And if you're in need of some Windows 11 theme inspiration, have a look at our list of the best Windows 11 themes.
Below, you will find some of our current favorite themes for the Windows 11 OS and why we enjoy them.
Explore native Windows 11 themes first Computing Did we just get a confirmation about the release time frame for Windows 12 -- and from Intel, of all sources? It seems that way. Intel spoke about its predictions for 2024, indicating that it expects 2024 to be a good year for client processors. That's huge for Intel because the next generation of its top processors, Meteor Lake, is set to come out in 2024. However, if Intel is right, it might be a big year for Microsoft, too.
The information comes from a transcript of the Citi 2023 Global Technology Conference. Most of it wasn't too exciting -- fireside chats aren't often that interesting to the masses -- but there's a little comment in there that piqued our interest.
Computing In the consumer space, Windows 11 adoption has been ticking along at a reasonable pace. For businesses, however, the OS may have reached its limit, as businesses struggle to upgrade machines to meet the minimum requirements.
IT asset management group Lansweeper has observed that the adoption of Windows 11 now stands at 8.35% as of October 2023, a slight jump from the 5.74% seen in September 2022. However, having conducted research on approximately 33 million Windows devices in the enterprise sector, Lansweeper has concluded that it is largely device incompatibility that is stalling Windows 11 updates on a grand scale.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
