Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Split Screen in Windows 11 Windows 11 Requirements Get Windows 11 for Free Screenshot on Windows 11 Uninstall Windows 11 Android Apps on Windows 11 Home Computing Windows 11’s best multitasking feature is getting even better By Arif Bacchus Close Snap Layouts in Windows 11 is already one of the best features of the operating system to help boost your productivity, but it could soon get a little better. As part of the latest Dev Channel release, Microsoft is testing a change for Snap Layouts that will make it more visually pleasing.
In the Dev Channel version of Windows 11 , the relevant app icon in a Snap Layout group now shows up overlaid on top of an acrylic background during resizing. This is a change from the standard version of Windows 11 , where doing the same thing only shows a glass tile.
“Snap some windows using the snap assist, resize the snapped window layout using the buffer, and watch the other snapped windows go out of focus overlaid with their app icon,” write Amanda Langowski and Brandon LeBlanc in Microsoft’s Windows Experience blog.
Though it’s quite a small change for an already great feature, Microsoft specifically notes to Windows Insiders that it has updated the experience of resizing app windows in snap layouts, which remains one of the most notable distinguishing features when comparing Windows 11 versus Windows 10.
Windows 11 will soon harness your GPU for generative AI ‘Compact Mode’ can’t fix the Xbox app. Here’s what could Surprise: Windows 11 is doing much better than we thought Since this is being tested in the Dev Channel of the Windows Insider program, there’s no specific time frame for when non-beta testers (and everyone with regular Windows 11) can experience the change. Usually, features in the Dev Channel are not linked to a specific Windows 11 release. Yet, there is some hope it could be coming soon to everyone.
Since the operating system was first released, Microsoft tested the ability to mute and unmute the microphone from the taskbar in Windows 11, as well as a new media player and Notepad app. These two specific features first rolled out in the Dev Channel, and Microsoft has since been confirmed they would be coming to regular Windows 11 next month.
The changes to Snap Layouts are among the many new features in this Dev Channel release. The media controls that appear in the Lock Screen have also been updated to match Windows 11’s new design elements. The release also brings some more natural voices for the Windows narrator.
If you want to try out Dev Channel releases for yourself, you’ll need to enroll your PC in the Windows Insider program.
 Just keep in mind that you might experience bugs, as the Dev Channel version of Windows 11 is quite unstable.
Editors' Recommendations Windows is just an application now Windows 11 might finally reverse course on preinstalled applications A major Windows update just launched. Here’s what’s new Even Intel’s best chips won’t catch up with Apple, TSMC CEO says I love Macs. But here are 5 reasons I keep coming back to Windows Microsoft Microsoft Windows Tech News Windows 11 Computing AI is the future. I'm convinced of it, too, because I've heard every company that even remotely touches technology tell me that's the case. We need AI. It's the bedrock of every technological innovation in the future.
If you can't sense the sarcasm, let me bring this down to earth. AI is everywhere, and that's not surprising. There are new tech trends every year, but this most recent boom in AI feels different. Ever since the switch was flipped and ChatGPT was unleashed on the world, there has been an AI frenz,y with some of the world's largest and most wealthy companies duking it out to end up on top of the AI pile.
Computing I install Windows 11 a lot. Be it for a clean slate on a PC that's acting up or a brand new PC, anyone who tinkers with computers will find themselves interacting with the Windows installer quite a bit. And it's far from perfect.
Over the past year, it's gotten worse, too. This is because Windows 11 now requires you to connect to the internet before proceeding with installation. If you don't have a connection (or another issues occurs, as I'll get to in a moment), you're out of luck. You're stuck. Thankfully, there's a Windows 11 shortcut that can crack open the installer and give you a lot more power: Shift + F10.
Computing If you've just upgraded to the latest version of the Windows operating system, Windows 11, you're probably ready to dive in and customize its appearance. One easy way to customize Windows 11 is by adding a theme. And if you're in need of some Windows 11 theme inspiration, have a look at our list of the best Windows 11 themes.
Below, you will find some of our current favorite themes for the Windows 11 OS and why we enjoy them.
Explore native Windows 11 themes first Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
