Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Split Screen in Windows 11 Windows 11 Requirements Get Windows 11 for Free Screenshot on Windows 11 Uninstall Windows 11 Android Apps on Windows 11 Home Computing Features Guides 4 Windows 11 accessibility features that make it easier for everyone to use By Aaron Leong Close Windows 11 feature some big updates for Microsoft’s storied operating system visually, but it has made big strides in accessibility as well. Live Captions, updates to the Narrator, and even full voice access might make Windows 11 the most accessible OS Microsoft has ever released.
Live captions Narrator Voice access Focus/Do not disturb Regardless of it you need accessibility features to navigate Windows 11 or if you just want to make getting around a little easier, we tried out a slew of features to bring you our favorites. If you want to browse the full list, you can find it by opening the Settings app in Windows 11 and selecting the Accessibility tab.
Live captions Image used with permission by copyright holder Similar to what you might’ve experienced on recent Android and iOS phones, Windows 11 adds the highly requested Live Captions feature.
 The OS projects Live Captions not just for audio and video played on your PC, but even your own speech when you speak directly through a microphone. Live Captions also work without an internet connection, so you can use the feature any time you need it.
Image used with permission by copyright holder You can switch the caption position either to the top or bottom of the screen, or make it a floating window. We found a negligible quarter-second delay between real time and projected text. The accuracy is solid for the most part, barring enunciation or quality issues from the source audio. Also, we’re not 100% sure if this is a feature or a bug, but during full-screen videos, the captions automatically jump to a floating window rather than your default position.
A major Windows update just launched. Here’s what’s new I love Macs. But here are 5 reasons I keep coming back to Windows Intel may have accidentally leaked the release date for Windows 12 There’s even an option to filter profanity out. Due to the resource-intensive nature of live, on-the-fly captioning, Microsoft suggests freeing some RAM by closing unused applications, but we didn’t notice any caption performance hiccups with 30 Chrome tabs and Adobe Photoshop running on a midrange laptop.
Narrator Image used with permission by copyright holder While Narrator itself isn’t new, Windows 11’s iteration brings welcome quality-of-life improvements such as more natural narrator voice packs. Similar to Edge’s Read Aloud function, the Narrator tool in the OS now produces realistic speech with support for USB-connected Braille displays.
Launching Narrator at any time will automatically activate a screen reader, which you can use to explore and navigate pretty much all aspects of the UI and menus on Windows. For greater control over how you want Narrator to work, you can dig deeper into its settings ( Windows key + Ctrl + N ) to install different human voices, define how much Narrator speaks while you type, and so on.
If the default language on your PC is set to U.S. English, there will be three installable voices to choose from (Aria, Jenny, and Guy). Once you have a voice installed, you can use it free of the internet. The voices definitely sound more natural than before, but they still lack the realism and fluidity of, say, Cortana, let alone Google’s efforts.
Voice access Image used with permission by copyright holder Voice access (and by extension, voice typing) may still be in preview status, but is nonetheless stable and feature-rich in Windows 11. It showcases the idea that with AI and speech algorithms, controlling, navigating, or dictating an email just by voice can be a really effective way to interact with your PC. You can launch and close applications, select and click items, navigate text, and activate keyboard keys — all hands-free.
One caveat to using Voice access is the abundant commands used to control the PC. Windows 11 has a training widget to get you started with the basics, but if your situation necessitates full voice control over your PC, you will need to invest quite a bit of time to learn the commands. It’s great that for on-screen elements, such as color palettes or radio buttons, you can have Windows assign numbers to each interactive element, so you can “click” on the one you need.
Another thing to note is that while third-party apps are supported by voice access, it’s not as well-baked as when using Microsoft products. Using and navigating Edge seems more integrated than with other browsers, for example. We hope that future updates provides stronger application support.
As a tandem function of voice access, voice typing works well, although it does occasionally lag for a split-second before catching up. Punctuation can also be automatically captured, although we found it to be accurate only about 80% of the time.
Focus/Do not disturb Image used with permission by copyright holder Focus has finally migrated from just being part of the Clock app to being its own feature in Windows 11 that is now called Focus Sessions. During a Focus Session, Windows 11 quiets down systemwide notifications or minimizes UI complexity and clutter. Microsoft says Focus Sessions are ideal for those with neurodivergence, but they also work great just to clear some clutter from your desktop.
Starting a Focus Session automatically enables Do Not Disturb mode. By default, Windows blocks all incoming notifications and prevents any opened or pinned app in the taskbar from flashing, but you can toggle these off. We do wish that customizing which app notifications are allowed was easily accessible directly on the Focus screen; currently, you have to head to System > Notifications > Set priority notifications.
Editors' Recommendations Windows 11 might finally reverse course on preinstalled applications Surprise: Windows 11 is doing much better than we thought This simple keyboard shortcut could save you when installing Windows 11 Windows 11 adoption is slowing, and we finally know why If you have an AMD GPU, stay away from the latest Windows Update Features Microsoft Microsoft Windows Windows 11 Computing Windows 12 is already upon us. Microsoft hasn't released the new operating system yet, or even formally announced it, but Microsoft's September 2023 event made it clear that recent updates to Windows 11 are laying the foundation for the next iteration of the OS.
A significant portion of the presentation focused on the upcoming AI assistant that is set to "revolutionize" the way you use Windows. A new update is now available for Windows 11 that adds Copilot to the OS. Copilot is said to be an everyday AI companion that provides assistance by uniquely integrating information from the internet, your work-related data, and your current PC tasks. It offers a range of AI features to numerous default apps by collecting data from your calendar, email, documents, and more to assist in quick text and email composition.
Computing I don't blame you if you're fed up with all of the AI talk. It started with ChatGPT, it moved to Bing Chat, and now you can't open up Apple News without a deluge of AI news. It's overwhelming. And now, Microsoft wants you to use AI as an assistant throughout all of Windows 11. No thanks.
Call me a cynic, but I pushed back. Bing Chat following me around Windows 11 didn't sound like a good time, but I swallowed my pride, decided to do my job as a tech journalist, and kindly asked what it could do at Microsoft's September 2023 event. And Windows Copilot blew me away.
Computing If you've installed the latest Windows 11 update and you've been experiencing all sorts of issues ever since, you're not alone And if you're still yet to install it, it's probably best hold off on it for now. Many users have been reporting problems following the recent update, including crashes, slowdowns, and blue screens of death (BSOD). Gamers appear to be affected most of all, with some reporting stuttering in Starfield and Ratchet and Clank: Rift Apart.
Following the latest update released on Patch Tuesday, various reports of problems started pouring in across social media and Microsoft's Feedback Hub. Microsoft itself hasn't spoken up about this yet, but considering the number of reported issues, we could soon hear an official comment on the situation. If you've already installed the update and aren't experiencing problems, you have nothing to worry about. If you have installed and are encountering issues, it's best to revert to the previous version and reach out through the Feedback Hub.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
