Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Guides DirectX 12 vs. DirectX 11: which is best for PC gaming? By Jacob Roach Close DirectX 12 is the latest graphics API that powers Windows 11, but many of the best PC games still either run on DirectX 11 or include an option to switch. Which should you choose? Graphics APIs aren’t equal DirectX 12 vs. DirectX 11: what’s the difference? DirectX 12 vs. DirectX 11: performance Should you use DirectX 12? Although most updates to DirectX are iterative, DirectX 12 represents a massive shift for the API Microsoft has been developing for several decades. It can massively improve performance in your games, and it has a few unique features that DirectX 11 doesn’t have access to.
Graphics APIs aren’t equal Image used with permission by copyright holder We have a full explainer breaking down what DirectX is , but it’s important to quickly cover what a graphics Application Programming Interface (API) is. A graphics API handles translating instructions from software (your game) into standardized instructions for your hardware (your graphics card and processor).
Best gaming PC deals: Powerful gaming rigs from just $750 These are the best budget gaming laptops you can buy right now The best PC builds: budget, gaming, video editing, and more Not all graphics APIs are built equally, however. As you can see in our breakdown of the Vulkan API , it provides better performance than DirectX in most games. API overhead can represent a significant difference in performance while playing games, so while it may seem fine to use whatever version of DirectX you want, it can be one of the most important settings to tweak.
DirectX 12 vs. DirectX 11: what’s the difference? The use of raytracing in Battlefield V.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Between DirectX 11 and DirectX 12, the most important difference is that DirectX 11 is a high-level API, while DirectX 12 is a low-level API. There are various layers between your game and your hardware. Low-level APIs are closer to the hardware, while high-level APIs are further away and more generalized.
It’s an important distinction between DirectX 11 and DirectX 12. In short, DirectX 12 allows game developers to target optimizations closer to the hardware, reducing the overhead incurred from the API and graphics driver. In turn, it’s also more difficult for developers to work with.
At launch, DirectX 12 actually showed slightly lower performance than DirectX 11, mainly on the back of its complexity. However, developers have targeted DirectX 12 more — ahem — directly over the past several years and squeezed out more optimizations. As we’ll get to next, DirectX 12 performs better than DirectX 11 in most games.
Another significant change in DirectX 12 is parallel compute. DirectX 11 handles serial operations, which means there’s a single queue of operations that execute in order. Parallel compute opens up the option for developers to make multiple calls at the same time, vastly improving the efficiency of operations.
Similarly, DirectX 12 opens up the possibility of asynchronous operations. This is similar to parallel compute, but they’re not the same thing. Asynchronous compute allows your hardware to continue operations without waiting for another operation to complete. For example, your CPU can execute an introduction to receive textures from memory and move on to executing another function (like AI for a character) without waiting for that memory instruction to finish. This prioritization can shave minor bits of latency in thousands of places, making your games run much faster overall.
Finally, DirectX 12 also supports a range of features from DirectX 12 Ultimate. You can read about these in our breakdown of DirectX , but they include ray tracing and variable rate shading , among other visual and performance features.
DirectX 12 vs. DirectX 11: performance Image used with permission by copyright holder There are a lot of technical differences between DirectX 11 and DirectX 12, but performance is king. As you can see in the chart above, you’re almost always getting better performance with DirectX 12 than you’ll get with DirectX 11, so it’s best to use the newer API.
We saw “almost” because the API isn’t the only factor in performance. Certain games don’t see much of a benefit from DirectX 12 because some games see more of a benefit from low-level optimizations than others.
Dying Light 2, for example, sees basically no change in performance. But Civilization VI, which has massive AI workloads that benefit from asynchronous compute, sees a huge improvement.
Shadow of the Tomb Raider and Tiny Tina’s Wonderlands sit somewhere in the middle.
Games aren’t the only factor. The results above were gathered with an AMD RX 7900 XTX , which is from AMD’s most recent generation. Newer graphics cards and processors will see a larger benefit from DirectX 12 than older generations.
There’s a pretty wide net here, though. We’re talking about the last several generations seeing an improvement, while graphics cards that are close to a decade old see a smaller improvement. If you have a modern PC, DirectX 12 is usually the right answer.
Should you use DirectX 12? Image used with permission by copyright holder There are a dozen or more games that support DirectX 11 and DirectX 12, including Civilization VI, Control, Shadow of the Tomb Raider, and Dying Light 2.
Most games will default to using DirectX 11 for compatibility purposes, but it’s a good idea to change over to DirectX 12 mode.
The only exception is if you have an older PC dating back 10 or more years. Older hardware may run smoother on DirectX 11, or DirectX 12 may not provide much of a benefit at all. The vast majority of people, however, should choose DirectX 12 for its more extensive features and better game optimizations.
Editors' Recommendations I fell in love with this adorable mini gaming PC This Noctua-themed gaming PC is a bespoke beauty — and you can buy it Baldur’s Gate 3 PC performance tested: best settings, DLSS, slow HDD mode, and more Between AMD’s Ryzen 7 7800X3D and Ryzen 9 7950X3D, there’s no contest The best processors for gaming: AMD and Intel face off Microsoft PC PC Gaming Computing Resident Evil 4 Remake is undoubtedly one of the most visually impressive PC releases we've seen in the past few years. Leveraging the highly scalable RE Engine, the game looks great while accommodating a wide range of hardware. In this guide, we're going to help you find the best settings.
In addition to the flexible engine, Resident Evil 4 Remake includes upscaling options and ray tracing to push high-end rigs to their limit. I've spent a few hours testing the game to dig into how ray tracing performs, what the best settings are, and what you can expect out of upscaling.
Best settings for Resident Evil 4 Remake Computing The best gaming keyboards aren't for everyone, but if you're looking for every competitive advantage, and every niche feature to augment your gaming ability and gaming immersion, then they're well worth considering. From cheap gaming keyboards to the ones best-suited for esports players, we've rounded up all of the options that we recommend for hardcore gamers. The best gaming keyboard for us is the Asus ROG Strix Flare II Animate. It comes with a variety of options for customization, as well as true mechanical switches, helping to give you an edge in your favorite games. It's a great option, but there are several other fantastic keyboards that would look great alongside your gaming mouse.
We borrowed some picks from our roundups of the best keyboards and the best wireless keyboards, so there are a lot of favorites here. Before picking anything up, make sure to check our list of gaming keyboard deals to make sure you're getting the best price.
Computing After nearly two years of exclusivity to the PS5, Returnal is finally available on PC. After playing for a little less than a week, I'm here to provide the best graphics settings I've found, as well as a few suggestions for how you can get the most out of upscaling and ray tracing in the game.
Overall, it's a solid PC port with a ton of options. I encountered a few stutters and two hard crashes during testing, but that's fairly stable for a game released in 2023. Hopefully, the few lingering issues will be resolved with a patch once the game is fully released.
The best settings for Returnal PC Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
