Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Split Screen in Windows 11 Windows 11 Requirements Get Windows 11 for Free Screenshot on Windows 11 Uninstall Windows 11 Android Apps on Windows 11 Home Computing How to make Windows 11 look like Windows 10 By Mark Coppock Close If you're not happy with Windows 11's new Start menu and Taskbar, then you're not alone. These are probably the two most contentious changes to the new operating system, and in this guide, we show you how to make Windows 11 look a little more like Windows 10.
Align the Start menu to the left Create a more Windows 10-like Start menu Use Windows 10 wallpapers Difficulty Duration What You Need Windows Settings app Stardock Start11 Windows 10 wallpapers There is only so far you can go, though. Windows 10's Live Tiles are no more, and you can't make Windows 11 look entirely like its predecessor. But you can get close if you're willing to spend a little time and maybe a little money. Note that we're focusing here on the easy steps you can take. There are registry and device hacks that can remove some Windows 11 look-and-feel features, but we've found that these can disappear with Windows updates, and they can cause more problems than they're worth.
Align the Start menu to the left The first and easiest change is to align the Start menu and Taskbar on the left-hand side of the screen.
Step 1: Open the Settings app and navigate to Personalization and then Taskbar.
Mark Coppock/Digital Trends Step 2: Open Taskbar Behaviors.
Mark Coppock/Digital Trends Windows 11 will soon harness your GPU for generative AI 4 easy ways to take a screenshot on a Windows PC How to calibrate your monitor to make it better for free Step 3: Change the Taskbar Alignment to the left.
Mark Coppock/Digital Trends Step 4: Your Start menu will now open on the left-hand side, and your Taskbar will align on the left.
Mark Coppock/Digital Trends Create a more Windows 10-like Start menu If you want your Start menu to look a lot more like Windows 10, then you'll need to go the third-party software route. The best option is Startdock's Start11 , which costs $5.99 and does more than just change the Start menu. Start11 can do more than just make the Start menu look more like Windows 10's version, too. It can also allow you to customize your Start button, Taskbar, and Search. However, those aren't focused on making Windows 11 look like Windows 10, so we won't focus on them here.
Step 1: Download and install Start11. Go to Startdock's Start11 page to download a 30-day trial or purchase the software.
Step 2: Open Start11. You'll start at the Start menu section (no pun intended). Toggle the Use the Start 11 Start Menu setting to On and select Windows 10 Style.
Mark Coppock/Digital Trends Step 3: Now, your Start menu will include the line of command buttons along the left-hand side, the Windows 10 program list, and pinned apps on the right.
Mark Coppock/Digital Trends Step 4: You have several options you can configure by right-clicking in the Pinned Apps area. You can create new groups; pin new apps, files, and folders; and access the Start11 configuration settings.
Mark Coppock/Digital Trends Use Windows 10 wallpapers If you prefer Windows 10's wallpapers, then it's easy enough to change. You just need to locate your preferred wallpaper.
Step 1: Download the wallpaper from a variety of sites. One good source is WallpaperCave.com , which has the default wallpapers easily accessible.
Mark Coppock/Digital Trends Step 2: Simply right-click on the wallpaper you want to use and select Save Image As to download it.
Mark Coppock/Digital Trends Step 3: Once you've downloaded your image, right-click on your screen and select Personalize.
Mark Coppock/Digital Trends Step 4: In the Personalization settings page, click on Background.
 Make sure Personalize Your Background is set on Picture.
Mark Coppock/Digital Trends Step 5: Select Browse Photos and locate your downloaded wallpaper.
Mark Coppock/Digital Trends Step 6: Your chosen Windows 10 wallpaper will now be active.
Mark Coppock/Digital Trends These are the easiest methods to make Windows 11 look like Windows 10. As mentioned above, we're not covering questionable or potentially damaging changes, but rather we've focused on the basics. Following just these few steps will give you a Windows 11 look that's a lot more familiar.
Editors' Recommendations Windows is just an application now How to insert a checkbox in Word Windows 11 might finally reverse course on preinstalled applications What does printer spooling mean, and how to fix it on Windows and Mac ‘Compact Mode’ can’t fix the Xbox app. Here’s what could How-To Guides Microsoft Microsoft Windows Windows 10 Windows 11 Windows Guides Computing Researchers are continually releasing studies on the potential harm of blue light. When you stare at a screen all day and into the evening, it can affect your sleep and disrupt your body's natural rhythms. For these reasons, blue light filters are incredibly important.
Computing Microsoft has just announced the latest update to Windows 11, which brings the operating system up to version 23H2. This is a cumulative update that comes with some of the most exciting features already announced in September, including Copilot, and brings some changes to Teams, among other things. Here's what's new and how to get it on your own PC.
When Microsoft first announced Copilot during its September event, many thought that it'd be available right away -- and it was, but not widely. Now, with the 23H2 update, Copilot should be downloaded and toggled on by default, alongside everything else that was announced during the Surface event. Some new things are on the way, too.
Computing Apple announced an update to its MacBook Pros at today's Scary Fast event that brings the M3, M3 Pro, and M3 Max under the hood. That might sound like a ho-hum generational chip refresh, especially coming just 10 months after the M2 Pro/Max models came out. But trust me -- these new MacBook Pros have become an unstoppable force, especially the new full-tilt model with the M3 Max.
The 14-inch MacBook Pro (which replaces the 13-inch MacBook Pro) will now have the option for the M3, M3 Pro, or M3 Max, while the 16-inch model gets the M3 Pro and an even more powerful M3 Max configuration. Across the board, these new M3 chips are built on the new 3nm technology, the same that's used in the new iPhone 15 models, only scaled up for the Mac. It's all about efficiency, with Apple claiming that the M3 chips provides the same performance at 30% less power.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
