Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Split Screen in Windows 11 Windows 11 Requirements Get Windows 11 for Free Screenshot on Windows 11 Uninstall Windows 11 Android Apps on Windows 11 Home Computing Features Microsoft is hindering Windows 11 on custom-built PCs By Jacob Roach Close I had an issue with my PC over the weekend. At some point, I noticed a bit of text in the bottom-right corner of my monitor that said: “System requirements not met. Go to Settings to learn more.” Deep in raids in Destiny 2, I ignored the message, assuming it was related to Wallpaper Engine or one of the dozen other apps running in the background on my PC at any given time.
On background Nowhere to go Bad to worse On Monday morning, I found out that this message comes from Microsoft on PCs running an unsupported Windows 11 install. But that’s the problem — my PC supports Windows 11.
Microsoft is hindering custom PCs with Windows 11, not only with an incessant insistence that builders carefully study Windows 11 ’s system requirements, but also from a lack of guidance on how custom PCs can use the new operating system.
‘Compact Mode’ can’t fix the Xbox app. Here’s what could Surprise: Windows 11 is doing much better than we thought This simple keyboard shortcut could save you when installing Windows 11 On background A TPM is usually soldered to the motherboard, but add-on modules are available, too.
Image used with permission by copyright holder There’s a storied history here, but here are the Cliff Notes: When Microsoft announced Windows 11, custom PC builders were sent into a panic when Microsoft’s PC Health Check app said their machines wouldn’t be supported. They were, but Microsoft didn’t clarify that. The main issue came down to the Trusted Platform Module (TPM) , which was normally disabled on off-the-shelf motherboards.
Microsoft responded with more guidance on the system requirements, and it looked like everything was peachy. However, in February, we learned that Microsoft was testing a watermark for unsupported Windows 11 installs. Now, that watermark is here, including on my supported PC.
The issue, once again, comes down to TPM. Motherboard vendors have updated their boards to ship with TPM enabled , but Microsoft is ignoring the large swath of custom, supported PCs that don’t have TPM turned on. And like a vicious cycle, Microsoft is back to telling users their machines aren’t supported without offering an ounce of guidance.
Nowhere to go Image used with permission by copyright holder Back to the watermark. It tells users to go to the Settings menu to learn more, which I did. That sends you to a webpage that explains unsupported Windows 11 installations , but doesn’t offer any solutions for PCs with the watermark. It basically reads, “sorry, you’re out of luck,” stretched across seven paragraphs.
The only useful link is to Microsoft’s PC Health Check app, which provides detailed solutions if your PC doesn’t support Windows 11 or isn’t configured properly. That’s another problem, though: You can’t use the PC Health Check app if you already have Windows 11 installed. So, if you’re seeing this message, which you can only see on Windows 11 , you can’t use the tool that Microsoft recommends to solve the problem.
Currently, the message is limited to Windows Insider builds, according to reports and my own experience. Microsoft hasn’t announced the watermark in any changelog, but its move to the Beta and Release channels for Windows Insiders suggests it could roll out to the general release soon enough.
It’s one thing that the watermark is annoying. It’s another thing that a user could have upgraded to Windows 11 months ago with supported hardware only to see this message and not know how to get rid of it. Even more frustrating, you can only downgrade to Windows 10 for 10 days after installing Windows 11 , giving custom PC builders an ultimatum between dealing with the watermark or doing a clean install of Windows 10.
Bad to worse Image used with permission by copyright holder I had a lot of criticism for Windows 11 at the time of its announcement, mainly aimed at the TPM requirement. Microsoft addressed a lot of the issues I had, but the new watermark is a regression. We’re back to square one, and that’s bad news for Microsoft.
Since launch, we’ve learned that Windows 11 adoption has slowed.
 It’s hard to know why adoption has slowed, but I’d wager there are plenty of PC builders out there who saw one of Microsoft’s several messages about unsupported installs with supported hardware and gave up. There are also murmurs of Microsoft testing ads within Windows 11’s File Explorer , only compounding issues for the OS.
Windows 11 is a genuinely great release.
 Unfortunately, Microsoft is failing the many custom PCs that run Windows with it. At the moment, custom PCs that run into an issue like I have are left without any announcements or guidance from Microsoft, as well as a watermark that’s as annoying as it is inaccurate.
Editors' Recommendations Windows 11 might finally reverse course on preinstalled applications A major Windows update just launched. Here’s what’s new I love Macs. But here are 5 reasons I keep coming back to Windows Windows 11 adoption is slowing, and we finally know why If you have an AMD GPU, stay away from the latest Windows Update Features Microsoft Microsoft Windows Windows 11 Computing Windows 12 is already upon us. Microsoft hasn't released the new operating system yet, or even formally announced it, but Microsoft's September 2023 event made it clear that recent updates to Windows 11 are laying the foundation for the next iteration of the OS.
A significant portion of the presentation focused on the upcoming AI assistant that is set to "revolutionize" the way you use Windows. A new update is now available for Windows 11 that adds Copilot to the OS. Copilot is said to be an everyday AI companion that provides assistance by uniquely integrating information from the internet, your work-related data, and your current PC tasks. It offers a range of AI features to numerous default apps by collecting data from your calendar, email, documents, and more to assist in quick text and email composition.
Computing I don't blame you if you're fed up with all of the AI talk. It started with ChatGPT, it moved to Bing Chat, and now you can't open up Apple News without a deluge of AI news. It's overwhelming. And now, Microsoft wants you to use AI as an assistant throughout all of Windows 11. No thanks.
Call me a cynic, but I pushed back. Bing Chat following me around Windows 11 didn't sound like a good time, but I swallowed my pride, decided to do my job as a tech journalist, and kindly asked what it could do at Microsoft's September 2023 event. And Windows Copilot blew me away.
Computing Microsoft's September event delivered a slew of exciting announcements. All things AI were a hot topic, ranging from the Microsoft Copilot to updates to Paint and Snipping Tool. Several new Surface products were also revealed, including the Surface Laptop Studio 2.
We were at the event and got all of the news firsthand. Here's everything that Microsoft unveiled as part of its September 2023 event.
A new category of computing Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
