Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing News More details leak about a modernized, modular Windows 12 By Fionna Agomuoh Close Microsoft hasn’t shared public details about the next major version of Windows, but more information is starting to leak out. This next version of Windows, which will presumably be called “ Windows 12 , is being developed as a more modular and modern operating system.
That report comes from Windows Central , which claims a source indicated that a new project is being worked on under the code name CorePC. This is intended to be the next generation of Windows Core OS, a long-developed concept that has never come to fruition as a finished product.
Microsoft Microsoft has long worked to create a Universal Windows Platform (UWP) that does not rely on compatibility with legacy features and applications, and can have a light OS that favors updates that are faster to install and have greater security. The brand has attempted such projects with systems including Windows 10X , however, that operating system was canceled in 2021, along with the Surface Neo device it was supposed to run on. Elements of the UI were carried over to Windows 11, but the larger concept seems to have been abandoned.
However, Windows Central has now learned that Microsoft is ready to try again with a fresh project, CorePC, which will shift away from trying to develop a product that will ship “on top of Windows Core OS for traditional PCs.” Instead, the company will focus on bringing “native compatibility for legacy Win32 applications on devices.” A major Windows update just launched. Here’s what’s new Intel may have accidentally leaked the release date for Windows 12 Windows 11 is turning into Windows 12 right in front of us The CorePC project is expecting to make a version of Windows that is “modular and customizable,” which will allow PCs to host different “editions” of Windows that feature their own tiers of support. That means different capabilities for different form factors and PCs. Microsoft has tried and failed at this many times over the years.
This report comes on the heels of rumors of preliminary specs for the consumer OS, Windows 12 , which is code-named “Next Valley.” The system is expected to be compatible with Intel’s 14th Gen Meteor Lake-S desktop, the Pluton coprocessor, TPM 2.0, and at least 8GB of RAM.
 Details suggest Microsoft has been working on the software since February 2022 and that a final version might roll out to the general public in the second half of 2024.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Notably, Microsoft also ended the waitlist program for Win32 apps in the Microsoft Store in late May 2022. It allows applications compatibility with the Microsoft Store, in particular those that run on C++, WinForms, WPF, MAUI, React, Rust, Flutter, and Java, — as long as they run on Windows.
CorePC will also reportedly have aspects similar to iPadOS or Android , where the read-only partitions are inaccessible to the user and third-party apps, allowing for greater security, according to the publication.
The new project also represents Microsoft’s effort to refashion Windows in accordance with its new artificial intelligence initiatives. This is a common theme from the brand recently in its introduction to AI. Applications such as Microsoft Teams and Bing Search (in the form of Bing Chat ) have similarly been revamped from the ground up. Some of the AI features to be included in CorePC are on-display analysis, starting projects from prompts, identifying images, and AI cut-and-paste.
With a prospective launch date as the next major version of the Windows client of 2024, CorePC has a lot of competitors, including Chromebooks and Windows via Project Latte, Windows Central also claims Microsoft is working on a version of the OS that is “silicon-optimized … in a way similar to that of Apple Silicon.” Editors' Recommendations Windows is just an application now I love Macs. But here are 5 reasons I keep coming back to Windows If you have an AMD GPU, stay away from the latest Windows Update The best Windows apps for 2023 I saw the AI future of Windows 11, and it blew me away Microsoft Microsoft Windows Tech News Windows 12 Computing Microsoft's September event delivered a slew of exciting announcements. All things AI were a hot topic, ranging from the Microsoft Copilot to updates to Paint and Snipping Tool. Several new Surface products were also revealed, including the Surface Laptop Studio 2.
We were at the event and got all of the news firsthand. Here's everything that Microsoft unveiled as part of its September 2023 event.
A new category of computing Computing If you've installed the latest Windows 11 update and you've been experiencing all sorts of issues ever since, you're not alone And if you're still yet to install it, it's probably best hold off on it for now. Many users have been reporting problems following the recent update, including crashes, slowdowns, and blue screens of death (BSOD). Gamers appear to be affected most of all, with some reporting stuttering in Starfield and Ratchet and Clank: Rift Apart.
Following the latest update released on Patch Tuesday, various reports of problems started pouring in across social media and Microsoft's Feedback Hub. Microsoft itself hasn't spoken up about this yet, but considering the number of reported issues, we could soon hear an official comment on the situation. If you've already installed the update and aren't experiencing problems, you have nothing to worry about. If you have installed and are encountering issues, it's best to revert to the previous version and reach out through the Feedback Hub.
Computing Keyboard shortcuts can speed up even the most mundane of Windows 10 tasks. Learning the best of them can make your PC experience faster, more efficient, and, in some cases, even more enjoyable.
These are the essential Windows 10 shortcuts that can make you feel more like a PC wizard. A master of the keys, so to speak.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
