Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Split Screen in Windows 11 Windows 11 Requirements Get Windows 11 for Free Screenshot on Windows 11 Uninstall Windows 11 Android Apps on Windows 11 Home Computing News New Windows 11 update adds ChatGPT-powered Bing AI to the taskbar By Monica J. White Close Microsoft has just unveiled the latest update to Windows 11 which has already started rolling out. There are plenty of changes on the horizon, including those involving the ChatGPT-based Bing AI search.
The new update lets Windows 11 users communicate with the AI-powered version of Bing right in their taskbar. The AI model itself also seems to have received an update that might make conversing with it less bizarre.
Microsoft Microsoft is really going all-in on the new AI-powered version of Bing.
 Not even a month after first unveiling the ChatGPT-based Bing search, Microsoft has now revealed that it’s integrating it further into its products, this time adding it to the Windows 11 search function.
“Soon hundreds of millions of Windows 11 users can get access to this incredible new technology to search, chat, answer questions, and generate content from right on their Windows taskbar,” said Panos Panay, Microsoft’s chief product officer.
GPT-4 Turbo is the biggest update since ChatGPT’s launch Boston Dynamics uses ChatGPT to create a robot tour guide If you have an AMD GPU, stay away from the latest Windows Update The attached screenshot shows us that you’ll no longer need to launch Microsoft Edge (which now has full Bing integration ) or your browser of choice to try out Bing’s new search capabilities. Instead, it appears that the full range of Bing’s functionalities has now made it into the Windows taskbar search.
Chances are that this will greatly increase the number of potential Bing users, because eventually, it may become available to every Windows 11 user. For the time being, the feature is still going to be available to those who are already part of the Bing preview. If you’re not, you can sign up to join the waitlist.
There’s more to love in this new update. Microsoft is introducing Phone Link for iOS users, and Android users will see improvements to the existing feature. Windows Studio Effects is also harnessing the power of AI to aid an updated range of features, including adjusting background blur and automatic framing. In addition, making calls through the Chat feature (integrated with Microsoft Teams ) is now easier, complete with a quick video preview.
If you’ve ever used TeamViewer to help a friend or a family member, or perhaps to receive technical support yourself, you may find that you soon won’t need the app. Microsoft has redesigned the Quick Help app, now letting users easily connect with someone else. When connected, users can share screens or even hand over full control of their device to the person on the other end, making tech support tasks easier.
Microsoft Widgets are also receiving a pretty major update that should make it easier to aggregate all the things you care the most about in a single screen. You’ll now be able to include Phone Link, news from Meta and Spotify, and Xbox Game Pass updates in your Widgets. Further updates include screen recording in Snipping Tool, adding tabs to Notepad, and enhanced touchscreen and accessibility features with support for Braille displays.
If you want to try out the new Windows Update, all you have to do is search for “Windows Update” in the taskbar and then click on “Check for updates.” You may have to wait if the update is not yet available to you — it will take some time for it to reach all users.
Circling back to Bing AI — there seems to have been an update that Microsoft didn’t mention in its announcement. Mikhail Parakhin, the head of Advertising and Web Services at Microsoft, said on Twitter that version 96 of Bing Chat is now rolling out to those who have access to it. The wording used in the reveal is pretty telling.
Starting now, the ChatGPT-powered chatbot will be more eager to respond — the update is significantly reducing the number of cases when Bing simply refused to reply for no reason. Parakhin also teases that we can expect “Reduced instances of hallucination in answers.” While the second part of the tweet sounds funny, it’s definitely a necessary update. Bing Chat was capable of holding some pretty strange conversations, including one where it proclaimed that it wants to be human.
 Let’s hope that the AI will be a little more chilled out in the new version of Bing Chat.
Editors' Recommendations The world responds to the creator of ChatGPT being fired by his own company A major Windows update just launched. Here’s what’s new OpenAI’s new tool can spot fake AI images, but there’s a catch Bing Chat just beat a security check to stop hackers and spammers ChatGPT: the latest news, controversies, and tips you need to know News Artificial Intelligence Microsoft Microsoft Windows Tech News Windows 11 Computing ChatGPT has just regained the ability to browse the internet to help you find information. That should (hopefully) help you get more accurate, up-to-date data right when you need it, rather than solely relying on the artificial intelligence (AI) chatbot’s rather outdated training data.
As well as giving straight-up answers to your questions based on info found online, ChatGPT developer OpenAI revealed that the tool will provide a link to its sources so you can check the facts yourself. If it turns out that ChatGPT was wrong or misleading, well, that’s just another one for the chatbot’s long list of missteps.
Computing OpenAI is rolling out new functionalities for ChatGPT that will allow prompts to be executed with images and voice directives in addition to text.
The AI brand announced on Monday that it will be making these new features available over the next two weeks to ChatGPT Plus and Enterprise users. The voice feature is available in iOS and Android in an opt-in capacity, while the images feature is available on all ChatGPT platforms. OpenAI notes it plans to expand the availability of the images and voice features beyond paid users after the staggered rollout.
Computing I don't blame you if you're fed up with all of the AI talk. It started with ChatGPT, it moved to Bing Chat, and now you can't open up Apple News without a deluge of AI news. It's overwhelming. And now, Microsoft wants you to use AI as an assistant throughout all of Windows 11. No thanks.
Call me a cynic, but I pushed back. Bing Chat following me around Windows 11 didn't sound like a good time, but I swallowed my pride, decided to do my job as a tech journalist, and kindly asked what it could do at Microsoft's September 2023 event. And Windows Copilot blew me away.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
