Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing News Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? This killer Black Friday deal on an RTX 3060 gaming laptop is still available By Luke Larsen Close The Asus ROG Zephyrus G14 is easily one of the best gaming laptops you can buy, and for Black Friday this year, it had never been cheaper.
The Black Friday deal in question is for an RTX 3060 configuration from Best Buy — and somewhat shockingly, it remains available today. This isn’t the latest model (don’t worry, I’ll get to that), but it’s nevertheless the best Black Friday gaming laptop deal of the year. It uses a year-old Ryzen 7 5800HS processor, but that’s not going to hold your frame rates back when you have the RTX 3060 onboard.
Image used with permission by copyright holder It’s incredible to see a laptop this premium and performant come in well under $1,000, a whopping $500 off its retail price.
Even better, Best Buy is also selling the 2022 model , which comes with the latest Ryzen 9 6900HS processor and Radeon RX 6800S GPU — both from AMD. This configuration is $500 more expensive, but it comes with a lot of benefits over the older model. It’s more powerful, yes. But it also has a higher-resolution 1600p screen, a webcam (because the older one doesn’t), and twice the storage. Definitely worth the extra money if you’ve got it, especially since it’s $500 off the original price too.
The new ROG Zephyrus gaming laptops look like absolute stunners The ROG Zephyrus G14 infuriates me, but it’s still my favorite gaming laptop of 2022 Best Buy Black Friday deals: TVs, laptops and air fryers Regardless of which Zephyrus G14 you opt for , what you’re getting is a revolutionary gaming laptop.
 It was the first 14-inch gaming laptop when it launched — sparking a trend toward even smaller and more compact gaming laptops.
 Moving in that direction can be dangerous, especially since performance is paramount on a gaming laptop.
Image used with permission by copyright holder But Asus did it the right way. The Zephyrus G14 is amazingly powerful for how small a system it is — something never thought to be possible before. It’s only 0.78 inch thick, and the tiny footprint makes it an excellent traveling device. It slides into a backpack easily and will even fit on seat trays in airplanes. The toned-down aesthetic makes it ideal for those situations as well.
Our staff writer Jacob Roach bought the Zephyrus G14 earlier this year, and has been gushing about it ever since. Here’s his take on it: “The Zephyrus G14 changed how I view gaming laptops , and that’s not an exaggeration. Most gaming laptops are big, bulky, and hot, and you have to sacrifice performance to find anything remotely portable. Not with the Zephyrus G14, though. At 14 inches and with plenty of power under the hood, I can comfortably travel with it in my backpack and set it up on my coffee table for hours-long gaming sessions.
“It’s not the only 14-inch gaming laptop on the market. For its part, the Razer Blade 14 might be an even better option. But the price and configuration of the Zephyrus G14 makes it feel like a complete package. I used to avoid using a gaming laptop at all costs, but after picking up the Zephyrus G14, I use it nearly every day.” That’s quite an endorsement, right? Black Friday deals are rarely on products that we can wholeheartedly vouch for, so count this as an exception. This one’s way too good to pass up.
Editors' Recommendations ROG Flow X13 (2023) vs. ROG Zephyrus G14 (2023): compact gaming laptops The ROG Zephyrus G14 just got way better at CES 2023 This RTX 3070 gaming laptop deal for $1,000 officially wins Cyber Monday 2-in-1 laptop Black Friday deals: Dell, HP and Microsoft from $99 Don’t get tricked by bad MacBook deals for Black Friday. Buy these instead Black Friday Laptops PC Gaming Tech News Computing With the launch of the new AMD Ryzen 6000-series laptop processors just around the corner, more and more benchmark results are popping up, giving us a better idea about the performance of Zen 3+ CPUs, often called AMD Rembrandt.
This time, an upcoming AMD duo has been benchmarked: The Ryzen 9 6900HS processor alongside Radeon RX 6800S graphics. The pair actually managed to outperform the Intel Core i9-12900H and the Nvidia GeForce RTX 3080 in its laptop version.
Computing Asus has announced an upgrade to its ROG Zephyrus G14 gaming laptop at CES 2022, as well as unveiling the ​​larger G15 machine and the Zephyrus Duo 16, the latest addition to Asus' lineup of dual-screen laptops.
The laptops come equipped with the latest components and improved display technology, with the Zephyrus G14 in particular being the first to feature the new AMD Radeon RX 6800S mobile GPU.
ROG Zephyrus G14 Computing Gaming laptops are bound to be a hot item as part of the best Cyber Monday deals. Thanks to how difficult it is to buy a graphics card, gaming laptops are the cheapest and easiest way to get into modern PC gaming. The best Cyber Monday gaming laptop deals are sure to include some of the best options available, including the Razer Blade 14, Asus ROG Strix G15, Lenovo Legion 5 Pro, and more.
It's also worth checking out the best Cyber Monday laptop deals as well to get a wider view of what's available.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
