Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best Amazon Cyber Monday deals for 2022 By Noah McGraw Close Image used with permission by copyright holder Cyber Monday is in the rear view, but there are still a lot of strangler deals hanging on. If you haven’t checked everything off your shopping list, consider this your last call to snap up some of the amazing Cyber Monday deals below. We already saw a ton of Amazon Cyber Monday deals sell out fast, so if you like the look of any of the below deals, make sure to add them to your basket and check out now. With deals on everything from cheap smart home devices to expensive gaming laptops, how do you know where to start? We’ve rounded up the best of the best right here, but remember — this is the last major sales event of the year, so to get your goodies in time for the holidays, make sure you order today.
Echo Dot (3rd Gen) — $15, was $40 Keurig K-Mini — $50, was $100 iRobot Roomba 694 — $179, was $274 Apple AirPods Pro 2 — $200, were $249 Apple Watch SE — $229, was $249 Insignia 50-inch F30 Series 4K TV — $240, was $400 Apple 10.2-inch iPad (2021) — $270, was $329 Lenovo IdeaPad Flex 5i Chromebook — $330, was $430 Sony WH-1000XM5 Headphones — $348, were $399 Asus TUF 15-inch Gaming Laptop — $590, was $650 Apple Watch Ultra — $739, was $799 Apple MacBook Air (2020) — $799, was $999 Microsoft Surface Laptop 5 — $1,100, was $1,300 Echo Dot (3rd Gen) — $15, was $40 Image used with permission by copyright holder The Amazon Echo Dot is about as basic as you can get for a smart home devices, but it’s a good place to start. You communicate with Alexa entirely through voice commands, but that doesn’t limit the voice assistant’s capabilities much. The Echo Dot is also a great addition to your smart home suite if you already have other hubs. Just spread them around the house so you can always reach Alexa. If you need a smart home device with more capabilities, for instance a visual display, there are other Cyber Monday Amazon Echo deals happening this weekend too.
Keurig K-Mini — $50, was $100 Image used with permission by copyright holder If you’re a no-frills coffee drinker, and you like to stick to one cup in the morning, then take advantage of Cyber Monday Keurig deals.
 Keurig is about the simplest way to get a single cup of coffee, and the K-Mini is the epitome of that. As Keurig is famous for, it only makes one cup at a time, and you have to refill the water reservoir between each brew. You can select several different sizes for your brew, so you can match your favorite coffee mug. This model is ridiculously cheap during the Amazon Cyber Monday deals, so if you’ve ever considered a Keurig, this is your time to try one.
iRobot Roomba 694 — $179, was $274 iRobot The Roomba 694 is a great starter robot vacuum. You’ll notice right away how much you don’t miss vacuuming. The 694 is a buy-and-forget type of device. It recharges itself, and uses pattern recognition to figure out the optimal route for cleaning your house. It remembers specific dirty areas and returns there more frequently. It runs great on hard floors and carpet. All you’ll have to do is dump it out every so often. If you want to monitor it even less, you can check out other models in the Cyber Monday Robot Vacuum deals that have features like a home base trash receptor.
Apple AirPods Pro 2 — $200, were $249 Simon Cohen / Digital Trends AirPods Pro 2 are Apple’s newest and best earbuds. They boast several improvements over the already fantastic AirPods Pro, the biggest of which is in sound quality. They have Apple’s new H2 chip in them, so active noise-cancelling is smarter and stronger than ever before. Apple has slightly adjusted the pressure relief holes on the outside, so they’re a bit more comfortable and you can wear them for longer. It also boosted the battery life, so you get up to six hours of uninterrupted music before needing to use the charging case. There are, of course, several other models of AirPods, but since Cyber Monday AirPods deals are going on right now, why not go for the best? Apple Watch SE — $229, was $249 Andy Boxall/Digital Trends The Apple Watch SE is your best option for a mid-price smartwatch. It has most of the capabilities of the regular mainline Apple Watches, including great iPhone connectivity, fitness tracking, and GPS, but at a lower price point. The biggest thing you miss out on is the always-on screen, so you’ll have to let the watch know when you want to check your steps. Some of the other Apple Watch models are on sale during the Cyber Monday Apple Watch deals , but this is one of the cheapest options.
Insignia 50-inch F30 Series 4K TV — $240, was $400 Best Buy If you just need a bare-bones, cheap TV, Cyber Monday TV deals are the time to buy one. Getting a fairly large 4K TV for under $300 is nothing to turn up your nose at. The Insignia F30 isn’t entirely bare-bones either. It’s equipped with Fire TV, so you can stream all your favorite shows straight to the TV. It can upscale content into 4K, and supports HDR 10 video, so all of your content will look great, from blockbusters to YouTube videos. This is just one of the many Amazon products available in the Amazon Cyber Monday deals.
Apple 10.2-inch iPad (2021) — $270, was $329 Image used with permission by copyright holder The 9th-Gen 10.2-inch iPad is a beautiful tablet, and it’s this cheap only because it’s a few years old now. It has powerful internal components for a tablet, running on the same chip that powered the iPhone 11. It’s screen is the famous Apple Retina display with True Tone, so it looks crisp and produces deep colors. It has an 8MP camera on the back and an even more powerful 12MP front-facing camera, so you’ll look great on the family FaceTimes. A few other models are available in the Cyber Monday iPad deals , so make sure to browse around.
Lenovo IdeaPad Flex 5i Chromebook — $330, was $430 Image used with permission by copyright holder Cyber Monday laptop deals provide a great chance to upgrade your daily computer. There are tons of Lenovo laptops on sale during Cyber Monday Chromebook deals , including some great 2-in-1s. The IdeaPad Flex 5i is the Chromebook version of Lenovo’s average consumer line of laptops. It has the build quality you’d expect from Lenovo, with a comfortable keypad and a solid feel overall. It leans heavier into its tablet strengths than its laptop ones, with a ChromeOS operating system and a Full HD touchscreen. It’s great for students and light computer users who want something flexible and portable.
Sony WH-1000XM5 Headphones — $348, were $399 Simon Cohen / Digital Trends The Sony WH-1000XM5s are the best headphones on the market today. What else needs to be said? Every year, this line of Sony headphones takes the cake in our rankings. They have great sound quality and fantastic noise-canceling. The newest model has redesigned the top headband, but it’s still comfortable and lightweight. Audiophiles and casual users will both love these headphones, especially since they’re included in the Cyber Monday headphone deals and get a nice price cut.
Asus TUF 15-inch Gaming Laptop — $590, was $650 Image used with permission by copyright holder Scouring Cyber Monday gaming laptop deals so you can upgrade your rig? The Asus TUF 15-inch gaming laptop is a great starting point. It’s not going to blow you out of the water when you check out a modern AAA game, but it will be a huge boost over a standard laptop. It runs on an Intel Core i5 CPU and an Nvidia GeForce GTX 1650 GPU with 8GB of RAM. It has a nice 1080p monitor with an impressive refresh rate of 144Hz. It’s also nice and tough, so it won’t get bricked if it gets knocked around a bit.
Apple Watch Ultra — $739, was $799 Image used with permission by copyright holder The Apple Watch Ultra is the adventurer’s smartwatch. The average user might find some of its features totally pointless, but if you’re the kind of person who takes vacation time to climb mountains, this is the smartwatch for you. It tracks several health metrics at all times, including heart rate, blood oxygen levels, and electrocardiogram. It functions deep underwater, at freezing temperatures, and is virtually immune to scratching. Its GPS system is a huge upgrade over the other Apple Watches, so it’s incredibly accurate.
Apple MacBook Air (2020) — $799, was $999 Apple MacBooks are usually just out of the standard buyer’s price range, so they all get nabbed up during Cyber Monday MacBook deals.
 This MacBook Air coms with the M1 chip and 8GB of RAM, so it’s fairly powerful. It has an all-day battery life, so it’s great for students and people who travel for work. Amazon Cyber Monday deals feature a few different MacBooks, so if you’re looking for something beefier than the iPad Air, make sure to browse around.
Microsoft Surface Laptop 5 — $1,100, was $1,300 Microsoft The Microsoft Surface line of tablets brought on a revolution in 2-in-1 laptop technology. The Surface Laptop 5 takes what Microsoft learned with the mainline Surface and brings it back into a standard laptop. It has pretty powerful internal components, with a 12th-Gen Intel Core i7 CPU and the option for 8GB or 16GB of RAM. It’s has a nice and big 15-inch touchscreen with 2496 x 1664 resolution, so it looks great and the touchscreen is accurate. If you’ve ever thought about grabbing a Surface Laptop, don’t sleep on Amazon Cyber Monday deals.
Editors' Recommendations DJI Mini 3 Pro Black Friday deal saves you $110 on the drone The 3 best Alienware gaming PC Black Friday deals available now This is hands-down the best Nintendo Switch Black Friday deal The best early Keurig Black Friday deals — from $35 Best Black Friday AirPods Deals: Get Apple’s earbuds for $59 Apple Smart Home Amazon Apple Black Friday Mobile There's no better time to take advantage of iPad deals than on Black Friday, as the discounts are the largest that they could be from the various retailers. Whether you're on a tight budget and are hoping to get the entry-level 10.2-inch Apple iPad for even cheaper than usual, or you're planning to make a huge investment on the powerful Apple iPad Pro, you won't be disappointed by this year's Black Friday deals. So that you can complete your purchase before stocks run out, we've rounded up the top offers that are available for the shopping holiday -- if you see a bargain that you like, push through with the transaction as soon as possible.
Best 10.2-inch iPad Black Friday deals The 10.2-inch Apple iPad, which includes the seventh to the ninth generations of the entry-level Apple iPad, remains one of the cheapest ways to jump into the iPad experience. They're not the latest models available, but they're still very capable devices because they can be upgraded to iPadOS 17, which is the newest version of Apple's operating system for tablets. If you want to get a 10.2-inch iPad for an even more affordable price, you may want to consider a refurbished one, especially since it would come with a return guarantee if it stops working properly.
Mobile If you've been waiting to grab a smartwatch for yourself or a family member, Black Friday deals have presented the perfect opportunity. With big savings out there on some of the best smartwatches, you can get the watch you want while still saving plenty of cash in the meantime. With many options out there, we've picked out the very best Black Friday smartwatch deals. There are some great brands around including those from Apple, Fitbit, Garmin, and also Samsung Galaxy Watches too. We've highlighted them all so let's get straight into what's available.
Best Fitbit Black Friday deals For many people, Fitbit is the name to home in on when it comes to smartwatches and fitness trackers. Responsible for some of the best fitness trackers, Fitbit develops devices like the Fitbit Sense 2 which are more like conventional smartwatches, as well as pseudo smartwatches/fitness trackers like the Fitbit Charge 6. The Fitbit ecosystem is easy to get involved in providing a simple to use interface and all the key information you could need like steps taken, calories burned, and how many flights of stairs you've climbed. Generally more affordable than full smartwatches, they're a great introduction to the smart wearable world, and Fitbit Black Friday deals have brought the price down even more.
Mobile Apple makes one of the best smartwatches on available, but it comes with the Apple price tag. The Apple Watch is not cheap, but Black Friday deals can cut the price a bit. We've pulled our favorite Black Friday smartwatch deals on the most recent Apple Watch releases: SE, Series 9 and Ultra. The bottom of this list includes some deals on older models, too. Almost everything comes from Amazon Black Friday deals, so if you're looking for Apple discounts, start there. These are all available right now, even though Black Friday is still a ways away.
Best Apple Watch SE Black Friday deals The Apple Watch SE is Apple's budget-friendly smartwatch option. If all you need in a smartwatch is health stats and some basic phone integration (and you need to stick with Apple), the SE is your best bet. The Apple Watch SE 2 is one of our favorite options, and we don't have much bad to say about it. If you're looking for something cheap and don't mind shopping beyond Apple, Fitbit Black Friday deals are taking off right now, and Fitbit offers similar functionality as the Apple Watch SE. Below you'll find some SE options with and without GPS, and both 44mm and 40mm.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
