Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Best Cyber Monday Tablet Deals: iPad, Amazon Fire, Samsung Galaxy Tab By Noah McGraw Close Image used with permission by copyright holder Cyber Monday may be crossed out on our calendars, but the deals aren’t completely over. We’re still seeing Cyber Monday tablets deals from all major tech dealers. There’s a great variety for them too, from cheaper tablets like the Amazon Fire, to high end, premium devices like the newest Apple iPad. This might be your last chance to grab crazy Cyber Monday deals , so put the best device you can find in your shopping cart and click “checkout” before the sales event is over.
Best Cyber Monday Tablet Deals More Cyber Monday Tablet Deals Best Cyber Monday Tablet Deals Amazon Fire 7 — $40, was $60 Amazon If you want what’s arguably the cheapest tablet that’s still worth your money, you want a Fire tablet. The Amazon Fire 7 is the cheapest of Amazon’s cheap tablets. It’s not going to set the world on fire in terms of performance or display quality, but it gives you easy access to tons of apps, you can watch videos and browse the web on it, and — of course — it’s fine for reading books and magazines. It’s not a bad little device to consider getting if you have a Prime account, as it’ll let you take full advantage of your membership benefits. If you can up your budget just a bit, though, then the Fire HD 8 might be a better buy.
Amazon Fire HD 10 — $75, was $150 Image used with permission by copyright holder If the Fire HD 8 is a little too small, then look to its slightly larger cousin: the Fire HD 10.
 A 10.1-inch screen means there’s a lot more to see here, and those two extra inches make a noticeable difference in usability. It’s the perfect smart home control center if you use Amazon’s Alexa a lot, and the faster processor should mean it’ll handle games better than its smaller siblings. There’s also a split-screen mode in FireOS now, so you can actually take advantage of the larger display. It’s not going to be the equal of something like an iPad or Galaxy Tab, but if your needs are modest and the lack of Google’s Play Store doesn’t bother you, then this is probably the best of the Cyber Monday tablet deals you can get for less than $100.
Apple iPad (2021) — $270, was $329 The iPad is still the king of tablets, and while it’s not one of the brand’s high-end models (or even the newest), the 2021 Apple iPad is the tablet to buy if you don’t want to spend more than $300. This is the last-gen model, sporting a 10.2-inch display with larger bezels than we’d like, but the performance is great, it’s a good size for an everyday tablet, and the price is right. This 9th-gen model saw some nice upgrades from the previous generation, with its base storage being boosted to 64GB and the front-facing camera getting a complete overhaul. If you want an Apple tablet for less than $300, Cyber Monday iPad deals don’t get any better than this.
Apple iPad Mini (2021) — $400, was $499 Adam Doud / Digital Trends It’s almost criminal how overlooked the iPad Mini is. Apple’s compact tablet is really a fantastic little device, and the Apple iPad Mini 2021 punches well above its weight in regard to performance. With an 8.3-inch display (a slight but noticeable increase over previous models), it’s big enough for most things you want to do on a tablet, while still being small enough to be easily portable. Its A15 Bionic chipset provides plenty of muscle for running apps and mobile games, and the speakers are also surprisingly good, making this iPad a capable on-the-go multimedia device.
Microsoft Surface Pro 7+ — $600, was $930 Image used with permission by copyright holder The Microsoft Surface Pro 7+ is a fine tablet, and one that can serve as a handy 2-in-1 laptop with its excellent 12.3-inch PixelSense touchscreen and solid PC hardware. This one’s equipped with an 11th-generation Intel Core i3 processor, 8GB of RAM , and a 128GB SSD. As a two-in-one device, it quickly transforms into a laptop with the included Type Cover keyboard that also protects the tablet’s display when folded up. The two-in-one device is just 7mm thin, so it’s easy to carry with you when you’re on the go, and Microsoft promises up to 13 hours of battery life on a single charge. The Microsoft Surface Pro 7 also comes with a pair of USB-C ports, so you can connect it to accessories such as displays and docking stations while also charging your other devices.
Samsung Galaxy Tab S8+ — $750, was $980 Samsung Galaxy Tab S8 Plus Adam Doud/Digital Trends In our in-depth review, we stated that the Samsung Galaxy Tab S8+ is the best Android tablet for the money. That should come as no huge surprise, considering that this tablet comes from the top Android smartphone brand. It sports a lovely 12.4-inch display with great speakers, making this a fine tablet for entertainment, but its powerful hardware also makes it a portable powerhouse for work and creativity. It includes the S Pen stylus too, which saves you the additional expense of having to buy it separately, and with 256GB of onboard storage, you’ve got plenty of room for your apps and file library.
Apple iPad Pro 12.9 (2022) — $999, was $1,099 Joe Maring/Digital Trends / Digital Trends Want to go a bit bigger? Perhaps you plan to put your tablet through its paces as a laptop. In that case, it’s worth sizing up to the 12.9-inch iPad Pro, which was updated in 2022 alongside the 11-inch model. With the powerful M2 chip and 128GB of storage, you’re good to go for just about any task you’d need to do on a tablet or even a MacBook, while still having all the portability and versatility that you get with a tablet. The 12.9-inch 2732 x 2048 Retina display looks gorgeous no matter what you’re doing, be it work or entertainment, and the M2 chip’s 10 graphical processing cores mean this thing can effortlessly handle mobile games, too. Whatever you need a tablet to do, the 12.9-inch iPad Pro can do it, and then some.
More Cyber Monday Tablet Deals Editors' Recommendations This is hands-down the best Nintendo Switch Black Friday deal Best Black Friday smartwatch deals: Apple, Samsung, Garmin, and more 75 best Amazon Black Friday deals on laptops, TVs, Apple, and more Best Chromebook Black Friday deals on HP, Lenovo, and more Best Black Friday laptop deals: Get a new workhorse from $129 Mobile Black Friday Audio / Video Amazon's Fire TV is one of the most popular streaming platforms, and it's available as a built-in operating system in the retailer's own TVs or as a replacement through the brand's streaming devices. If you're interested, you shouldn't miss Amazon Black Friday deals, as there's huge discounts that are available for the shopping holiday. Whether you're planning to buy a new TV, or you want to access the platform on your current TV, there's an offer out there for you -- but you have to hurry because we're not sure how long stocks will last.
Best Fire TV Black Friday deals The simplest way to get Fire TV is to buy a TV that's powered by the platform, and Amazon has its own line of TVs that ships with the operating system -- through there are other brands that also load their TVs with it. You'll be able to access all of the popular streaming services such as Amazon Prime Video and Netflix, and you can use voice commands for functions such as controlling playback and searching for content through Amazon's Alexa. The deals below include options at various sizes, including 55-inch TV Black Friday deals, 65-inch TV Black Friday deals, 70-inch TV Black Friday deals and 32-inch TV Black Friday deals. You have to act fast if you've got an eye on any of these Amazon Fire TV Black Friday deals though, as they may expire at any moment.
Audio / Video As far as TVs go, 75-inches is the sweet spot for most -- big enough to cover a living room wall with some great viewing angles, but not so expensive that it's going to empty your wallet with inordinate costs, either. But at full price, 75-inch TVs can still be somewhat expensive, especially depending on the brand you choose. Except during Black Friday and Cyber Week, one of the best times of the year to capitalize on excellent deals.
Right now, a ton of early Black Friday deals are going live, across a host of retailers, and on a wide variety of goods and electronics. So, here we are, in the ideal time of the year to nab an excellent 75-inch TV deal, but where do you start? We've gone ahead and gathered up some of the best Black Friday TV deals available right now, just to make things a bit simpler for everybody. These cover some of the best QLED TV Black Friday deals and one of the best OLED TV Black Friday deals.
Audio / Video Some of the best Black Friday deals currently available are for 70-inch TVs. We've scoured the internet and found the best 70-inch TV Black Friday deals that are underway at the moment. Many of these offers include the best TV brands so not only are you getting a huge TV, but you're getting great quality too. We've looked at both budget friendly TVs as well as high-end premium panels for anyone seeking one of the best TVs. If you want to know all about the best 70-inch TV deals going on at the moment, keep reading while we take you through everything including one particularly awesome highlight.
Best 70-inch TV Black Friday deal Insignia 70-inch F30 Series 4K TV -- $400, $600 If you've figured out what size TV will fit well in your home and you know you can go big, you don't have to spend a fortune to do so. That's where the Insignia 70-inch F30 Series 4K TV is so tempting. It has all the essentials you could need. Besides being a huge 4K TV, it has HDR support so you can enjoy a wide range of color details and sharper contrasts. That means brighter whites and deeper blacks. Being an LED-backlit LCD screen, you also get a brighter image as needed. It also supports HDMI ARC and HDMI eARC so you can hook up a compatible soundbar or AV receiver if you want superior sound. It won't be immediately essential as there's DTS Studio Sound built-in to provide you with superior audio quality than regular TVs in this price range.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
