Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Best Cyber Monday TV Deals: QLED, OLED and 8K TV By Noah McGraw Close Image used with permission by copyright holder Cyber Monday is over, but retailers still have extra stock they need to unload. Some fantastic Cyber Monday deals are still sticking around after the event. These are the best Cyber Monday TV deals you can still shop, including some big price cuts from some great brands. It’s not too late to grab a massive OLED TV or a tiny cheapo model.
Best Cyber Monday TV Deals Cyber Monday TV Deals Tips More Cyber Monday TV Deals Best Cyber Monday TV Deals Insignia 24-inch F20 Series HD Fire TV — $80, was $170 Image used with permission by copyright holder If all you need is a smaller cheap TV for a bedroom, playroom, or your kitchen, this 24-inch Insignia F20 Series television should fit the bit. Although it’s only a 720p HD TV, it’s still internet-connected, and its Fire TV software lets you enjoy Netflix, Prime Video, Hulu, Disney+, and other top streaming platforms. And, despite costing less than a Benjamin, it comes with a voice remote and built-in Amazon Alexa, just like many bigger and more expensive Fire TVs.
Insignia 50-inch F30 Series 4K Fire TV — $240, was $400 Image used with permission by copyright holder Insignia has your 4K needs covered, too, with the F30 Series TVs offering one of the best values to be found today in the UHD television market. This one’s also a Fire TV, covering all your streaming needs while also giving you Amazon’s Alexa voice assistant (controlled via the included voice remote). It supports HDR10, so while it lacks Dolby Vision, it still offers some support for HDR TV content which is nice to see on such a cheap TV. At 50 inches, it’s a good size for play rooms, smaller living rooms, or larger bedrooms.
Hisense 70-inch A6G Series 4K Android TV — $450, was $510 Image used with permission by copyright holder Hisense is another high-value name in the home theater space, and the A6G Series Android TV has a lot to offer. For starters, this one measures 70 inches diagonally, so if you want a bigger TV than most, this is one of the best Cyber Monday TV deals you’ll find for less than $500. It also supports Dolby Vision (something most cheap TVs sadly lack) along with HDR and HDR10, so you’re good to go with the best HDR formats for enjoying modern content with a wider color spectrum. The Android TV smart OS even has Google Assistant and Chromecast built in, giving you hands-free control with the voice remote and allowing you to cast content to the TV right from your phone or tablet.
TCL 75-inch 4-Series 4K Roku TV — $530, was $800 Image used with permission by copyright holder TCL is one of the best TV brands for the money and makes some great Roku TVs. Roku is perhaps the most highly favored smart TV platform among streamers, thanks to its sheer reliability and simplicity. The TCL 4-Series Roku TV embodies that, offering a no-nonsense user experience in a TV that gives you everything you need and nothing you don’t (and at a great price). At 75 inches, this is a great big-screen home theater TV that’s much larger than the dent it’ll put in your wallet, with Cyber Monday TV deals knocking it well below its usual price.
TCL 65-inch Class 5-Series 4K QLED Roku TV — $550, was $700 Image used with permission by copyright holder The TCL 5-Series represents a middle ground between its cheaper 4-Series and more expensive 6-Series TVs, and in recent years, the 5-Series models have featured quantum-dot displays. This new S555 model was just released and has a few improvements over its predecessor, the S546. For starters, TCL returned to the Roku TV interface, which many prefer over the Google TV OS that the 2021 model used. This QLED TV also comes with the HDR Pro Pack for support for all the major HDR formats including Dolby Vision, and local dimming zones improve the contrast. Gamers will also appreciate the fact that this updated 5-Series TV now has four HDMI 2.1 inputs as well as AMD FreeSync for smoother gaming.
Sony 65-inch X75K 4K Google TV — $580, was $700 Image used with permission by copyright holder Sony is a top TV brand in the same league as the likes of LG and Samsung, but it offers some nice sets for those on a budget, too. Among its more affordable offerings is the X75K. This 4K Google TV utilizes Sony’s 4K Processor X1, which not only produces a crisp, color-accurate UHD picture but can also upscale your older non-4K content so that it won’t look stretched out, pixelated, or blurry on a big 4K panel like this (upscaling is one of Sony’s strong suits, in fact). Google Assist and Amazon Alexa voice assistants are both built in, so you get hands-free control and can easily sync the TV with a wider smart home system.
Samsung 65-inch Q70A Series 4K QLED Tizen TV — $900, was $1,100 Image used with permission by copyright holder Samsung is the brand that actually created quantum-dot LED technology, so if you want a good QLED TV, it’s hard to go wrong with this one — especially for less than a grand. The Samsung Q70A features a smooth 120Hz refresh rate, offering better motion handling than the 60Hz panels you usually see on 4K TVs. That’s good for gaming as well, and features like AMD FreeSync, Super Ultrawide Gameview, and the Samsung Gamebar make it an even more attractive TV for gamers. Quantum HDR with support for HDR10 and HDR10+ has you covered for high dynamic range as well, and while we’d like to see Dolby Vision, it’s hard to complain when Cyber Monday TV deals make it possible to score a Samsung QLED TV for less than $1,000.
Samsung 75-inch Q60B 4K QLED Tizen TV — $998, was $1,300 Image used with permission by copyright holder If you want a Samsung QLED TV but want to go a bit bigger (without having to dip too much further into your pockets), this 75-inch Samsung Q60B should fit the bill. It still lacks Dolby Vision support, but you get HDR10, HDR10+, and Hybrid Log-Gamma, which is sufficient for most people. Samsung’s Tizen smart TV platform puts all of your favorite streaming apps and content libraries at your fingertips, with the added benefit of having both Google Assistant and Amazon Alexa integrated into the OS. OTS Lite and Q-Symphony deliver good audio as well, but with HDMI-ARC support, you can easily hook up a soundbar with a single cable for an even more immersive sound experience.
Samsung 55-inch The Frame QLED 4K Tizen TV — $1,000, was $1,500 Image used with permission by copyright holder Samsung’s TV innovations aren’t just limited to panel technologies. The Frame QLED TV puts a new spin on the flat-screen television design itself, the result being a TV that blends right into your home’s decor. When not in use, The Frame’s QLED panel simulates a canvas, displaying a slideshow of artwork of your choosing. When it’s time to kick back with some gaming or streaming, The Frame works like any other TV, offering a vibrant and color-accurate edge-to-edge quantum-dot picture. It also has a refresh rate of 120Hz, which is great to see, along with four HDMI 2.1 ports so it’s good to go for gaming. Samsung’s The Frame is truly a QLED TV that can just about do it all while looking great — in more ways than one.
LG 55-inch C2 Series 4K OLED WebOS TV — $1,300, was $1,600 Dan Baker/Digital Trends As Samsung pioneered QLED panels, LG is the brand behind OLED TV technology. OLED panels are quite different from more common LED and QLED panels; instead of backlighting, OLED TVs have self-lit pixels. This allows televisions like the LG C2 OLED TV to deliver great color accuracy and unparalleled contrast, and while they’re still expensive, you don’t have to spend quite as much as you did a few years ago. The LG C2 is not only a great television for cinephiles thanks to Dolby Vision and a 120Hz refresh rate, it’s also a solid choice for gaming. It’s got four HDMI 2.1 ports, Nvidia G-Sync and AMD FreeSync, and LG’s automatic Game Optimizer, making it a true multimedia TV.
Cyber Monday TV Deals Tips The most important thing to consider when shopping for a TV is the size of the television, frame included. You need to know your limit (and stick to it). After all, the last thing you want to do is shell out for new TV only to find it won’t fit through the door, let alone on the wall. Having 60 inches to spare doesn’t mean you can steam in with a 60-inch 4K TV. This measurement is just the size of the screen, which is often enclosed in a frame that adds an extra inch or two to each side. So consult the dimensions.
Once you’ve set a realistic limit, it’s time to start considering the features you need. There’s a lot to choose from, ranging from Roku’s beloved Roku OS smart software on TCL’s 4K TVs to Google Assistant on most Sony and Vizio models. We suggest taking a long think about the tools that will make your life easier. If you hate scrolling and would rather have the option to tell your television what to do, opt for a Sony or Vizio. However, if you’re after the largest selection of streaming services in town, it’s best to go with a TCL.
What size TV do I need? Don’t fall into the trap of rushing into a deal on a television that’s far too large to fit into the space you have available. Instead, take a second before you start your search to measure the height, width, and depth of your desired location. Make a note of everything, too, as you’re going to compare them to the dimensions of the television itself — as well as the width of the stand if you’re planning on placing it on a console table — to make sure it will fit.
Done? Now use a viewing distance calculator to work out the ideal screen size for how far away you’re going to be sitting. As soon as you have this measurement, compare it to the space available, and decide on a suitable size. For instance, if the calculator recommends an 80-inch display and you only have enough space for a 55-inch, stop there. But if you were eyeing a 50-inch and the calculator suggests a 65-inch, it’s probably best to upsize.
While uncommon, some TVs have speakers either side that require extra space.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Remember what we said earlier, though — it isn’t all about screen size. You need to consider the entire footprint of the television to determine whether it will fit into the place you have in mind. It’s not uncommon to find a TV that measures in at 65 inches but has a 60-inch screen at the center. It all depends on how wide the bezel surrounding the display is and whether there are any design features that take up additional living room real estate.
Do I need an OLED TV or a QLED TV? QLED TV and OLED TV are two terms thrown around a lot, but what do they mean? Put simply, they’re the name of two different screen technologies that are a step up from the LED display on your current HDTV or 4K TV. Both deliver superior brightness, more accurate color reproduction, and deeper black levels (thus greater detail), but which do you need if a regular LED 4K TV — which will go down a treat for most of us — just won’t cut it for you? In a nutshell, QLED is the better all-rounder excelling in natural light — so if you’re looking for something to watch a movie, a show, or even play a game in broad daylight with the drapes open, opt for one of Hisense or Samsung’s QLEDs. For everyone else, we’d suggest an LG or Sony OLED (although, it’s the latter that delivers the best home viewing experience). They have a better viewing angle, can reach a more obsidian-like black level, and consume less power.
What is HDR, and do I need it? Short for High-Dynamic Range , HDR delivers a higher level of contrast between light and dark, while utilizing a wider selection of colors, to create a much more realistic image. This may not sound like the be all and end all, but it is — representing a significant step up from standard 4K Ultra HD. So if you’re buying a new television in 2020, you’re going to definitely want to make sure it has HDR on board in the form of HLG , Dolby Vision or HDR10.
More Cyber Monday TV Deals Live Editors' Recommendations The 3 best Alienware gaming PC Black Friday deals available now This is hands-down the best Nintendo Switch Black Friday deal Best Amazon Echo Black Friday deals: Echo Pop, Echo Show 8, and more Best Black Friday gaming laptop deals: Cheapest prices today Best Chromebook Black Friday deals on HP, Lenovo, and more Audio / Video Black Friday Computing Black Friday deals have brought with them some awesome laptop deals so you can save big on everything from a budget-priced Chromebook to a high-end gaming laptop. We'd be remiss if we didn't also mention the Amazon Black Friday laptop deals guide, there are a lot of good discounts on there, too. If you've been waiting to upgrade your current rig, this is your chance. There are so many options out there that we've picked out some of our favorites so you can easily find the right laptop for your needs and your budget. This list does not include Black Friday MacBook deals, so make sure you check those out too. Here's a look at all the highlights.
Top 3 Black Friday laptop deals HP 17-inch laptop -- $250, was $500 Currently heavily discounted as part of HP laptop Black Friday deals, the HP 17-inch laptop is ideal for anyone on a slim budget. It looks more expensive than it is thanks to having a 17-inch HD+ screen with 1600 x 900 and 250 nits of brightness. That extra room also means the keyboard is roomier with a numeric pad to the right of it that's ideal for entering a lot of data. The laptop has an AMD Athlon Gold 7220U processor along with 8GB of memory and 128GB of SSD storage. It also has a lift-hinge to ensure you can type at a more natural position.
Audio / Video Black Friday is here, earlier than ever this year. Retailers are starting to shower the interwebs with early Black Friday deals, discounts, and promotions galore. Now is really one of the best times of the year to capitalize on those huge savings, whether you need a new smart TV, a new laptop, a game console, or just about anything else, even if they're not electronics. As for your home theater setup, if you're looking to upgrade your TV to a 4K, 8K, or just a better set, have we got some offers for you.
Sony Black Friday deals include some great offers in OLED TV Black Friday deals and QLED TV Black Friday deals, so check those out below, then pair your new display with one of the best Black Friday soundbar deals or a gaming console with PS5 Black Friday deals. We've rounded up all of the best Sony TV Black Friday deals we could find on a host of models and styles. The smallest TV in this article is 43-inches, so check out the best 32-inch TV Black Friday deals if you need a mini option. For bigger options, check out 55-inch TV Black Friday deals, 70-inch TV Black Friday deals and some of the offers in Amazon Black Friday deals.
Best Sony TV Black Friday deals on 4K TVs Audio / Video Amazon's Fire TV is one of the most popular streaming platforms, and it's available as a built-in operating system in the retailer's own TVs or as a replacement through the brand's streaming devices. If you're interested, you shouldn't miss Amazon Black Friday deals, as there's huge discounts that are available for the shopping holiday. Whether you're planning to buy a new TV, or you want to access the platform on your current TV, there's an offer out there for you -- but you have to hurry because we're not sure how long stocks will last.
Best Fire TV Black Friday deals The simplest way to get Fire TV is to buy a TV that's powered by the platform, and Amazon has its own line of TVs that ships with the operating system -- through there are other brands that also load their TVs with it. You'll be able to access all of the popular streaming services such as Amazon Prime Video and Netflix, and you can use voice commands for functions such as controlling playback and searching for content through Amazon's Alexa. The deals below include options at various sizes, including 55-inch TV Black Friday deals, 65-inch TV Black Friday deals, 70-inch TV Black Friday deals and 32-inch TV Black Friday deals. You have to act fast if you've got an eye on any of these Amazon Fire TV Black Friday deals though, as they may expire at any moment.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
