Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Peacock TV free trial: Can you stream for free By Lucas Coll Close In a world of so many streaming apps, be unique — that’s what we always say. No longer a newcomer, NBC’s online streaming app Peacock TV has a few unique offerings that set it apart from the crowd. It’s become quite popular as a reliable way to stream classic NBC shows like The Office and 30 Rock, plus new shows and movies, live news, and sports. Some unique things about Peacock: It offers like live TV channels, making it one of the best live TV streaming services , and it’s very cheap, with two paid plans. Of course, you’re here because you’re looking for a Peacock TV free trial. Let’s explore what that means for a unique service like Peacock.
Is there a Peacock TV free trial? Can you get Peacock TV for free? Are there any Peacock TV deals? Is there a Peacock TV free trial? Phil Nickinson / Digital Trends Just like there’s no Disney Plus free trial , as of now, there’s no Peacock TV free trial for the paid plans. The paid Peacock plans include the Premium and Plus tiers, which ring in at $6 per month or $12 per month, respectively. You can also pay for 10 months at once and Peacock will give you the last two months of the year for free. These packages give you complete access to the full library of Peacock shows, channels, and movies. The only differences between the two is that the $12 per month Peacock Plus plan is ad-free and allows you to download and watch select shows and movies offline.
Can you get Peacock TV for free? Peacock used to have a completely free tier called Basic that had about 10,000 hours worth of content. It had ads of course, but who can complain about free? Unfortunately, Peacock stopped the free service in early 2023, so you now need to have a Plus or Premium plan in order to stream anything on the site. Once you sign up, you’ll get access to all of the best shows on Peacock , like Downton Abbey, Psych, and 30 Rock.
 You’ll also get access to live sports, so you can watch boxing , international soccer matches, and more with the cheapest subscription. If you want to see more, check out our lists of the best shows on Peacock as well as what’s new on Peacock this month to see what else is on tap.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
Are there any Peacock TV deals? There’s no free or reduced Peacock TV deal going on right now, but compared to some of the other services, the regular prices are reasonable. You can sign up for Peacock Premium for just $6 per month. Peacock Premium is a great value even at its normal price, considering that you get a lot of on-demand shows and movies as well as live TV channels, so it’s a solid bargain. You can always go with Peacock Plus for $12 per month, as well, which allows you to download select titles and watch them offline and also removes a majority of the ads you’d see with the lower tier plan. Whatever the case, now’s a great time to sign up for Peacock TV to catch some of its exclusive content. Some of the best TV deals out there include Peacock subscriptions, so if you’re in the market for a new home theater screen, you might get the opportunity to test out the service.
Editors' Recommendations All the best 65-inch TV Black Friday deals you can shop now 4 early Walmart Black Friday TV deals you should shop right now ESPN+ Free Trial: Can you sign up for free in 2023? You can get this 58-inch Roku TV for under $300 if you’re quick Showtime Free Trial: Get a month of streaming for free Cheapest Prices Free Trial Peacock Streaming Services Deals Today, every network and every service has a streaming app to offer, and it seems silly to pay for a subscription to all of them without knowing how often you're going to use each one. So, the best way to break in some of the best streaming devices is with a free trial that lets you test out the library and experience. If you're wondering what to watch right now, AMC Plus is chock full of excellent content. You may recognize AMC as the network that brought us Breaking Bad, Mad Men, The Walking Dead, and Better Call Saul, among others, and AMC Plus is their relatively new streaming platform. An AMC Plus free trial is a great way to binge-watch some of your favorite AMC content and explore whether or not the popular streaming service is something you’d like to have access to more frequently with a paid subscription. On-demand AMC content is nothing to sneeze at -- they have some truly amazing shows. Don't forget, you can also check out some of the other streaming services that are out there, too. However, if AMC Plus still has you intrigued, read on.
Is there an AMC Plus free trial? An AMC Plus free trial does exist, and like a Disney Plus free trial, it’s good for seven days of access to the entire library of content. AMC Plus’ content includes favorites like The Walking Dead, Dark Winds, and Moonhaven. It also gives you access to thousands of hours of incredible movies, ready to watch whenever you are. An AMC Plus free trial also gets you seven days of access to the best content BBC America, IFC, and Sundance TV have to offer and full access to Shudder, Sundance Now, and IFC Films Unlimited.
Audio / Video With an OLED TV, you'll be getting unparalleled depth, color, and sharpness, and between OLED and QLED TVs, the advantages of OLED TVs include perfect black levels, superior response times, wider viewing angles, and lower power consumption. If you're sold, check out the OLED TV deals that we've gathered here, as they're the best that you can buy right now. You're going to have to be quick with your purchase though, because time may already be running out for some of these offers.
48-inch LG A2 Series OLED 4K TV — $550, was $1,300 The LG A2 Series OLED 4K TV offers 4K Ultra HD resolution on its 48-inch display, and with the brand's a7 Gen 5 AI Processor 4K, you'll enjoy even richer colors and lifelike pictures. The TV runs on LG's webOS 22 platform, through which you can access all of the most popular streaming services, while also enabling compatibility with digital assistants like Amazon's Alexa and Google Assistant.
Audio / Video You probably didn't think QLED TV deals can go as low as $400 for a large display, but that's only what you'll have to pay for the 65-inch TCL Q5 4K QLED TV. Best Buy has slashed its original price of $600 with a $200 discount, which places it within reach for more families who are looking to upgrade their home theater setup. You probably don't have much time left to take advantage of this offer though, as we think it will attract a lot of interest. Before stocks run out, push through with your purchase for this 4K QLED TV as soon as you can.
Why you should buy the 65-inch TCL Q5 4K QLED TV TCL is included in our list of the best TV brands because of the value that you'll get from its products, which is highlighted by the discounted 65-inch TCL Q5 4K QLED TV. For a relatively affordable price, you'll enjoy 4K Ultra HD resolution on a large 65-inch display, though you'll have to check our guide on what size TV to buy first to make sure that you have enough space for it. The impressive visuals are supported by DTS Virtual: X, creating immersive 3D sound for a complete cinematic experience. Also, like the best TVs, the 65-inch TCL Q5 4K QLED TV is a smart TV that runs on the Google TV platform, which grants access to all of the popular streaming services.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
