Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Best Sony headphone deals: Save on top headphones and earbuds By Aaron Mamiit Close Shoppers are always on the lookout for headphone deals and true wireless earbuds deals involving Sony’s devices because the brand is well-known for the quality of its products. If you’re one of them, you’ve come to the right place because we’ve rounded up the best Sony headphone deals that you can currently find online. Some of the offers below won’t last long though as there’s always high demand for Sony headphones, so if any one of them catches your eye and fits your budget, you shouldn’t hesitate proceeding with the purchase because you may miss out on the discount if you do.
Sony WHCH710N wireless headphones — $100, was $148 Sony LinkBuds S wireless earbuds — $148, was $200 Sony WHXB910NB wireless headphones — $200, was $250 Sony WF-1000XM5 wireless earbuds — $248, was $300 Sony WH-1000XM4 wireless headphones — $248, was $348 Sony WH-1000XM5 wireless headphones — $328, was $400 Sony WHCH710N wireless headphones — $100, was $148 Sony The Sony WHCH710N wireless headphones connect to your mobile devices using Bluetooth , and they offer active noise cancellation that automatically senses your environment with Dual Noise Sensor technology to determine the appropriate settings for the best possible listening experience. They’re designed to be very lightweight and comfortable to wear, which is important if you want to maximize its battery life of up to 35 hours. The wireless headphones also offer USB-C quick charging with up to 60 minutes of usage after just 10 minutes of charging.
Sony LinkBuds S wireless earbuds — $148, was $200 Simon Cohen / Digital Trends / Digital Trends The Sony LinkBuds S wireless earbuds are small and light, but they offer excellent noise canceling and sound quality, as well as smart sound technology that learns your behavior so that they will automatically adjust settings to give you the right audio for every moment. The wireless earbuds also promise clear calls through advanced voice signal processing, and a long battery life of up to six hours on a single charge and a total of 20 hours with their charging case.
Sony WHXB910NB wireless headphones — $200, was $250 Sony Enjoy deep and punchy sound through the Extra Bass feature of the Sony WHXB910NB wireless headphones, which also offer active noise cancellation and a battery life of up to 30 hours from a full charge. If you have ANC activated, placing your hand over the right earcup turns down the volume of whatever you’re listening to and deactivates ANC so that you can instantly engage in conversation.
Sony WF-1000XM5 wireless earbuds — $248, was $300 Simon Cohen / Digital Trends / Digital Trends The Sony WF-1000XM5 wireless earbuds are highlighted in our roundup of the best wireless earbuds because are even smaller and better than their already excellent predecessors, while also featuring impressive ANC and sound quality when listening to music and making calls. The wireless earbuds uses AI with adaptive sound control to create ideal listening experiences, they’re water resistant so they won’t get damaged by rain or sweat, and they can last up to eight hours on a single charge and a total of 24 hours with their charging case.
Sony WH-1000XM4 wireless headphones — $248, was $348 Riley Young / Digital Trends / Digital Trends The Sony WH-1000XM4 wireless headphones offer top-of-the-line active noise cancellation and adaptive sound control for a customized listening experience. The wireless headphones have Touch Sensor controls to control playback and call your preferred digital assistant, and speak-to-chat technology automatically lowers volume when you talk. They can run for up to 30 hours on a single charge, and you’ll replenish 5 hours of usage after just 10 minutes of being plugged in.
Sony WH-1000XM5 wireless headphones — $328, was $400 Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Hanging on top of our list of the best headphones are the Sony WH-1000XM5 wireless headphones, because of their best-in-class noise canceling capabilities and their excellent sound. They’re very comfortable to wear, which will let you maximize their maximum runtime of 30 hours from a full charge. If their battery gets depleted, just 3 minutes of charging will give back 3 hours of usage. The wireless headphone also offer crystal clear hands-free calling, Bluetooth multipoint to let you quickly switch between devices, and touch controls.
Editors' Recommendations A massive Sonos Black Friday sale just started at Best Buy 75 best Amazon Black Friday deals on laptops, TVs, Apple, and more Amazon Fire TV Black Friday deals: TVs, Fire Sticks, and more The best 70-inch TV Black Friday deals from LG, Samsung, and more All the best 65-inch TV Black Friday deals you can shop now Deals Cheapest Prices Headphones Sony Audio / Video If a 65-inch TV is the perfect size for your home theater setup upgrade according to our guide on what size TV to buy, then you shouldn't miss the discounts that are available in this year's Black Friday deals. There are offers involving some of the best TV brands, including LG, Samsung, and Sony, ranging from affordable choices to top-of-the-line models that require a hefty investment. Sony TV Black Friday deals have some cheaper 65-inch options, and Samsung TV Black Friday deals have some of the more expensive ones (think The Frame). Best Buy Black Friday TV deals and Amazon Black Friday deals cover the gamut, so check them out if brand and size aren't too important. You're going to have to be quick with your purchase though -- we're not sure how much stock retailers have available for these 65-inch TVs for the shopping holiday, so if you don't want to miss out, you'll need to complete your transaction as soon as possible.
For other sizes, browse the best 32-inch TV Black Friday deals, 55-inch TV Black Friday deals 70-inch TV Black Friday deals and 75-inch TV Black Friday deals.
The best 65-inch TV Black Friday deal Audio / Video If you've been figuring out what size TV you should buy and it turns out 32 inches is just right, you may have found your options a little slimmer than with bigger TVs. While many of the best TVs are much bigger, you can still buy from some of the best TV brands as part of the Black Friday deals going on at the moment. There are some truly fantastic 32-inch TV Black Friday deals around with deep discounts to be found. We've picked out the very best deal while also featuring others you can check out.
Best 32-inch TV Black Friday deal Insignia 32-inch F20 HD Smart Fire TV -- $90, was $150 For a super cheap TV that will suit either your living room or your bedroom, the Insignia 32-inch F20 HD Smart Fire TV has all the essentials you need at this price. It might only have a 720p resolution but it has Fire TV built-in so it's simple to find all your favorite apps and thereby stream plenty of different shows and movies. Additionally, there's Alexa voice control support saving you from needing to grab your remote so often. Instead, you can speak to the TV to change input, change channel, find something to watch and all kinds of things.
Audio / Video Best Buy is staying true to its name, as the retail giant is churning out some impressive prices as part of its Black Friday deals. This is great news if you’re hoping to land a discount on a new TV this Black Friday shopping season. It’s pretty easy to find price drops on TVs, with even the best TVs seeing frequent discounts, but right now we’re seeing more significant TV deals taking place with Black Friday around the corner.
In Best Buy Black Friday deals you can currently find deals on top TV brands. If you want to look at individual brand's offers, check out Samsung TV Black Friday deals, Sony TV Black Friday deals and LG Black Friday deals. The smallest TV on this list is 43-inches, so if you need something smaller head over to 32-inch Black Friday TV deals. For something larger, browse 55-inch TV Black Friday deals and 70-inch TV Black Friday deals. If you just have a gift card to burn, or you're just loyal to Best Buy, check out some of the great Best Buy Black Friday laptop deals happening now too.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
