Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best Cyber Monday TV deals under $1000 from a TV expert By Caleb Denison Close I have some excellent news for you. If you’re prepared to spend between $500 and $1000 on a TV on Cyber Monday, then you are going to be thrilled with the TVs I’m putting on this list.
TCL 5-Series 75-inch 4K HDR Roku TV Hisense U7H 65-inch 4K HDR Google TV TCL 6-Series 65-inch 4K HDR Roku TV Hisense U8H 65-inch 4K HDR Google TV LG B2 OLED 4K HDR TV Sony X90K 4K HDR Google TV Buy with confidence If you need to spend a bit less, check out my list of the best Cyber Monday TV deals under $500 , where you can still get a great TV for less. But if you’re here, I’m presuming you want to get a really great TV with picture quality that will thrill you at a price you can stomach. With that in mind, I’ve leveraged my experience testing the best TVs you can buy in 2022 to help point you straight to the very best options, all of which are on serious discounts right now.
To be clear, there isn’t a single TV on this list I wouldn’t buy for myself, my family, or my very best friends. Hopefully, that instills a bit of confidence in you.
One quick note: Given it is Cyber Monday, it’s possible some of these deals may run out. We’ll do our best to keep this list updated, though.
TCL 5-Series 75-inch 4K HDR Roku TV Image used with permission by copyright holder If you’re looking to upgrade both the size and quality of your TV, then the 75-inch version of this TCL 5-Series is a stellar choice. It’s got full-array local dimming for great black levels and blooming control, very good brightness for impressive HDR , and the color on this set is also very good, especially for the price.
Any time you’re looking to step up above the 65-inch inch size variants, you’ll have to weight cost vs. picture quality. I feel like the TCL 5-Series nails the balance between the two. I highly recommend it.
Hisense U7H 65-inch 4K HDR Google TV No joke, this is possibly the best deal in TVs right now. In my review of the Hisense U7H, I couldn’t get over how great the TV was for the price. I still can’t — and that’s at its normal sale price. Now $500 off, this is probably the most no-brainer choice on this list.
The Hisense U7H can get surprisingly bright, so it is especially good for daytime/bright room viewing. Its black levels are shockingly good for the price, leading to very impressive HDR performance. And in its theater picture mode, it’s got some of the most accurate out-of-box colors I’ve tested on a TV under $2,000.
The only question in my mind is: get the 65-inch version for $699, or the 75-inch for $949? The choice is yours. Either way, you walk away a winner.
TCL 6-Series 65-inch 4K HDR Roku TV The TCL 6-Series is and has been my pick for the best value in TV for 4 years running. It’s not quite as bright as the next TV on this list, but only marginally so, and more importantly, I feel it has the cleanest picture and best motion for sports and other fast-moving content. The picture is luscious, and the Roku TV operating system makes it a breeze to use. Voice search on this TV is also very good.
Bottom line: If you value picture quality over sheer size, the TCL 6-Series is the best way to spend your money on a TV.
Hisense U8H 65-inch 4K HDR Google TV No TV on this list packs a punch quite like the Hisense U8H. In my U8H TV review , I was shocked at how bright this TV could get while also having black levels and overall contrast that treads well into OLED TV territory.
If you’re looking for a TV that will impress both you and your friends every time you turn it on, then get this Hisense U8H. And then prepare to see your friends’ jaws drop when they find out how little you paid for it.
And, hey, if you’re having trouble deciding between the Hisense U8H and the TCL 6-Series on this list? I compared the two side-by-side to help you decide.
LG B2 OLED 4K HDR TV LG If you’ve been wanting to get your hands on an OLED TV under $1,000, this is the ticket right here. The LG B2 OLED has the same panel as LG’s more expensive OLEDs, but steps down the processor inside to the same chip LG used in last year’s OLED TVs. In other words, it performs extremely well in just about every area. It’s a great TV for gaming, watching movies, or just binging your favorite shows. If you’ve seen OLED in action, then you know. Now it’s priced within reach, making it one of the most exciting Cyber Monday TV deals I’ve seen yet.
Sony X90K 4K HDR Google TV Fans of Sony’s superb picture processing and PlayStation 5 owners alike will be thrilled to see Sony’s excellent X90K is on sale for $300 off during Cyber Monday.
The Sony X90K offers outstanding picture quality, Sony’s legendary upscaling and processing for one of the cleanest, most refined pictures on this list, and, adding icing on the cake, the Sony X90K is the only TV on this list that offers special gaming features for the PlayStation 5 game console.
Expect amazing HDR gaming with smooth motion, excellent HDR movie performance, and incredibly life-like motion for sports, as well. This TV is just a stellar choice for video enthusiasts in general.
Buy with confidence That’s the list. I picked each of these TVs based on my personal experience with them, and I feel confident that any one of these options won’t just make you happy, you’ll be thrilled with what you get. Sure, there are other great Cyber Monday TV deals , but these are the cream of the crop when it comes to picture quality, performance, and price.
Editors' Recommendations I recommend shopping this Black Friday TV deal right now The best Sony TV Black Friday deals on 4K TVs, 8K TVs, and OLED TVs The best 75-inch TV Black Friday deals on Samsung, Sony, and more All the best 65-inch TV Black Friday deals you can shop now Don’t miss these 32-inch TV Black Friday deals from just $90 Black Friday Cheapest Prices TV Audio / Video Best Buy is staying true to its name, as the retail giant is churning out some impressive prices as part of its Black Friday deals. This is great news if you’re hoping to land a discount on a new TV this Black Friday shopping season. It’s pretty easy to find price drops on TVs, with even the best TVs seeing frequent discounts, but right now we’re seeing more significant TV deals taking place with Black Friday around the corner.
In Best Buy Black Friday deals you can currently find deals on top TV brands. If you want to look at individual brand's offers, check out Samsung TV Black Friday deals, Sony TV Black Friday deals and LG Black Friday deals. The smallest TV on this list is 43-inches, so if you need something smaller head over to 32-inch Black Friday TV deals. For something larger, browse 55-inch TV Black Friday deals and 70-inch TV Black Friday deals. If you just have a gift card to burn, or you're just loyal to Best Buy, check out some of the great Best Buy Black Friday laptop deals happening now too.
Audio / Video Black Friday deals are historically the best time of year to buy a new TV with many retailers homing in on offering the absolute best prices on highly sought after TVs. With so many TV deals going on, we've focused on the best 55-inch TV Black Friday deals currently available. A great mid-range size for many homes, there are some awesome deals on big name brands including the best TV brands. Read on while we take you through what's out there.
Best 55-inch TV Black Friday deal TCL 55-inch Q5 Q-Class QLED TV -- $300, was $450 TCL makes some of the best QLED TVs and much of that quality is reflected in the TCL 55-inch Q5 Q-Class QLED TV. It has the ever attractive QLED panel paired up with useful features like a high brightness Direct LED backlight to provide an enhanced viewing experience. It also has Motion Rate 240 with MEMC Frame Insertion technology so you get fantastic motion clarity. Even when gaming, there's a fast 120Hz variable refresh rate to ensure no risk of motion blur. For picture quality, there's a HDR Pro+ package of Dolby Vision, HDR10+, HDR10 and HLG support for accurate colors and finer details.
Web With so many Black Friday deals already under way, it can be tough to keep on top of everything. Walmart has dozens of different awesome deals so we've narrowed things down to the best Walmart Black Friday deals currently available. There's a little bit of everything here with discounts on TVs, headphones, laptops, coffee makers, and much more. The retailer is also having a massive Black Friday Lego sale. Whatever you're considering buying, keep reading while we take you through some great options.
Other retailers have started early too, so check out Amazon Black Friday deals and Best Buy Black Friday deals.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
