Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Best back-to-school iPad deals: Get an Apple tablet for $220 By Jennifer Allen Close If you need one of the best iPad deals for taking back to school, or simply for fun, we’re here to help. With some great iPad deals going on right now, we’ve highlighted some of the best of the bunch. Below, we’ve picked out iPads covering various different budgets so there’s something for everyone here from the basic iPad to the iPad Pro. Let’s take a look at what’s best for you.
Apple iPad (64GB, Wi-Fi, 7th Gen) — $220, was $249 Apple iPad (64GB, Wi-Fi, 8th Gen) — $413, was $449 Apple iPad Mini (64GB, Wi-Fi, 6th Gen) — $469, was $499 Apple iPad Air (64GB, Wi-Fi, 5th Gen) — $559, was $599 11-inch Apple iPad Pro (128GB, Wi-Fi, M2) — $749, was $799 12.9-inch Apple iPad Pro (128GB, Wi-Fi, M2) — $1,049, was $1,099 Apple iPad (64GB, Wi-Fi, 7th Gen) — $220, was $249 Julian Chokkattu/Digital Trends This Apple iPad 7th generation might not be very new anymore but thanks to Apple supporting its products for a while to come, it remains a good option for those wanting to keep costs down. This particular model is refurbished so it’s had a previous owner but has since been restored to excellent quality, just like if you bought it new. It offers a 10.2-inch Retina display with a 2160 x 1620 resolution, Apple A10 Fusion chip, and a massive 128GB of storage space. It also has a 8MP camera although it’s best suited for occasional snaps or video calls rather than pure photography. It’s a great introduction to tablets if you want something iPadOS based without spending a lot.
Apple iPad (64GB, Wi-Fi, 8th Gen) — $413, was $449.
The latest Apple iPad offers a lot to love. On a basic level, it looks great with a choice of color schemes for matching your aesthetic at school. It also has a delightful 10.9-inch Liquid Retina display with True Tone support so the display is adjusted to the color temperature of the room for excellent picture quality at all times. The A14 Bionic chip ensures decent performance for this price range while there’s 64GB of storage space. A 12MP ultra wide front camera is useful for video calls thanks to Center Stage support, while there’s a 12MP wide back camera for taking snaps.
Apple iPad Mini (64GB, Wi-Fi, 6th Gen) — $469, was $499 Adam Doud/Digital Trends A little powerhouse of an iPad, the Apple iPad Mini is ideal if you need the most portability possible from your tablet. Its 8.3-inch Liquid Retina display looks great with True Tone support, as well as P3 wide color and ultralow reflectivity. The tablet is powered by the A15 Bionic chip which is pretty good for gaming as well as editing content such as images or videos. It also has a 12MP Ultra Wide front camera with Center Stage support, along with a 12MP Wide back camera with True Tone flash. Its smaller size makes it great for anyone who prefers to travel light.
Apple iPad Air (64GB, Wi-Fi, 5th Gen) — $559, was $599 Digital Trends / Digital Trends Topping our look at the best iPads , the Apple iPad Air is the best choice for most people. It uses the M1 chip you see in slightly older iPad Pros and MacBooks so you’re gaining laptop levels of performance here. For the screen, there’s the ever gorgeous 10.9-inch Liquid Retina display with True Tone support along with P3 wide color to ensure that images look sharp and vibrant at all times. Besides being a productivity powerhouse, the Apple iPad Air supports the Apple Pencil (2nd generation) so it’s a reliable option for anyone who wants to sketch out designs and have the advantages of a magnetically charged pencil compared to the first gen one that other tablets support. Suitably versatile, this is a tablet ideal for pretty much all situations.
11-inch Apple iPad Pro (128GB, Wi-Fi, M2) — $749, was $799 Image used with permission by copyright holder The latest Apple iPad Pro 11-inch is a supremely powerful tablet. It uses the M2 chip we see in MacBooks so you gain the latest in laptop levels of performance. It has an 8-core CPU and 10-core GPU so it’s great for everything from gaming to video editing, all while on the move. Alongside that, the 11-inch Liquid Retina display looks great with ProMotion support ensuring no motion blur, True Tone for great colors in any light, along with P3 wide color support too. Basically, you’re gaining a laptop in tablet form with the option to add on the Apple Pencil and Magic Keyboard for more functionality.
12.9-inch Apple iPad Pro (128GB, Wi-Fi, M2) — $1,049, was $1,099 Joe Maring/Digital Trends / Digital Trends For the ultimate iPad experience, buy the Apple iPad Pro 12.9-inch M2.
 Its screen is truly stunning with the 12.9-inch Liquid Retina XDR display offering up to 1,000 nits of brightness with 1,600 nits of peak brightness. A 1,000,000:1 contrast ratio, reference mode, ProMotion, True Tone, and P3 wide color all add to the stunning quality of the display. It’s also powered by the M2 chip with 8-core CPU and 10-core GPU so it can handle anything you throw at it. If you want a life that’s laptop-free, this iPad just made it possible.
Editors' Recommendations Best iPad Black Friday deals: iPad Mini, iPad Air, iPad Pro, and more 75 best Amazon Black Friday deals on laptops, TVs, Apple, and more Best Amazon Fire tablet Black Friday deals: Get a tablet for $40 Best refurbished Apple Black Friday deals on AirPods, iPads, iPhones, and more Best Fitbit Black Friday deals: Save on Fitbit Sense 2 and more Deals Apple Apple iPad Mobile For active tech fans, a Garmin Watch is near essential. The best Garmin Watches are generally more robust than the average smartwatch and they're designed with an active lifestyle in mind. That means better navigation features, better tracking of whatever it is you're doing, and even training plans to help you perfect that marathon you're aiming towards. Some of the best smartwatches around for avid runners, swimmers, or hikers, it's great to see some awesome Black Friday deals pop up for those seeking Garmin watches. We've picked out the very best Black Friday smartwatch deals around and listed them below.
Best Garmin Watch Black Friday deal Garmin Forerunner 255 GPS Smartwatch -- $250, was $350 The Garmin Forerunner 255 GPS Smartwatch is primarily a running watch and perfect for helping you train for your next big race. Not only does it tell you how far and how hard to run but its training plans also encourage you to rest, planning out periods of time for recovery. An impressive 14 days of battery life in smartwatch mode or up to 30 hours in GPS mode mean no need to charge so often compared to regular smartwatches.
Mobile A few years ago, the idea of having a tablet made specifically for kids might have seemed weird, but in today's world, tablets for kids are perfect to help with various tasks, not just entertainment. Of course, all the big brands have tried to get into the game, like Samsung and Amazon, and while it might be nice to grab something like the Amazon Fire HD 10 Kids Edition, it can be expensive and hard to justify the cost of. Luckily, some great alternatives are much cheaper than usual because of the ongoing Black Friday deals we're seeing this month. For example, the Contixo 7-inch Android Kids Tablet has a pretty high rating of 4.4 on Walmart with over 14,000 five-star reviews, and you can grab it now for just $49 instead of the usual $80.
Why you should buy the Contixo 7-inch Android Kids Tablet For the most part, the Contixo is an Android tablet that has been reskinned and made for kids, so you won't get the traditional Android experience and Play Store, which is good when you're giving this to kids who might not know better. What makes it great, though, is that it's preloaded with a bunch of kid-related content, like Disney e-books and other learning games and educational apps, which can help with your child's healthy growth, as opposed to just sitting and watching something all day. It has 32GB of storage, too, so you can store a lot of extra content that caters to your kids if you want, so you can keep them entertained and engaged for long trips where there might not be internet access.
Mobile If you already own the new Apple iPhone 15 or any of its variants but you're still stuck with a basic case, it's highly recommended that you take advantage of this year's Black Friday deals to enjoy some savings on a much-needed upgrade. Not only should you be providing the necessary protection for your iPhone 15 to keep it unscathed, but it would be a huge bonus to place it in a case that looks stylish and matches your personality. However, there's a problem -- there are thousands of iPhone 15 case deals that are available for Black Friday, so it's going to be very hard to narrow down your choices. That won't stop us from trying though, so you should read on.
Best iPhone 15 case Black Friday deal For serious protection without making your iPhone 15 too heavy, you should go for the OtterBox Commuter Series, which is on sale in Amazon's early Black Friday deals for $35 instead of $40. The $5 discount may not look like much, but it's a welcome bonus for what we've tagged as the best rugged case in our roundup of the best iPhone 15 cases. It's capable of withstanding three times the military standards for drop protection with a hybrid dual-layer construction that combines recycled rubber with a rigid outer shell, but it stays slim and lightweight so your iPhone 15 won't feel like a brick in your hands. We're not sure if this lowered price will remain online through to the shopping holiday, so you should think about making the purchase right now.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
