Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Best smartwatch deals: Samsung, Google, Apple, and Garmin By Andrew Morrisey Close Whether for fitness or fashion, a smartwatch makes a great tech accessory. And right now a new smartwatch makes a great way to save, with a lot of smartwatch deals going on across several retailers. You’ll find several of the best smartwatches and best fitness trackers with their prices discounted right now, and among the current smartwatch deals are brands like Garmin, Apple, Samsung, and Google. With so many ways to save on a smartwatch out there, we’ve tracked down the best smartwatch deals and compiled them all in one place. So whether you’re in the market for an Apple Watch or a Pixel Watch, a Galaxy Watch or a Garmin, read up on the best smartwatch deals below.
Apple Watch SE — $109, was $309 Samsung Galaxy Watch 4 — $170, was $200 Fitbit Sense 2 — $200, was $250 Google Pixel Watch — $200, was $280 Apple Watch SE 2 — $219, was $249 Samsung Galaxy Watch 6 — $270, was $300 Samsung Galaxy Watch 5 Pro — $400, was $450 Samsung Galaxy Watch 6 Classic — $420, was $450 Apple Watch Series 8 — $429, was $529 Apple Watch Ultra — $659, was $799 Apple Watch SE — $109, was $309 Apple Even with the release of the second generation Apple Watch SE, the first generation Apple Watch SE is a smartwatch worthy of purchasing. It still holds its own in terms of features, with all of the tracking capabilities the Apple Watch lineup has become known for, including the ability to track tai chi and pilates workouts, in addition to things like running, yoga, swimming and dance. It allows you to hike smarter with a built-in compass and real-time elevation readings, and its swimproof design holds up in the pool and on rainy jogs. The Apple Watch SE looks great out on the town as well, and has excellent battery life.
Samsung Galaxy Watch 4 — $170, was $200 Samsung Not only is it a great alternative to something like the Apple Watch SE, but the Samsung Galaxy Watch 4 stands alone as a well-priced yet premium fitness tracker. It’s a couple of generations old now, but it has all of the fitness tracking capabilities you’ll find in most smartwatches. It even expands on features such as sleep tracking and workout tracking. It’s able to do each of these automatically and with advanced detail. It’s capable of providing body composition analysis, which will help you crush your wellness goals with body readings right on your wrist. This should be an especially attractive option if you have other Samsung devices, as the Galaxy Watch 4 can slip right into your Samsung device ecosystem.
Fitbit Sense 2 — $200, was $250 Fitbit The Fitbit Sense 2 is the smartwatch designed to help you stress less, sleep better, and liver healthier. It has all-day stress detection functionality that can recognize stressful events and help you manage them and move on stress-free. Sleep profiles and sleep reports teach you about the quality of your previous night’s sleep. Heart rate tracking and fitness tracking are part of the package, and the Fitbit Sense 2 even has built-in GPS. You’re able to sync the Fitbit Sense 2 with your phone and receive notifications for calls, texts, calendar events and apps right on your wrist.
Google Pixel Watch — $200, was $280 Google The Google Pixel Watch is a capable smartwatch that makes an affordable alternative to some of the best smartwatches. It allows you to stay on top of activity, calories burned, and even more with Fitbit activity tracking, and it even comes with six free months of Fitbit Premium. It’s capable of tracking your heart rate and giving you insights on your sleep, and it includes plenty of day to day features such as Google Wallet for contactless payments, turn-by-turn directions using Maps, and event notifications from Calendar. The Google Pixel Watch allows you to stay productive wherever you go with access to things like messages, phone calls, and even your email inbox.
Apple Watch SE 2 — $219, was $249 Apple The Apple Watch SE 2 is Apple’s latest release of the smartwatch meant to deliver Apple’s notorious style and convenient ecosystem right to your wrist, and at a reasonable price as tech goes. It rivals the Apple Watch Series 7 in terms of capability, and includes all of the tracking and fitness features the Apple software ecosystem is famous for. This includes features like crash detection, fall detection, and emergency SOS, as well as fitness monitoring and health tracking software. It works seamlessly with your Apple devices and services, and can unlock your Mac automatically, help you find your devices with a tap, pay and send money with Apple Pay, and give you access to thousands of apps on the App Store.
Samsung Galaxy Watch 6 — $270, was $300 Samsung The Samsung Galaxy Watch 6 is currently the most recently released Galaxy Watch, so you know you’re getting up-to-date specs and features with it. It has all of the fitness tracking features that most people are looking for in a smartwatch, but it makes a good option if you have other Samsung devices and prefer the Samsung ecosystem. It has a bigger screen than previous Galaxy Watch generations, which makes it easier to navigate apps and interact with the smartwatch. You can easily personalize your Samsung Galaxy Watch 6 wit one-click bands to match any mood or style.
Samsung Galaxy Watch 5 Pro — $400, was $450 Samsung The Galaxy Watch 5 Pro Titanium comes in at the higher end of the Galaxy Watch lineup. It has all of the great features you’ll find in the Aluminum model, as well as things like the ability to become an extension of your Galaxy smartphone, and to sync with other Galaxy mobile devices. Advanced sleep coaching, improved sensor accuracy, auto workout tracking, and enhanced GPS are par for the course with the new Galaxy Watch 5, and interchangeable bands and faces make it as versatile during a night out on the town as it is using a hike through the mountains. This Pro Titanium model also includes LTE, and is a little larger than the Aluminum model.
Samsung Galaxy Watch 6 Classic — $420, was $450 Samsung The Samsung Galaxy Watch 6 Classic offers a little more than the entry level Galaxy Watch 6. It has a classic watch design that works with almost any style. It also rotates, giving you easy access to all of your apps. Fitness tracking has everything you would expect from a premium smartwatch, including Personal HR zones tailored just for you and advanced sleep coaching that gives you insights to help you develop better sleep habits. The Galaxy Watch 6 Classic works well with other Samsung devices, syncing seamlessly so you can play your favorite music, control your smartphone camera, make calls, and text right from the watch itself.
Apple Watch Series 8 — $429, was $529 Apple The Apple Watch Series 8 is no longer the newest Apple Watch on the market with the release of the Apple Watch Series 9 , but there isn’t much dropoff from the Series 9 to the Series 8. The Series 8 has a sleek, comfortable design that looks as good for a night out on the town as it does for a run on the trail. Advanced sensors provide insights to better help you understand your health. Innovative safety features are included, such as crash detection and fall detection, and the Apple Watch Series 8 integrates seamlessly with all of your Apple Devices. If you’re in search of one of the best smartwatches and want something that fits right in with your already-existing Apple devices, software, and synchronization, there’s not many better options the Apple Watch Series 8 makes a more affordable option than newer releases out there.
Apple Watch Ultra — $659, was $799 Apple The Apple Watch Ultra is a more recent addition to the Apple Watch lineup, and while there’s a newer Apple Watch Ultra 2 available, we think the original Apple Watch Ultra is still a big, exciting, overwhelming success.
 It’s incredibly durable and made from luxury materials, and even manages a unique design while still maintaining recognizability as an Apple Watch. It does everything the Series 8 can do, and it comes with LTE cellular capability standard. This will allow you to interact with your web-based world without the need for a wifi connection, making it a great option for travelers and people who like the wander the unbeaten trail. Made to meet the demands of endurance athletes, water sports enthusiasts, outdoor adventurers, and anyone with style, the Apple Watch Ultra will look good on just about any wrist.
Editors' Recommendations Best Black Friday smartwatch deals: Apple, Samsung, Garmin, and more Walmart Black Friday deals: The best offers you can shop now Google Pixel Black Friday deals: Pixel 8, Pixel Watch, Pixel Buds and more Best refurbished Apple Black Friday deals on AirPods, iPads, iPhones, and more Best Fitbit Black Friday deals: Save on Fitbit Sense 2 and more Deals Android Cheapest Prices Wearables Mobile For active tech fans, a Garmin Watch is near essential. The best Garmin Watches are generally more robust than the average smartwatch and they're designed with an active lifestyle in mind. That means better navigation features, better tracking of whatever it is you're doing, and even training plans to help you perfect that marathon you're aiming towards. Some of the best smartwatches around for avid runners, swimmers, or hikers, it's great to see some awesome Black Friday deals pop up for those seeking Garmin watches. We've picked out the very best Black Friday smartwatch deals around and listed them below.
Best Garmin Watch Black Friday deal Garmin Forerunner 255 GPS Smartwatch -- $250, was $350 The Garmin Forerunner 255 GPS Smartwatch is primarily a running watch and perfect for helping you train for your next big race. Not only does it tell you how far and how hard to run but its training plans also encourage you to rest, planning out periods of time for recovery. An impressive 14 days of battery life in smartwatch mode or up to 30 hours in GPS mode mean no need to charge so often compared to regular smartwatches.
Web Best Buy is one of the key retailers when it comes to offering fantastic Black Friday deals. That means it's the perfect place to check out awesome TV deals, laptop deals, and even great sales on appliances too. With hundreds of options newly available, we've helped you out by picking out some highlights. Below, you'll find all the best Best Buy Black Friday deals on TVs, laptops, gaming PCs, headphones, appliances, and other items too.
Best Buy Black Friday TV deals Mobile Black Friday deals have begun early at Walmart with some fantastic Apple Watch deals meaning that the Apple Watch Series 9 is enjoying its first big discount. Usually priced at $399 for the 41mm model and $429 for the 45mm model, you can now save $50 off the regular prices and snag an Apple Watch Series 9 from just $349. Sure to be popular, let's take a quick look at what it offers before you hit the buy button.
Apple Watch Series 9 (41mm, GPS) -- $349, was $399: Apple Watch Series 9 (45mm, GPS) -- $379, was $429: Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
