Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Web Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? 30 best gift cards you can give friends, family, and coworkers in 2023 By John Alexander Close Between gifts, birthdays, and holiday, it can be difficult to figure out what to give the people we know and love. With everybody having their own minds about what to get for themselves, the thought of giving a selected gift becomes challenging. What if the headphones you pick our for your brother aren’t exactly the best headphones you can buy? Your niece is into gaming, but there’s seemingly no way to remember what games she wants. The solution to all of this disarray and individuality could be cash, but different families and groups tend to have frustratingly unwritten rules around cash giving. That leaves one real solution: The gift card.
Amazon Apple Best Buy Netflix Disney Plus Williams Sonoma Target Ticketmaster AirBnB Uber Visa Walmart Starbucks The Sill Hello Fresh Twitch GameStop Google Play Store MasterClass DoorDash Uber Eats Playstation Store Microsoft Store Nintendo eShop Steam Spotify Chewy B&H Massage Envy Uncommon Goods But that solution quickly brings forth the new problem of trying to figure out which gift card to give. Nearly every company and service offers one nowadays. And different ones give different sentiments. A gift card for a weight loss program’s merchandise could be either be the most thoughtful, well-wishing gift of the year or a metaphorical slap in the face. Despite appearances, a gift card is not necessarily the equivalent of cash. What, then, should you choose? To guide you on your gift card buying journey, we’ve assembled the best you can buy, based on the interests of Digital Trends readers at large. For each entry, we’ll tell you generally who the gift card is for as well as some things the recipient might likely purchase with the card.
Amazon.
Amazon is where we get everything these days. And, being a purely online store, it isn’t cash friendly, either. This means that an Amazon gift card is great for just about anybody, but especially for teens without a credit card of their own.
Apple Apple / .
You already know the type that wants an Apple gift card. They’re the ones who bring their MacBook with them to the coffee shop, know the best iPhones by name, and are totally stuck in the Apple ecosystem.
Best Buy Image used with permission by copyright holder Best Buy is a sort of tech wonderland. You can look at OLEDs and QLEDs in person, try on the latest headphones, and consider if you need to upgrade some of your appliances all from the same place. This gift card is great for your friend or relative that needs to experience a product before buying it.
Netflix Image used with permission by copyright holder Netflix remains one of the best streaming services year after year. They have original TV and movies as well as worldwide favorites that you wouldn’t ordinarily get exposed to. And while they aren’t a gaming streaming service, a subscription to them will allow you to download and play some mobile games with no additional costs.
Disney Plus Phil Nickinson / Digital Trends Disney Plus is a fantastic source of entertainment that has things everybody in the family will like, but especially children. Again, though, don’t let the Disney name fool you, as this is entertainment for everyone and Disney owns quite a lot of IP outside of Mickey Mouse these days. Check out our constantly evolving list of the best movies on Disney Plus to see what we mean. Diverse viewing option aside, a Disney Plus gift card is the perfect gift for families with young children.
Williams Sonoma Image used with permission by copyright holder We all know the cook that spends more on the ingredients than the tools used to cook them up. A Williams Sonoma gift card is a friendly way to encourage them to up their cookware, bakeware, or cutlery game.
Target Image used with permission by copyright holder Target is home to a ton of home appliances, craft supplies, beauty products, and even has some surprisingly good clothing. A Target gift card allows the recipient to get something they really need , and the best part is that they’ll be thinking about you every time they use it.
Ticketmaster.
If you have a friend or relative that’s always going out to concerts, live shows, or sporting events, you need to check out the Ticketmaster gift card. As you’ve probably discovered, figuring out what events other people will like and on what schedule they should go to them is nearly impossible. A Ticketmaster gift card is a touching way to tell a pal that you want them to enjoy themselves, be at an event they care about, and do so on their own schedule.
AirBnB Image used with permission by copyright holder Whether you’re a frequent business traveler or just need a vacation after a long year at work, you may prefer a homely AirBnB over a traditional hotel. Your friends are likely the same. An AirBnB gift card is a way to remind a friend that you feel they always deserve the comforts of a home, no matter where they’ve wondered off to.
Uber.
If you’ve ever traveled, you know that the rental car can be one of the worst expenses on a trip. And if you’re in a largely walkable city, you may have found yourself disappointed in its cost-effectiveness. Don’t let others fall down the same path. Get them an Uber gift card so they can experience the phone-operated modern taxi equivalent on an as-need basis.
Visa Image used with permission by copyright holder In a lot of ways, a Visa gift card is like cash. It can be used anywhere you would a regular Visa card, after all. But the real draw of a Visa gift card is that it can allow your teen, who might not have their own debit card yet, the ability to buy things online. As a bonus, it is good practice for managing money they you can’t see and count in real time.
Walmart Image used with permission by copyright holder If you want it, it’s probably at Walmart. This giant retailer and grocery store really needs no introduction, so long as you remember there are ample opportunities to buy great game consoles, clothes, and appliances at the store.
Starbucks Image used with permission by copyright holder If you recognize any of our picks for best business laptops simply via that friend that lugs theirs to every coffee shop in town, this is the gift that you should get them. Of course, grabbing a cup of Starbucks coffee (or tea) is also a great way to pad out the morning commute or catch up for a chat with a friend, too.
The Sill Image used with permission by copyright holder The more we get caught up in our digital lives and current digital trends, the more we can lose touch with nature. A gift card from The Sill lets your pal pick a plant or get plant supplies for their home, keeping a little bit of nature around, even during lengthy work hours.
Hello Fresh.
If you have a friend that always wants to cook and eat new foods but can’t stand choosing what to get or hates collecting spices they’ll only use one, they should try out Hello Fresh. From our first hand account of using Hello Fresh , we can confirm the food tastes delicious.
Twitch Image used with permission by copyright holder From speedruns to “Just Chatting” you can find a ton of live entertainment on Twitch. But with increasingly good anti ad block technology, you’ll have to subscribe to your favorite streamers to avoid annoying midstream ads. The platform is surprisingly addictive and your favorite web writer might have a stream open on their second monitor as we speak. LUL GameStop Image used with permission by copyright holder GameStop remains a fantastic place to grab controllers, consoles, game discs, and game cartridges, plus a whole host of other game-related items. Get this gift card for your favorite gamer to show you support them enjoying their leisure time in the way they please.
Google Play Store.
If your giftee owns an Android phone, they’re probably highly acquainted with the Google Play Store app. It’s where Android users get apps, games, and more. While their are tons of great free options in the store, this gift card will allow complete freedom to get the best Android apps.
MasterClass MasterClass To make a long story short, MasterClass is a bit like Netflix, but it centers of educational content delivered to you by experts in the field, including famed stars like Gordon Ramsay and Will Wright.
 A MasterClass gift card can symbolize your support of a friend who is going through a period of growth.
DoorDash Getty Images / .
Who has time to cook these days? A DoorDash gift card will allow the recipient to call in their favorite foods on delivery and on demand. With DoorDash, your friend can even schedule their meals to be delivered in advance, so they have something at their door the moment they log off of Slack for the day.
Uber Eats sdx15/Shutterstock / .
Uber Eats is another great food delivery service that operates in a way that will be comfortable to all Uber users. Getting an Uber Eats gift card for someone is a great way to show that you care about them getting delicious meals no matter where they are.
Playstation Store Image used with permission by copyright holder Let’s face it, your PS5-owning friend or child is in constant need of the best PS5 games , present and future. This gift card will allow them to pick up the best of what’s available now as well as what’s coming in the future.
Microsoft Store Image used with permission by copyright holder A Microsoft Store gift card opens up everything from Xbox games and controllers to Microsoft tech for whomever you’re gifting it to. Give this gift card to whomever you think deserves the best in tech and/or gaming.
Nintendo eShop Image used with permission by copyright holder The Nintendo eShop has regular gift cards, which allow you to spend up to their stated amount, but the coolest innovation they’re offering right now is the “Choose One” gift card. This special type of gift card lets the receiver choose one of three complete games to download. This helps avoid the frustrating situation of having a few dollars left over on a gift card, not enough to buy what you want but also too much to let go to waste.
Steam Image used with permission by copyright holder If you know a PC gamer, then you’ll want to give them a Steam gift card. Steam is the largest store for PC games and pretty much everyone who games on a computer, even users of the best gaming laptops , uses it.
Spotify Image used with permission by copyright holder If the music-lover in your life hasn’t tried out Spotify, perhaps because of the ads on the free version of the app, then this gift card is for them. Spotify is also a great way to share your music tastes with your friends and can help create a wonderful conversation around music.
Chewy Image used with permission by copyright holder Not all gifts need to be for humans. Get your favorite pet parent a Chewy gift card to help them get things that are perfect for their furry friends. Chewy has all the pet supplies you, your friend, or their pet could ever want.
B&H Image used with permission by copyright holder B&H specializes in photo, video, and audio equipment. Your friend or family member that receives this gift card can get anything from a new TV to one of the best cameras.
 Get this gift card for the person that is always talking about tech and seems to have a constant need to upgrade their gear.
Massage Envy Image used with permission by copyright holder Our digital lives have us sitting at desks and craning our necks down to stare at smartphones all day, every day. A massage is the perfect tension killer. Get a Massage Envy gift card for your friend that works long hours at a desk but completely neglects self care.
Uncommon Goods Image used with permission by copyright holder Know you want to someone a gag gift or something a bit strange, but aren’t sure exactly what? Uncommon Goods specializes in unique items and gifting somebody their gift card is the perfect way to say, “I appreciate your quirky side.” Editors' Recommendations Best Buy Black Friday deals: 12 best offers you can shop now The 13 best early Black Friday deals you can shop this weekend Deals Cheapest Prices Computing If you're a YouTube fan like us, you might want to know what the most viewed YouTube videos are, and how to download YouTube videos.
Downloading a video from YouTube doesn’t seem like a big deal at first glance, but it comes with ethical concerns to consider, depending on the original post’s intent. And it's something Google definitely doesn't want you doing — it's a clear violation of YouTube's Terms of Service, but it's even more important to keep the original content creators in mind.
Computing Email is a powerful tool in the modern world. It’s used not only for professional correspondence but also for a variety of other purposes, including messages from your school or university, keeping in touch with distant friends or family, sending digital files, or just generally keeping track of your online accounts and purchases. But the ease of sending email, and the fact that many people have more than one email address, means your inbox(es) can quickly fill with spam.
While you can unsubscribe from mailing lists through Google, you might still receive unwanted emails. Gmail users who want to shut out this noise can do so with just a few clicks. Here’s how to block an email address in Gmail.
Web We've seen many Black Friday deals start early so far this year but now it's time for one of the big guns -- Best Buy. Its Black Friday sale has started already, even though it's still only October. To be able to buy from it, you need to be a My Best Buy Plus or My Best Buy Total member to enjoy the benefits. Make sure to sign up for that and you can easily take advantage of the many deals going on right now. There are thousands of options out there so hit the button below to see for yourself. However, if you want some guidance towards the best deals, read on while we take you through some highlights.
What to shop for in the Best Buy Black Friday sale We all know that Black Friday laptop deals tend to be pretty special. At Best Buy, one highlight is being able to buy the Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
