Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Reviews Razer Raptor 27 monitor review: Making monitors fun again The Razer Raptor 27 makes gaming monitors fun again By Luke Larsen Close $699.00 Beautiful, flashy design Fantastic gaming features Sturdy build quality 90-degree tilt for easy port access Large footprint Cable management made for Razer cables You have every right to be skeptical about the the Razer Raptor 27.
Unabashedly Razer Doing backflips Gaming galore Our take It’s the company’s first attempt to build a stand-alone display. And it comes at a time when gaming-specific monitor features, like high refresh rates and G-Sync, have become common. It’s not inexpensive, either; at $699, this isn’t a purchase you’ll make casually.
9 best monitors for 2023: tested and reviewed 10 best gaming monitors of 2023: tested and reviewed The best 4K gaming monitors of 2023: ultrawides, high refresh rates, and more Yet it will not disappoint you. Once I saw the unique design of it in person, once I witnessed its behemoth-like presence of it at my desk, and once I played games on it, I was convinced. Razer set out on a mission to build a truly unique monitor.
Mission accomplished.
Unabashedly Razer The Raptor 27 is gorgeous. Not a millimeter of the product lacks detail, whether it’s the thin bezels that frame the screen, the menu system, the cloth-like texture of the back, or cable management. Not a single element feels rely on the cheap plastics and ho-hum design that’s so common among monitors.
Riley Young / Digital Trends The Raptor’s base and stand are a single chunk of aluminum. And it’s a large chunk. The base and stand hold up the screen like someone who’s been bulking up their trapezoids at the gym. Even Apple’s 27-inch iMac , and it’s old Thunderbolt displays (rest in peace), aren’t as solid and robust.
The width of the stand is for more than just looks, though. It’s insanely sturdy and rigid, so if the screen wobbles, you can only blame your desk.
Raise the Raptor 27 to its highest point and you now have the ability to it flip back at a 90 degree angle.
Secondly, the wide stand creates space for one of the Raptor’s most interesting features. Built-in cable management. I’m sure you know how frustrating it can be to reach around the back of a monitor and feel for a cable or port. As someone that reviews a lot of PCs and monitors, it’s something I struggle with often.
Razer has an interesting solution to that problem.
Doing backflips Once you raise the Raptor 27 to its highest point, you also have the ability to it flip back at a 90 degree angle. That provides quick and easy access to your ports, right from the front. You don’t have to crawl under your desk or spin around the monitor.
Admittedly, it can only flip back once the monitor is at the top of its height adjustment, and that requires some effort. I wish it lifted a hair quicker, but I can understand the decision. The stiff mechanism does a great job of keeping the monitor’s position exactly where you desire.
The monitor’s green cables, included in the box, run from the ports through a slot and then down the back of the stand. It looks like a Razer-green slip and slide. They’re even held in place by removable magnetic slats. Popping off the slats and squeezing the thin cables is, again, a process that requires some effort. But once it’s all in place, the look is undeniably cool, and your cables will never get tangled up.
Riley Young / Digital Trends Being forced to use Razer’s flat, green cables is likely to be divisive. Not everyone will like the green color scheme, nor the flat design. You can, of course, use your own — they just won’t be guaranteed to fit under the stand’s slats.
Fortunately, the Raptor’s ports cover everything you could need. HDMI, DisplayPort, USB-C, and two USB-A ports are all along the bottom. Those USB ports are useful if you plan on using the Raptor with a laptop. There’s nothing quite like using the single-cable connection through USB-C, and then using those USB-A ports for peripherals.
The Raptor 27’s combination of a 144Hz refresh rate and G-Sync is the pinnacle of smooth PC gaming.
The one caveat with the USB-C port is charging. Many modern monitors can function both as a power and video source for your devices up to 25 watts, such as a 13-inch laptop. The Raptor 27 can only supply 15 watts, meaning it’s limited to smartphones and other smaller devices.
It’s a disappointment, but it’s not Razer’s fault. USB-C can’t deliver more than 100 watts of power, which wouldn’t be enough to power a gaming laptop , anyway. We’ll need another upgrade to the USB specification before that’s possible.
Gaming galore Razer offers just one version of the Raptor 27. In other words, it has a singular vision for what it thinks gamers want in a gaming monitor.
The Raptor measures 27 inches diagonally, the most common size of monitor for gamers. For the average-sized desk, it’s not overly large, but it fills your field of view from that distance.
Riley Young / Digital Trends What about resolution? The Raptor’s screen offers a 2,560 x 1,440 resolution, which is another good choice. Gamers with powerful, updated systems can enjoy 1440p at max settings.
4K is still out of reach for most, and the last thing you want to do is pay a fortune for a feature you’ll never get to use. 1440p is a nice happy medium, especially since the Raptor 27 has a 144Hz refresh rate.
That means the screen can refresh up to 144 frames per second without skipping frames. In other words, it delivers extremely smooth visuals for your fast-paced gaming. There are monitors arriving with 240Hz refresh rates, but few games and systems will benefit from refresh rates that high.
The Raptor also features G-Sync , which ensures that you don’t experience screen tearing or artifacts. The combination of a 144Hz refresh rate and G-Sync is the pinnacle of smooth PC gaming.
The Raptor 27’s image quality is fantastic.
Games look fantastic. Thanks to the monitor’s resolution, great contrast, and vibrant colors, games of all sorts both play and look beautiful. Fast-paced action in Battlefield V or Assassin’s Creed benefit from that high refresh rate, while the high contrast ratio highlights the shadows of the environments.
You can find monitors that look better. The handful of OLED models available now, and throughout history, deliver better contrast. There’s also a select few 4K monitor, like the Acer Predator XB273K and Asus ROG Swift PG27PQ, that can defeat the Razer Raptor 27.
However, the Acer and Asus I just mentioned sell for $900 and $1,500 respectively. That’s a lot to pay for a monitor. Razer balances quality and price well. That’s a surprise. The Raptor 27 is a unique monitor, but its $699 price is a decent value relative to the monitor’s image quality and features.
Despite its surprisingly wide color space (100% sRGB and 91% AdobeRGB) and solid contrast, the Raptor hasn’t been calibrated for color precision. The average rate of color error was worse than monitors half this price. This is a common problem on monitors that have a very wide color gamut. Calibration can help tame that, but photo and video editors should take note. You may not be happy with the Razer Raptor 27 if you task it with professional work.
Our take Razer only offers one option, and though it’s good, it’s also expensive. You can find cheaper monitors with similar specs and features out there. You won’t find one that have the polish of the Raptor 27, though, and that makes it stand out from the crowd.
Are there any alternatives? The Dell 27 Gaming Monitor goes for $560, another 1440p gaming monitor with a 144Hz refresh rate and G-Sync.
The closest direct competitor, though, is the Asus ROG Swift PG279QZ, which matches the Raptor 27 in every spec but sells for just $100 cheaper.
If you’re willing to downgrade to 1080p, one of the best alternatives is the new Samsung CRG5, which has a 240Hz refresh rate and G-Sync for just $400.
Want more options? Check out our favorite monitors of 2019.
How long will it last? There’s no reason the Razer Raptor 27 shouldn’t last you at least five to ten years. Monitors tend to be reliable, and the Razer feels durable.
Should you buy it? Yes. It’s a bit more expensive than some of its competitors, but it lives up to the quality and design I expect in a Razer product.
Editors' Recommendations MSI has some massive QD-OLED monitor news in the works Alienware is playing coy with its two new QD-OLED monitors MSI could be prepping next-gen OLED gaming monitors — and they look insane The best curved monitors for 2023 Intel’s 14th-gen Raptor Lake refresh might be a major disappointment Monitor Reviews PC Gaming Product Reviews Computing Dough has just unveiled an interesting monitor. The Spectrum Black is a 32-inch 4K OLED screen that also serves up 240Hz refresh rates. Those specs might make it one of the best gaming monitors in 2024, and it's not that far off, as it's slated for an April 2024 release. And, if the stars align, it looks like Dough's display might be the first of its kind to come out.
The monitor has a simple design, but it's the specs that make it stand out. On paper, it sounds like a solid gaming monitor, with 0.03ms gray-to-gray response times and the aforementioned high refresh rates. Locked in a 32-inch screen, it should provide sharp imagery and solid contrasts, as it's VESA DisplayHDR True Black 400-certified.
Computing Monitors don't usually get the limelight, but they're just as important as the components inside your PC. A bad monitor can make even a high-end PC feel like it's several years out of date, while one of the best monitors can make even an aging PC feel like it has a new set of tricks.
Our monitor reviews are designed to help you navigate the vast, overwhelming world of PC displays. Even if you narrow down a price, size, and resolution, you're often bombarded with dozens of options. We're here to help you separate the wheat from the chaff.
Dated Se7en reference Computing Alienware has a new batch of 27-inch monitors it's releasing, but one of them stands out from the rest: the AW2724HF. It's a 27-inch, 1080p display for $460, but it comes with a 360Hz refresh rate, which could make it one of the best gaming monitors on the market.
The big reason why is that Alienware released its AW2524H just a few months ago. That 1080p display with a 500Hz refresh rate costs almost twice as much as the AW2724HF. Although the difference between 360Hz and 500Hz sounds like a lot for competitive gaming, it's really not.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
