Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Guides What is G-Sync? By Kevin Parrish and Jacob Roach Close When shopping for a gaming monitor , you’ll undoubtedly come across a few displays advertising Nvidia’s G-Sync technology. In addition to a hefty price hike, these monitors usually come with gaming-focused features like a fast response time and high refresh rate. To help you know where your money is going, we put together a guide to answer the question: What is G-Sync? What is G-Sync? G-Sync system requirements G-Sync vs. G-Sync Compatible vs. G-Sync Ultimate G-Sync TVs FreeSync: the G-Sync alternative Some downsides In short, G-Sync is a hardware-based adaptive refresh technology that helps prevent screen tearing and stuttering. With a G-Sync monitor, you’ll notice smoother motion while gaming, even at high refresh rates.
What is G-Sync? Nvidia G-Sync is Nvidia’s hardware-based monitor syncing technology. G-Sync solves screen tearing mainly, synchronizing your monitor’s refresh rate with the frames your GPU is pushing out each second.
Nvidia RTX 4090 prices are skyrocketing as stocks run seriously low Nvidia may launch three new Super GPUs to fight back AMD All ray tracing games on PC: AMD Radeon and Nvidia RTX ray tracing Your GPU renders a number of frames each second, and put together, those frames give the impression of smooth motion. Similarly, your monitor refreshes a certain number of times each second, clearing the previous image for the new frames your GPU is rendering. To keep things moving smoothly , your GPU stores upcoming frames in a buffer. The problem is that the buffer and your monitor’s refresh rate may get out of sync, causing a nasty line of two frames stitched together.
V-Sync emerged as a solution.
 This software-based feature essentially forces your GPU to hold frames in its buffer until your monitor is ready to refresh. That solves the screen tearing problem, but it introduces another: Input lag. V-Sync forces your GPU to hold frames it has already rendered, which causes a slight delay between what’s happening in the game and what you see on screen.
Nvidia’s first alternative to V-Sync was Adaptive VSync. Like the older technology, Nvidia’s driver-based solution locked the frame rate to the display’s refresh rate to prevent screen tearing. However, when the GPU struggled, Adaptive VSync unlocked the frame rate until the GPU’s performance improved. Once stable, Adaptive VSync locked the frame rate until the GPU’s performance dropped again.
Nvidia introduced a hardware-based solution in 2013 called G-Sync. It’s based on VESA’s Adaptive-Sync technology, which enables variable refresh rates on the display side. Instead of forcing your GPU to hold frames, G-Sync forces your monitor to adapt its refresh rate depending on the frames your GPU is rendering. That deals with input lag and screen tearing.
However, Nvidia uses a proprietary board that replaces the typical scaler board, which controls everything within the display like decoding image input, controlling the backlight, and so on. A G-Sync board contains 768MB of DDR3 memory to store the previous frame so that it can be compared to the next incoming frame. It does this to decrease input lag.
On the PC end, Nvidia’s driver can fully control the display’s proprietary board. It manipulates the vertical blanking interval, or VBI, which represents the interval between the time when a monitor finishes drawing the current frame and the beginning of the next frame.
With G-Sync active, the monitor becomes a slave to your PC. As the GPU rotates the rendered frame into the primary buffer, the display clears the old image and gets ready to receive the next frame. As the frame rate speeds up and slows down, the display renders each frame accordingly as instructed by your PC. Since the G-Sync board supports variable refresh rates, images are often redrawn at widely varying intervals.
G-Sync system requirements Image used with permission by copyright holder For years, there’s always been one big caveat with G-Sync monitors : You need an Nvidia graphics card.
 Although you still need an Nvidia GPU to fully take advantage of G-Sync — like the recent RTX 3080 — more recent G-Sync displays support HDMI variable refresh rate under the “G-Sync Compatible” banner (more on that in the next section). That means you can use variable refresh rate with an AMD card, though not Nvidia’s full G-Sync module. Outside of a display with a G-Sync banner, here’s what you need: Desktops GPU – GeForce GTX 650 Ti BOOST or newer Driver – R340.52 or higher Laptops connected to G-Sync monitors GPU – GeForce GTX 980M, GTX 970M, or GTX 965M GPU or newer Driver – R340.52 or higher Laptops with built-in G-Sync displays GPU – GeForce GTX 980M, GTX 970M, or GTX 965M or newer Driver – R352.06 or higher G-Sync vs. G-Sync Compatible vs. G-Sync Ultimate Because G-Sync is a hardware solution, certified monitors must include Nvidia’s proprietary board. Fortunately, most major monitor manufacturers like Asus, Philips, BenQ, AOC, Samsung, and LG offer G-Sync displays.
Nvidia currently lists three monitor classes: G-Sync Ultimate, G-Sync, and G-Sync Compatible. Here’s a breakdown of each: G-Sync Compatible 24 to 88 inches Validated no artifacts G-Sync 24 to 38 inches Validated no artifacts Certified +300 tests G-Sync Ultimate 27 to 65 inches Validated no artifacts Certified +300 tests Best quality HDR 1000 nits brightness For G-Sync Ultimate displays, you’ll need a hefty GeForce GPU to handle HDR visuals at 4K.
 They’re certainly not cheap, but they provide the best experience.
As for G-Sync Compatible, it’s a newer category. These displays do not include Nvidia’s proprietary G-Sync board, but they do support variable refresh rates. These panels typically fall under AMD’s FreeSync umbrella, which is a competing technology for Radeon-branded GPUs that doesn’t rely on a proprietary scaler board. Nvidia tests these displays to guarantee “no artifacts” when connected to GeForce-branded GPUs. Consider these displays as affordable alternatives to G-Sync and G-Sync Ultimate displays.
Overall, resolutions range from Full HD to 4K while refresh rates range from 60Hz max to 240Hz max. Nvidia provides a full list of compatible monitors on its website. Prices range from about $100 to well over $1,000, like the Asus’ ROG Swift PG279Q 27-inch monitor selling for $698.
G-Sync TVs Image used with permission by copyright holder Since G-Sync launched in 2013, it has always been specifically for monitors.
 However, Nvidia is expanding. Last year, Nvidia partnered with LG to certify recent LG OLED TVs as G-Sync Compatible. You’ll need some drivers and firmware to get started, which Nvidia outlines on its site. Here are the currently available TVs that support G-Sync: LG BX 2020 (50-, 65-, and 77-inch) LG CX 2020 (50-, 65-, and 77-inch) LG GX 2020 (50-, 65-, and 77-inch) LG B9 2019 (50- and 65-inch) LG C9 2019 (50-, 65-, and 77-inch) LG E9 2019 (50- and 65-inch) FreeSync: the G-Sync alternative Bill Roberson/Digital Trends As we pointed out earlier, AMD’s FreeSync derives from VESA’s Adaptive-Sync technology. One of the main differences is that it doesn’t use proprietary hardware. Rather, FreeSync-certified displays use off-the-shelf scaler boards, which lessens the cost. The only AMD hardware you need for FreeSync is a Radeon-branded GPU. AMD introduced AdaptiveSync support in 2015.
FreeSync has more freedom in supported monitor options, and you don’t need extra hardware. So, FreeSync is a budget-friendly alternative to G-Synch compatible hardware.
Asus’ MG279Q is around $100 less than the aforementioned ROG Swift monitor.
No matter which you choose, each technology has advantages. There are also numerous graphics cards and monitors to up your gaming experience. FreeSync covers graphical glitches caused by monitor and GPU synchronization issues.
Some downsides One downside is the price. Whether you’re looking at a laptop or desktop, G-Sync requires both a capable monitor and graphics card.
 While there are many G-Sync compatible graphics cards, giving you plenty of budgetary options, G-Sync monitors are almost always more expensive than their AMD Freesync counterparts. Compatible laptops may be even more expensive.
In addition, users point to a lack of compatibility with Nvidia’s Optimus technology. Optimus, implemented in many laptops , adjusts graphics performance on the fly to provide the necessary power to graphics-intensive programs and optimize battery life. Because the technology relies on an integrated graphics system, frames move to the screen at a set interval, not as they are created as seen with G-Sync. One can purchase an Optimus-capable device or a G-Sync-capable device, but no laptop exists that can do both.
Editors' Recommendations Nvidia’s new GPUs could be right around the corner Nvidia’s RTX Super might be a massive boost at no extra cost Even older RTX 4090s aren’t safe from melting connector There’s only one use for an RTX 4080 Ti, and it’s not what you think Newegg wants your old GPU — here’s how much you could get Gaming GPUs Computing The 12VHPWR graphics card connector has made a name for itself for all the wrong reasons, with the component frequently melting and causing the death of many a GPU. Now, graphics card manufacturers are apparently testing a replacement that could finally put an end to the sorry saga.
The new version, dubbed 12V-2x6, can reportedly deliver up to 660W of power to a graphics card -- 10% more than the 12VHPWR. Despite that, testing has apparently shown it to be much safer than its predecessor.
Computing AMD’s RX 7800 XT graphics card handily beats Nvidia’s RTX 4070, outperforming it in games and costing less to boot, with the GPU comparison falling firmly in AMD’s favor. The main drawback? Its power consumption is much higher. But it doesn’t have to be that way, as one YouTube channel has shown that undervolting the card could have a notable impact.
When set up right out of the box, AMD’s card has a power draw of 263 watts, while Nvidia’s offering sips just 200 watts. If you’re concerned about your graphics card getting hot and heavy in operation -- and spiking your electricity bill -- the RTX 4070 is probably the better choice.
Computing Ray tracing is a lighting technique that brings an extra level of realism to games. It emulates the way light reflects and refracts in the real world, providing a more believable environment than what's typically seen using static lighting in more traditional games. But what is ray tracing, exactly? And more importantly, how does it work? A good graphics card can use ray tracing to enhance immersion, but not all GPUs can handle this technique. Read on to decide if ray tracing is essential to your gaming experience and if it justifies spending hundreds on an upgraded GPU.
Virtual photons To understand just how ray tracing's revolutionary lighting system works, we need to step back and understand how games previously rendered light, as well as what needs to be emulated for a photorealistic experience.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
