Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Upcoming Nintendo Switch Games Connect Nintendo Switch to TV Free Nintendo Switch Games Cancel Nintendo Switch Online Best Nintendo Switch Games Charge Nintendo Switch Controller Nintendo Switch Accessories Nintendo Switch Controllers Nintendo Switch vs Switch Lite Home Gaming Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Nintendo Switch deals: Don’t pay full price! By Andrew Morrisey Close The Nintendo Switch is one of the most popular gaming consoles. This can sometimes make it difficult to find Nintendo Switch deals, as such popular pieces of tech don’t often see discounts. But that doesn’t mean there aren’t ways to save. There are several discounts taking place on several different Nintendo Switch models, and there’s even some savings to be had on a few of the best Nintendo Switch games.
 Whether you’re looking for a Switch console or some games for your current one, we’ve rounded up all of the best Nintendo Switch deals you can shop right now.
Nintendo Switch OLED (refurbished) — $300, was $350 Nintendo Switch (refurbished) — $270, was $300 Nintendo Switch Lite (refurbished) — $180, was $200 The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom — $50, was $70 Mario Kart 8 Deluxe — $49, was $60 Animal Crossing: New Horizons — $49, was $60 Super Smash Bros. Ultimate — $49, was $60 Nintendo Switch OLED (refurbished) — $300, was $350 Nintendo The Nintendo Switch OLED is a slight upgrade over the original Nintendo Switch. It comes with a 7-inch OLED screen, which is important if you’re looking to get the best image quality possible out of your console. OLED produces a lifelike image with vivid colors and deep contrast, and it could even make the switch a better experience for playing handheld if you don’t also have an OLED TV. This Nintendo Switch OLED model comes refurbished and certified by Geek Squad, which means you can purchase knowing you’re getting a Switch OLED that’s been checked to work properly.
Nintendo Switch (refurbished) — $270, was $300 Nintendo While the Nintendo Switch has been around for some time now, it hasn’t needed any tweaking to offer a fun gaming experience. It delivers the top notch adventures that Nintendo has long been known for, and it packages it into a console that you can connect directly to your TV or take with you just about anywhere. When it’s connected to the TV, you can hop on the couch and enjoy an epic adventure with one of the best TVs , and when you want to game on the go, the Switch delivers with its 6.2-inch touchscreen display. You can even link it with up to seven other Switch consoles for multiplayer fun on the go. This Switch is refurbished and Geek Squad certified, so you can purchase knowing it’s been inspected to work properly.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
Nintendo Switch Lite (refurbished) — $180, was $200 Nintendo There are several Nintendo Switch models on the market now, with the Nintendo Switch Lite offering some old school-style handheld gameplay. If you’re uncertain which model will best suit your Nintendo needs, you can read more about them in our Switch Lite vs. Switch vs. Switch OLED comparison. But if you know what you’re looking for and something small and portable is it, the Nintendo Switch Lite is the Switch for you. This is a turquoise-colored refurbished model, and it comes with Geek Squad-certified refurbishing. This is also a good console for taking on the best single-player Nintendo Switch games.
The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom — $50, was $70 Nintendo Any new Legend of Zelda game is going to make headlines, and The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom has been one of the most popular games since it was released. This is the newest installment of the Legend of Zelda series, and it sees Link adventuring through the lands and skies of Hyrule. This is the sequel to The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild , so if you have your eye on an epic Zelda adventure, you may want to give that title a go as well if you haven’t already.
Mario Kart 8 Deluxe — $49, was $60 Nintendo / Nintendo Mario Kart 8 Deluxe is Nintendo’s most recent installment of its classic racing game. It stars everyone’s favorite Nintendo characters and allows you to play locally in up to 4-player multiplayer. It features revised battle modes on new and returning battle courses, and is just as fun as a single-player game as it is racing against your friends. This game is also good for kids, as it has a new Smart Steering feature that makes driving and staying on the track easy and much more fun for novice players.
Animal Crossing: New Horizons — $49, was $60 Nintendo Animal Crossing: New Horizons offers an island full of possibilities. You can escape to a deserted island and create your own paradise as you explore. The Animal Crossing series has long been a fan favorite, and with New Horizons you can enjoy Nintendo’s take on simulation games. You’ll get to know the residents of your island quickly, as well as learn how to garden, fish, decorate, and even hunt for fossils. With Animal Crossing: New Horizons you can create your own personal getaway and customize everything about it.
Super Smash Bros. Ultimate — $49, was $60 Nintendo Nintendo fighting action is back with Super Smash Bros. Ultimate.
 Much like Mario Kart 8 , Super Smash Bros. Ultimate features a huge lineup of Nintendo characters to choose from. Instead of racing, however, they’ll be meeting for combat. This game is another in a series that both improves upon and maintains the nostalgia of earlier editions. New fighters are joined by combined rosters of every past Super Smash Bros.
game, and you can play locally, online, in TV mode, in tabletop mode, and in handheld mode.
Editors' Recommendations Nintendo Switch Black Friday deals: Consoles, games, and more Don’t pay full price for a Nintendo Switch OLED — save $80 Best video game deals: PlayStation 5, Xbox S and X, Nintendo Switch Searching for Nintendo Switch games? Don’t miss these deals This is the best Nintendo Switch deal we’ve seen in a while Deals Cheapest Prices Nintendo Nintendo Switch Deals You shouldn't miss Walmart's The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild Cyber Monday deal if you're a Nintendo Switch owner who doesn't yet have the open-world game in your library. The retailer is offering one of Link's latest adventures for just $35, after a $15 discount to its original price of $50. It's one of the best Cyber Monday deals available for the Nintendo Switch, as it remains one of the most sought-after games for the console nearly five years after its release.
Today's best The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild Cyber Monday deal Deals Nintendo Switch doesn't offer deals often, so we're happy to announce a Nintendo Switch Controller Black Friday Deal. Nintendo Switch controllers are usually $80, and this deal puts them at $69 for a savings of $11.
 While this isn't the most considerable discount we've ever seen, it is huge for Nintendo because it's difficult to even get your hands on actual Nintendo Switch products these days, which makes this one of the best Black Friday gaming deals still available. And with the holidays fast approaching and the best Black Friday deals starting to wrap up, you're not going to want to wait on this one since we don't know how long supplies will last.
Today's best Nintendo Switch controller Black Friday deal Deals Owners of the Nintendo Switch, Nintendo Switch Lite, and Nintendo Switch OLED will want to check out this year's Nintendo Switch game Black Friday deals for possible additions to their gaming libraries. If you don't know where to start, you should browse GameStop's Black Friday gaming deals, which include discounts on Nintendo Switch games across different genres. Some of the best Black Friday deals are already selling out though, so if you want to buy games at lower prices, you shouldn't hesitate to finalize your purchases right away.
Today's best Nintendo Switch game Black Friday deals Scott Pilgrim vs. The World: The Game Complete Edition -- $8, was $15 Plants vs. Zombies: Battle for Neighborville Complete Edition -- $14, was $40 Jumanji: The Video Game -- $15, was $20 Sonic Colors: Ultimate -- $20, was $40 FIFA 22 -- $20, was $40 NBA 2K22 -- $26, was $60 Minecraft -- $28, was $30 Super Mario Odyssey -- $35, was $60 New Super Mario Bros. U Deluxe -- $40, was $60 Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
