Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Best Bluetooth speaker deals: Save on Bose, Sonos, JBL, and more By John Alexander Close Take your music with you wherever you go by buying a Bluetooth speaker. They come in all shapes and sizes, from budget-friendly options to feature-packed devices. You should always be on the lookout for savings though, and to help you with your search, we’ve rounded up some of the best Bluetooth speaker deals that you can shop right now, including products from popular brands like Bose, Sonos, and JBL. These discounts won’t last forever though, so if you see an offer that matches your needs and fits within your budget, it’s highly recommended that you proceed with the purchase right away.
Hoey Portable — $18, was $26 Ortizan Portable — $30, was $50 Sony SRS-XB13 — $35, was $60 JBL Flip 6 — $90, was $130 Bose SoundLink Revolve II — $179, was $219 Sony SRS-XG300 — $200, was $350 JBL XTREME3 Portable — $280, was $380 Sony SRS-XP500 — $300, was $400 Sony SRS-XG500 — $330, was $500 Hoey Portable — $18, was $26.
The Hoey Portable Bluetooth speaker provides incredible value for the price. It’s an outside speaker that fits in your palm, ready to be taken with you as you go. The combination of dual-pairing and a 66-foot Bluetooth range give you an incredible amount of versatility and range as you move about with the Hoey Portable. At 50% volume, this small speaker’s battery can last for 20 hours. Speakers with this capability and price point are perfect for camping or other outdoor activities where you wouldn’t want to risk higher-quality equipment or anti-socially wear the best earbuds , but still want some sound accompaniment.
Ortizan Portable — $30, was $50 Image used with permission by copyright holder Ortizan’s portable speaker offers a miniature, holdable rave experience that you can take with you. In its miniature 3.1 x 3.1 x 6.7-inch, 1-pound body you’ll find a product that — from a strictly feature-based standpoint — rival those of much higher-tier products. It’s IPX7 waterproof which, to make a long story short, means it can take a beating in the getting wet department without yielding to the elements. The speakers last 30 hours on a single charge and charge via USB-C. If you like the RGB lighting of gaming speakers , then you’ll love how the Ortizan Portable Speakers kick out lights to the beat. Finally, use dual-pairing to connect two Ortizans together for wider sound coverage and stereo-style sound. While you’ll need more expensive gear to get high-fidelity, you can still choose between 3 EQ settings to get a sound you like. The Ortizan Portable Speakers are perfect for carefree outdoor fun.
Sony SRS-XB13 — $35, was $60.
It’s typical of small things to not have a deep voice. Sony, seeking to counteract this while keeping the price low, made the SRS-XB13 with extra bass. With an IP67 rating, it has some protection from both hard particles and water, making it perfect for the beach or poolside. Overall, this is a casual device that even comes with a strap that you loop around your beach umbrella, backpack, or tanning chair. Buy one for a decent on-the-go experience or grab two, connect them together, and get budget stereo sound.
JBL Flip 6 — $90, was $130 JBL The best portable Bluetooth speaker in our list of the best speakers , the JBL Flip 6 continues the winning streak of an impressive line of Bluetooth speakers from one of the most recognizable names in the industry. It’s engineered to deliver crystal clear and powerful sound, and it comes with an IP67 waterproof and dustproof rating so it can go with you anywhere. The device can deliver up to 12 hours of playtime on a single charge, and with JBL’s PartyBoost technology, you can pair two of them for stereo sound or multiples for wider coverage.
Bose SoundLink Revolve II — $179, was $219.
For consistent and uniform 360-degree sound that’s also deep and loud, you’ll have to go for the Bose SoundLink Revolve II. The Bluetooth speaker will provide you with immersive sound, and it with its built-in speaker, you can accept calls and access your preferred digital assistant. The Bose SoundLink Revolve II’s seamless aluminum body is durable with an IP55 rating for water and dust resistance, and its battery can last up to 13 hours before you need to recharge.
Sony SRS-XG300 — $200, was $350 Sony / .
The Sony XG300 is a portable speaker with water and dust protection, a convenient handle, and a stylish exterior. Its ends have LED-based mood lighting, all controllable with the Sony Music Center app, which also lets you queue up music and connect multiple Sony speakers together in the system’s ‘Party Connect’ mode. If that’s not enough, you can also check out the Fiestable app, which also allows for karaoke and motion control. With one speaker, two tweeters, a mic that allows for simultaneous chatting via echo cancellation, and a 25-hour battery life, the Sony XG300 is sure to last through your next party and give it the ambiance you prefer.
JBL XTREME3 Portable — $280, was $380.
The JBL XTREME3 Portable is an IP67 dust and water resisting portable speaker for your outings. While it can be appreciate for its music quality and it ability to be connected to two phones at once — allowing a couple to play tunes from their own phones back and forth — the form factor of this speaker is where it is at. Even when something is resistant to the elements, it doesn’t mean you want to bury it in them. The JBL XTREME3 Portable has a solid bottom, with a smile-like raising of the ends so that only the toughest part need rest on the ground. Its top houses solid, sturdy loops for an optional back strap, allowing for easy carrying. Finally, it has a bottle opener and includes a power bank , allowing you to share its 15-hour battery life with other devices in a pinch.
Sony SRS-XP500 — $300, was $400.
Elevate your party with the Sony SRS-XP500, a Bluetooth speaker that provides powerful sound and deep bass, while maintaining clarity even at higher volume levels. Brighten the crowd’s mood with its colorful LEDs, which you can control through the Fiestable app. The Sony SRS-XP500 can last through the whole night with its battery life of up to 20 hours, and just 10 minutes of charging through USB-C replenishes 80 minutes of playback. It can also withstand spills with its IPX4 splash resistance.
Sony SRS-XG500 — $330, was $500.
If you want to elevate your to the next level, you should check out the Sony SRS-XG500, one of the highest-rated portable speakers on Best Buy. And at this price differential, they represent one of the best speakers you can get for the outdoors at the moment. They carry 30 hours of battery life off of a single charge, IP66 resistance for sand and water, and let both a mic and a guitar be plugged into them. Connect up with the Fiestable app or Sony Music Center app to connect to other Sony speakers, queue up your favorite karaoke hits, and customize the ring lights on the ends of the speakers. A Sony SRS-XG500 has the special X-Balanced speaker unit inside, a special Sony tech for creating bass and higher sound levels that maintain clarity, even in portable devices. It also contains two 0.98-inch tweeters, and two 4.3-inch woofers with a 20Hz minimum frequency response, allowing for deep bass response.
Editors' Recommendations A massive Sonos Black Friday sale just started at Best Buy The best 70-inch TV Black Friday deals from LG, Samsung, and more Best Buy is almost giving away this 55-inch QLED TV today Best Samsung TV Black Friday Deals: Save on 4K and 8K TVs now Best Black Friday 8K TV deals: Save on LG, Sony, and Samsung Deals Cheapest Prices Audio / Video You may or may not be aware, but out of all the different types of TV technologies QLED vs OLED panels are totally different. QLED stands for Quantum Light-Emitting Diode which means it uses millions of nanoparticles or Quantum Dots to supercharge its color, delivering a vibrant, gorgeous picture. You can read our quantum dot explainer to learn how it all works in more detail. The bigger dilemma, at least right now, is that QLED panels tend to be very expensive, unless you can grab them at a hefty discount. You'll want to listen up, though, because at this very moment there are a ton of early Black Friday deals to shop. Many of those deals even offer eye-popping discounts on QLED TVs from some of the biggest brands on the market like Samsung, TCL, Vizio, and more. We've rounded up all the best, and it can't hurt to take a look. Since it's discount season, make sure to compare these prices with OLED TV Black Friday deals as well.
The best QLED TV Black Friday deal We tend to go with a more affordable option when picking out the "best" deals, and this pick is no exception, but don't let that fool you. TCL has made an excellent TV with a lot of great features, like the superior 4K quality resolution, mini-LED technology with uncompromising contrast and brightness, and hands-free voice controls accessible via Google Assistant. But it all hearkens back to that price, and man is that price juicy. Don't sleep on this one.
Audio / Video No home theater is complete without the proper audio. Yeah, sure, you start with a fantastic, maybe even massive TV, currently on sale in Black Friday TV deals, and spring for the bells and whistles while you're at it. But nothing feels more immersive than audio that surrounds you, making it sound like jets are flying overhead, explosions are in your living room, and the music is permeating from somewhere high in the sky. You could spend some time scouring through the best Black Friday deals to see if you can find some audio and soundbar deals, but we'll do you one better. We've rounded up all of the best Black Friday soundbar deals right here in one place. That way, there's no need to jump around, unless you're listening to some House of Pain.
Best Vizio soundbar Black Friday deals VIZIO has a solid mix of affordable, mid-grade, and premium options. Here are all of the best VIZIO soundbar Black Friday deals we could find: Audio / Video Black Friday deals are the perfect time to grab luxury items you couldn't quite justify buying the rest of the year. If one of those items is a Bluetooth speaker, here are all the deals you need to know about. Below we've pulled a list of the best Black Friday Bluetooth speaker deals, including brands like JBL and Sony. But let's start with our absolute favorite currently on sale: The Marshall Emberton.
Best Bluetooth speaker Black Friday deal This Marshall Emberton is on sale for $116 after a $54 price cut from its initial $170. We picked the Marshall Emberton as our favorite Bluetooth speaker deal for one simple reason: We love it. The Marshall Emberton II, which is an all around improvement on the first model, was our pick for the absolute best Bluetooth speaker of 2023. Unfortunately the II is not currently on sale (it's Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
