Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Features Assassin’s Creed Mirage ending explained: What happens to Basim, Nehal, and Roshan By Tomas Franzese Close Assassins’ Creed Mirage is out now, bringing the series back to basics with a game focused on one of Assassin’s Creed Valhalla’s most intriguing characters. This adventure follows Basim as he goes from Anbar street thief to expert Assassin in Baghdad while hunting down members of The Order of the Ancients. As a prequel, there are some things about Basim as a character you might already know going in. Still, learning exactly how Basim stumbled upon these revelations is entertaining itself.
How does Assassin’s Creed Mirage begin Taking on The Order of the Ancients Assassin’s Creed Mirage’s ending Ubisoft Assassin’s Creed Mirage is shorter than other games in the series (at around 12 to 17 hours to complete ), but most of the noteworthy reveals are saved for the story’s ending. If you want to know how Basim discovers who he truly is or just need to read a recap of the narrative’s major events, this is an overview of everything that happens in Assassin’s Creed Mirage and how it concludes in spectacular fashion.
How does Assassin’s Creed Mirage begin Assassin’s Creed Mirage begins with a brief narration from modern-day Assassin Brotherhood Mentor William Miles. In the game’s only Animus-referencing narrative segment, he admits that he was worried people would learn the wrong lesson from Basim’s story. He now recognizes that his story “has much to teach us” and is now sharing it. He then sets the stage for its ninth-century Baghdad setting, the threat that is The Order of the Ancients, and Basim’s humble origins and eventual challenging of the Creed’s ideals.
This intro then transitions into a dream sequence for Basim, where a creepy jinni attacks him. Upon awakening, he’s comforted by his friend Nehal, and they set out to complete a contract for their friend Dervis in Anbar, a smaller city close to Baghdad. After pocketing some people and stealing a shipping ledger, Basim and Nehal learn that Dervis is working with a member of Hidden Ones named Roshan.
Roshan initially rejects Basim when he asks to come with her on a mission to retrieve a chest from the Caliph’s Winter Palace, but he and Nehal end up sneaking off and trying to get it anyway. Upon successfully infiltrating, they learn that the Caliph is working with The Order of the Ancients. They get to the chest and find a mysterious device inside it that gives him a vision of one man torturing another. The Caliph catches Basim doing this, and Nehal stabs and kills the Caliph.
Ubisoft While Basim and Nehal escape and he discards that device, Roshan recovers it and explains that Basim is now a wanted man and in danger. After discovering that many of the children he helped protect in Anbar were murdered due to his actions, he goes with Roshan and starts training to become an Assassin for the Hidden Ones. While he struggles to balance his mind and body, he eventually passes the necessary tests at Alamut to become a Hidden One and gets an eagle companion named Enkidu.
Taking on The Order of the Ancients Fellow Hidden One Nur eventually returns to Alamut from Baghdad injured, causing Roshan and Basim to return to Baghdad to take on The Order of the Ancients. From here, a large chunk of the game is spent taking down The Order of the Ancient members. Along the way, Basim assists a growing Zanj Rebellion led by a man named Ali and reconciles with Nehal, who tempts Basim to learn more about The Order of the Ancients and the device they found despite Roshan’s refusal to let Basim know more about those things.
Basim assassinates The Order of Ancients members Al-Ghul, Al-Rabisu, Al-Pairka, and Al-Mardikhwar, honing his skills, and getting more ingrained and friendly with the people of Baghdad as he does so. That said, Basim gets another horrible jinni vision every time he kills one of those people. Despite frustrations at Roshan’s overprotective leadership, Basim still does his best to stay loyal and carry out his assassinations for the Hidden Ones.
Eventually, Basim discovers that the Head of the Harem Qabiha is The Order of the Ancient’s influential leader, Al-Bahamut. Roshan initially says that she’ll be the one to kill Al-Bahamut, afraid Basim will be tempted by the information she possesses. Basim convinces Roshan to let him do the assassination, and he heads to the palace to confront her. First, he finds her son Abu in its Bathhouse. He recognizes that Basim was there when his father died and asks if Basim doesn’t plan to stop until everyone is dead.
Ubisoft Basim lets him live and confronts Qabiha in a secret passage underneath the palace. Qabiha taunts Basim, saying that he doesn’t know his true nature. Instead of killing her, Basim does what Nehal suggests and asks Qabiha who he is. She says the secret is buried under Alamut, but Roshan kills her before Qabiha reveals more or takes him there. Roshan urges Basim to purge himself of his internal strife and be content just being an Assassin, but Basim refuses. Angry, Roshan tells Basim she’ll kill him if he returns to Alamut and leaves.
Assassin’s Creed Mirage’s ending At the hideout where they stayed as street thieves, Nehal convinces Basim to go to Alamut to find answers. They go on a long and perilous journey across the desert to get there, leaving Baghdad behind. When they get there, Basim is ambushed by members of The Order of the Ancients who gained political permission to attack the base. Upon reawakening after being saved by a recovered Nur, he fights through the enemy forces left here, making his way to the temple in search of Nehal and answers.
Once he’s at the temple, another Assassin named Rayhan explains that Basim is the key to the temple beneath Alamut. Basim decides to unlock it and get what’s there before The Order of the Ancients can, but Roshan tries to stop him. They fight, and Basim wins, stabbing but not killing Roshan. After defeating her, Basim goes further into the temple, reuniting with Nehal, who oddly seems to have an understanding of the place.
Ubisoft This is a temple of the Isu, the civilization that inhabited the game’s world before humanity. Within it, Basim finds what looks like a mix between a stasis pod and a sarcophagus. After opening it, though, he sees Nehal. This leads to a significant revelation that recontextualizes a lot of scenes: Nehal technically doesn’t exist and never has. It was Basim who killed the Caliph at the start and chose to defy The Hidden Ones. Nehal and the jinni in his dreams are just aspects of his personality connected to Loki, the Isu Aesir he saw tortured when he first stumbled upon the device in the winter palace.
Basim quells the jinni and, despite being sad he’ll never see her again, merges with Nehal to regain the memories and knowledge of Loki. Despite his defiance, Basim re-emerges from the temple and is let back into the Hidden Ones. This comes at a cost: Roshan abandons the Hidden Ones, and Enkidu rejects Basim, clawing at him and leaving a scar on his face. Basim ends the game eager to reunite with the Isu who tortured him. This neatly leads this game’s ending into the story of Assassin’s Creed Valhalla , where Basim confronts Eivor, the reincarnation of Odin.
Assassin’s Creed Mirage is available now for PC, PS4, PS5 , Xbox One, and Xbox Series X /S.
Editors' Recommendations Assassin’s Creed Nexus VR turned me into a sociopath (and I love it) Assassin’s Creed Mirage takes the series back to 2007 in all the right ways Assassin’s Creed Mirage is coming out earlier than expected Everything announced at the June 2023 Ubisoft Forward Ubisoft Forward 2023: How to watch and what to expect Action Games Features Gaming Assassin's Creed Mirage got a new gameplay trailer during today's PlayStation Showcase. Ubisoft's next open-world game will launch on October 12, and preorders for the upcoming game are now open.
Assassin's Creed Mirage Official Gameplay Trailer Gaming Respawn Entertainment’s Star Wars Jedi: Survivor finally launched on April 28, continuing the story of Jedi Knight Cal Kestis during the Reign of the Empire era. Its predecessor, Star Wars Jedi: Fallen Order, ended with Kal, his mentor Cere, Nightsister Merrin, and Mantis pilot Greez destroying a Holocron with the locations of force-sensitive children on it. Star Wars Jedi: Survivor follows Cal five years after the events of that game as he struggles to balance his well-being with his fight against the Empire and uncovers a new threat linked to The High Republic and a mysterious planet.
Star Wars Jedi: Survivor is a lengthy adventure as it takes over 20 hours to experience a story with quite a few twists and turns. Whether you’ve beaten the game and are looking for a recap or want to know how Cal Kestis’ adventures continue, this is a rundown of what happens in Star Wars Jedi: Survivor and how it all coalesces into a somber ending.
This article contains spoilers for Star Wars Jedi: Survivor.
How does Star Wars Jedi: Survivor begin Star Wars Jedi: Survivor begins with Cal Kestis seemingly captured on Coruscant. While it initially seems like he’s being turned over into the custody of a Utapauian senator, it turns out this is all part of an elaborate heist with a new crew that Cal has been running with since the Mantis crew from the first game disbanded. During this mission, Cal meets Bode Akuna, who tells Cal he’s fighting to protect his daughter Kata from the Empire.
They are eventually able to track down the Utapauian senator’s damaged ship, and all seems to be going well. Unfortunately, they are then ambushed by an Imperial Squad led by the Ninth Sister from the Fallen Order. Cal kills the Ninth Sister and escapes on the Mantis, but everyone but him and Bode is killed, and the Mantis is heavily damaged. With no other choice, he flies to the planet Koboh, where Greez is now living, and crash lands on the planet.
After fighting some of the Bedlam Raiders, led by a powerful Gen’Dai named Rayvis, Cal reunites with Greez. While Greez encourages Cal to settle down, Cal refuses and looks for a piece of technology in the caves beneath Greez’s Saloon. While doing this, he discovers an old ruin from The High Republic era, and frees a droid named ZN-A4 (or Zee) for short, who was sent on a mission by a Jedi Knight named Santari Khri during the High Republic era to find the “Key to Tanalorr.” Cal investigates this, learning that Santari Khri and a Jedi named Dagan Gera found Tanalorr, a hidden planet beyond the dangerous Koboh Abyss, where they wanted to build a new Jedi base. Cal decides to free Dagan from his Bacta Tank, but he quickly betrays Cal after learning of the Jedi’s fall, adamant about retaking Tanalorr with the help of Rayvis, who owes him a life debt. Now, Cal, Bode, and Greez make it their duty to stop Dagan and potentially claim Tanalorr as a safe haven for themselves.
The quest to stop Dagan Gera Following this encounter, Cal, Greez, and Bode, who found Cal on Koboh, decide to look for Tanalorr and make it their new home together. Looking for any existing information on Tanalorr, the group decides to go to Jedha, where Cal’s mentor Cere Junda is working with Jedi Master Edo Cordova to rebuild the Jedi Archives and support the Hidden Path, which protects force-sensitive people from the Empire.
Gaming After a weekend of confusion, Ubisoft has confirmed that Assassin's Creed Mirage does not currently have an Adults Only rating. The publisher chalks the issue up to a mistake and reaffirms that the game will not feature gambling, as an Xbox listing indicated.
Following Saturday's Ubisoft Forward stream, fans noticed that the Xbox store page for Assassin's Creed Mirage had an Adults Only rating attached to it. The rating came with some standard warnings, noting the game had intense violence, partial nudity, and more. What really caught players' attention was the inclusion of "Real Gambling" in the rating, which seemed to be what earned the game its AO rating.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
