Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Features Assassin’s Creed Nexus VR turned me into a sociopath (and I love it) By Giovanni Colantonio Close I’ve done a lot of memorable things in VR this year. I’ve climbed mountains , commanded hundreds of tiny people , and even paddled through the seas in a kayak. With Assassin’s Creed Nexus VR , I get to add another virtual feat to that list: I’ve jumped down on top of an unsuspecting guard and plunged a hidden blade into his throat with pinpoint accuracy. And I’m a little worried about how delighted I am by that.
Ubisoft has been a long-time supporter of VR going back to early standouts like Eagle Flight , but Assassin’s Creed Nexus VR finds the publisher making its full leap of faith into the tech. It’s not another virtual “experience” based on one of its popular IPs, but rather a full-throated Assassin’s Creed game with just about everything you’d expect in its console counterpart. There’s sneaking, parkour, lock picking, pickpocketing, death-defying leaps, and even a wealth of collectibles hidden in small-scale recreations of historical locations. All that’s missing is the open-world glut — and that’s arguably its best quality.
Assassin’s Creed Nexus VR isn’t just a strong use of virtual reality ; it’s one of Ubisoft’s finest games in years. By smartly working within the limitations of the tech, the tired Assassin’s Creed formula got the rejuvenation it desperately needed. Ubisoft may be committed to pumping out enormous open-world games with machine-like efficiency, but its heart might just be in VR.
iPhone 15 Pro can natively run the latest Resident Evil and Assassin’s Creed games Assassin’s Creed Mirage: release date, trailers, gameplay, and more Meta Quest+ subscription is the VR version of PS Plus and Xbox Live Gold Into the Animus Assassin’s Creed Nexus VR puts players in the middle of an Abstergo operation to recover lost artifacts from the past. It’s a loose MacGuffin story that’s really just there to justify a “greatest hits” setup, as players embody three classic assassins: Ezio, Kassandra, and Connor. Each one has its own set of missions in their era and share the same basic mechanics, which build on one another across the interweaving stories. Each chapter takes place in a bite-sized explorable city dotted with a few collectibles and optional challenges like timed parkour gauntlets. The primary objectives are the same as they would be in any Assassin’s Creed game : infiltrate guarded locations, swipe key objects, and assassinate targets.
What’s impressive here is just how much of the Assassin’s Creed formula is retained in a sleeker structure — and just how fantastic most of it feels. Parkour is as simple as holding down the A button while dashing to magnetically zip between landing spots, letting me seamlessly dash across the rooftops of Italy. I can easily climb any building I see too by grabbing onto ledges with the side triggers of my Meta Quest controllers. One awe-inspiring climb had me scaling the masts of a massive ship, gingerly walking across ropes to reach a scouting point.
Ubisoft Physicality improves just about every piece of a formula that’s grown rote over the years. Take stealth, for instance. When I sneak through guard-filled rooms here, I actually find myself kneeling on the ground in real life and hiding behind barrels to avoid enemy sightlines. Everything feels so intuitive that I hardly need a tutorial. I know to pick up an object and throw it to cause a distraction. When I go to mark a guard, all I have to do is look directly at them for a second. I’m the one actively sneaking around rather than just someone pressing buttons to simulate it.
That feeling enhances the series’ signature assassinations most of all. When I quietly get behind an unsuspecting guard, I flick my wrist to extend my hidden blade and jab it into their back for an instant kill. It makes me feel like a sociopath when I say this, but that action alone is one of the most satisfying things I’ve experienced in a VR game to date. When I complete a Connor mission that ends with me rushing into a public hanging and killing the executioner in front of the crowd, I feel like an assassin in a way that the series has simply never accomplished before.
Not every piece is as clean. Full combat can be sloppy, as I need to swing my sword or ax at the right moment to parry attacks. I still can’t quite get the timing right amid inconsistent motion detection, which just leads me to wildly swing at my foe to take them out. Advanced platforming techniques can be confusing too. Swinging motions that require me to throw my arms in a certain direction to hop between far-off footholds often leave me at the bottom of a pit. I’ve fallen to my death a few times too just from a hand coming detached from a ledge unexpectedly.
Ubisoft Those sloppy moments feel small in the grand scheme of Assassin’s Creed Nexus VR , as Ubisoft nails enough little details to make up for those lulls. I love how it feels to grab my bow from behind one shoulder and an arrow from another, lining up a perfect shot that takes down a Bostonian patrolling a far-off roof. There’s a simple pleasure in scaling the side of a boat, grabbing a guard’s leg, and yanking him into the ocean for a quiet kill. Even little details, like using my hidden blade to slash the rope off an alarm bell, make it feel like the most immersive VR adventure since Half-Life: Alyx.
Assassin’s Creed Nexus VR feels like the future for Ubisoft, a publisher that’s struggled to keep its signature “map game” design fresh in recent years. By being forced to cut down the tiresome open-world cruft , Nexus spends much more time delivering satisfying, moment-to-moment action. Every old idea I’ve done a hundred times, like swan diving into hay bales, feels entirely new in a physical context that makes me feel like the one inside the Animus. If you’ve long missed the magical spark that made early entries feel so special, Nexus VR will take you back to the past and into the future in the same exhilarating breath.
Assassin’s Creed Nexus VR is available now on Meta Quest headsets.
Editors' Recommendations Assassin’s Creed Mirage ending explained: What happens to Basim, Nehal, and Roshan Assassin’s Creed Mirage takes the series back to 2007 in all the right ways Assassin’s Creed Mirage is coming out earlier than expected Assassin’s Creed Mirage gameplay trailer shows a return to franchise roots Assassin’s Creed Mirage does not have an Adults Only rating or loot boxes Action Games Features Virtual Reality Gaming Ubisoft devoted an entire stream segment to the Assassin's Creed franchise at Ubisoft Forward 2022. The block saw the announcement of four projects coming from the series, including a mobile game, a new mainline title, an experience hub, and another flagship game coming alongside the rest.
Assassin's Creed Codename Red - Reveal Trailer | Ubisoft Forward 2022 Gaming Ubisoft has provided more information about Assassin's Creed Mirage, which takes place in Baghdad and is set 20 years before the events of Assassin's Creed Valhalla. The open-world game will launch in 2023 for PC, PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, Xbox One, Xbox Series X/S, and Amazon Luna.
Assassin's Creed Mirage: Cinematic World Premiere | #UbiForward Gaming During today's Ubisoft Forward stream, Ubisoft announced that it has partnered up with Netflix to bring several projects over to the streaming platform. Valiant Hearts 2, Mighty Quest 2, and an Assassin's Creed mobile game will be coming exclusively to Netflix. Plus, there's a live-action Assassin's Creed show coming to Netflix as well.
Few other details about the Assassin's Creed mobile game or the TV show were revealed, but Valiant Hearts 2 is a brand new game announcement. it's a sequel to 2014's Valiant Hearts: The Great War.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
