Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best Call of Duty games, ranked By Joseph Yaden and Sam Hill Close Few video game series are as influential and popular as Call of Duty.
 The annualized franchise throws players into fast-paced battles across various historical time periods — along with fictional eras, as well. Call of Duty has taken us to World War II, the Cold War, a modern setting, and even to the future.
Although it’s one of the most successful video game franchises out there, Call of Duty’s quality varies significantly, with some fantastic entries in the series, but many mediocre ones as well. But which Call of Duty games are worth your time and which ones should you skip? To answer that question, we’ve ranked all the mainline entries in the series, with details about why you should or shouldn’t play that particular game.
These are all the Call of Duty games ranked from worst to best.
20. Call of Duty 3 Wii, PlayStation 2, PlayStation 3, Xbox, Xbox 360 Shooter Treyarch, Exact Entertainment Activision November 07, 2006 Read less 19. Call of Duty: Infinite Warfare PC (Microsoft Windows), PlayStation 4, Xbox One Shooter, Adventure Infinity Ward Activision November 04, 2016 Read less 18. Call of Duty: Modern Warfare III PC (Microsoft Windows), PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X|S Shooter Sledgehammer Games Activision November 10, 2023 Modern Warfare 3 was meant to mark the 20th anniversary of the franchise but ultimately fell flat and is one of the most disappointing launches in the series history. A lackluster campaign relied too much on nostalgia, got lazy with Open Combat Missions that were basically single-player Warzone missions, and was overall too generic to be exciting. While the multiplayer aspect of the game was as fun as always, this was the first COD entry to launch without any new, original maps, instead settling for map remakes from MW3 (2011).
“Coupling all of these aggravating elements with a single-player mode that feels cobbled together by Dr. Frankenstein, Modern Warfare 3 is the most substantial step back for a franchise that has been inching forward for nearly a decade, wrote Billy Givens in Digital Trends’ two-and-a-half-star review of the game.
 “The short and forgettable story isn’t remotely absorbing, and its multiplayer has no identity in an ever-expanding sea of more unique shooters.” Read less 17. Call of Duty: Ghosts PC (Microsoft Windows), PlayStation 3, Xbox 360, Wii U, PlayStation 4, Xbox One Shooter Neversoft Entertainment, Infinity Ward, Raven Software, Treyarch Activision November 05, 2013 Read less 16. Call of Duty: Black Ops III PC (Microsoft Windows), PlayStation 3, Mac, PlayStation 4, Xbox One Shooter, Adventure Treyarch Activision November 06, 2015 Read less 15. Call of Duty PC (Microsoft Windows), PlayStation 3, Xbox 360, Mac Shooter Infinity Ward Activision October 29, 2003 Read less 14. Call of Duty: Advanced Warfare PC (Microsoft Windows), PlayStation 3, Xbox 360, PlayStation 4, Xbox One Shooter Sledgehammer Games Activision, Square Enix November 03, 2014 Read less 13. Call of Duty: Black Ops 4 PC (Microsoft Windows), PlayStation 4, Xbox One Shooter Treyarch Activision October 12, 2018 Read less 12. Call of Duty: Black Ops Cold War PC (Microsoft Windows), PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X|S Shooter Treyarch Activision November 13, 2020 Read less 11. Call of Duty: Vanguard PC (Microsoft Windows), PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X|S Shooter Sledgehammer Games Activision November 05, 2021 Read less 10. Call of Duty: Modern Warfare II PC (Microsoft Windows), PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X|S Shooter Infinity Ward Activision October 28, 2022 Read less 9. Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3 Wii, PC (Microsoft Windows), PlayStation 3, Xbox 360 Shooter, Tactical, Adventure Sledgehammer Games, Infinity Ward Activision November 08, 2011 Read less 8. Call of Duty: Black Ops II PC (Microsoft Windows), PlayStation 3, Xbox 360, Wii U Shooter Treyarch Activision, Square Enix November 12, 2012 Read less 7. Call of Duty: WWII PC (Microsoft Windows), PlayStation 4, Xbox One Shooter Sledgehammer Games Activision November 02, 2017 Read less 6. Call of Duty: World at War Wii, PC (Microsoft Windows), PlayStation 3, Xbox 360 Shooter, Adventure Treyarch Activision November 11, 2008 Read less 5. Call of Duty 2 PC (Microsoft Windows), Xbox 360, Mac Shooter Infinity Ward Activision October 25, 2005 Read less 4. Call Of Duty: Modern Warfare PC (Microsoft Windows), PlayStation 4, Xbox One Shooter Infinity Ward Activision October 25, 2019 Read less 3. Call of Duty: Black Ops Wii, PC (Microsoft Windows), PlayStation 3, Xbox 360, Mac Shooter Treyarch Activision, Square Enix, Aspyr Media November 09, 2010 Read less 2. Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 2 PC (Microsoft Windows), PlayStation 3, Xbox 360, Mac Shooter Infinity Ward, n-Space Activision November 10, 2009 Read less 1. Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare PC (Microsoft Windows), PlayStation 3, Xbox 360, Mac Shooter, Simulator Infinity Ward, n-Space, Treyarch Activision November 05, 2007 Read less No matter how much you love the Call of Duty franchise, you must admit that some iterations are just better than others. With our advice, you know which games to avoid, so you can start playing the cream of the crop immediately. By following our recommendations on the best games in the series, you’ll get to experience all of their strengths and none of their weaknesses.
The Call of Duty series has successfully produced a line of outstanding shooter games. One of the things that players love about the franchise is its consistency. Players know what to expect from the series, and are rarely disappointed, so they go out and buy release after release. The series gains more avid players and repeat customers by the minute, reaping enormous profits, which they utilize to create the next best game in the series and perpetuate its legendary legacy as one of the best gaming franchises in history.
Editors' Recommendations The best handheld gaming PCs you can buy Best Perk-a-Colas in Modern Warfare 3 zombies, ranked The best field upgrades for Modern Warfare 3 Zombies Modern Warfare 3 Zombies: Mercenary Convoy guide Modern Warfare 3 Zombies: tips and tricks for MWZ Gaming It's time to grab your gear, reload your weapons, and get your squad ready for the final act in Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3. This entry takes the multiplayer mode the series has built itself on to the next level, with the traditional multiplayer suite, zombies, and integration with Warzone 2.0. This is one of the biggest events of the year for many players, and you will probably be organizing your friends and family to all jump in and play together. But is that possible in Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3? Cross-platform support isn't quite as ubiquitous as we hope yet, so let's breach this topic and extract the intel.
Does Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3 have cross-platform support? Yes, Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3 has full cross-platform support. This means that you can squad up with players on any console -- PlayStation, Xbox, or PC -- and enter the battlefield together. This is true for any online mode in the game.
Gaming Netflix announced a slew of new games coming its mobile gaming platform. The list is headlined by Supergiant Games' 2020 hit Hades, which will be available on mobile devices for any Netflix subscriber when it launches.
Netflix Games launched in 2021 and continues to expand its offering of titles. The company upped its commitment to gaming during today's Geeked Week stream, which revealed several games coming to the platform. Hades is the crown jewel, but several other notable games are coming to the platform soon.
Gaming Every year when the new Call of Duty title drops, the playing field is once again reset as everyone needs to start grinding back up the ranks. Fully embracing the RPG elements, Modern Warfare 3 once again allows you to earn XP as you play match after match to rank up your character, with each rank not only bringing you closer to hitting prestige but also unlocking new options for your chosen operator. Your player rank is unique from your weapon levels and can take a lot longer to grind if you don't know the most efficient methods. If you want to fast-track your career through the ranks, here are the fastest ways to earn XP in Modern Warfare 3.
How to earn XP fast in Modern Warfare 3 There's basically no way you can play Modern Warfare 3 without earning XP, but some modes and methods can earn you double (or more) what you could if you were just playing without a plan.
Play the objective We all love playing team deathmatch or any other mode where all you need to worry about is being the one to shoot first. However, if you want to earn that sweet XP fast, you need to choose one of the objective modes like Domination, Hardpoint, Ground War, or even Kill Confirmed. Not only do you get XP for killing enemies, but the amount you get on top of that for playing the objective can make up the bulk of your XP gain. This is especially true if you're not at the top of your game and end up dying more than you kill since you have another method to contribute. Also, objective modes grant you an XP bonus just for finishing the match.
Always work towards daily and weapon challenges Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
