Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Upcoming PS5 Games PlayStation Plus Best PS5 Games Connect PS5 Controller to PC Best PS5 Headsets How to Turn Off PS5 Free PS5 Games Xbox Series X vs PS5 PS5 Voice Commands Home Gaming Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best PS5 exclusives By Jesse Lennox Close The PlayStation 5 has finally established a respectable list of console-exclusive titles between first- and third-party developers. These games are able to take full advantage of the PS5 hardware thanks to not needing to worry about developing for other platforms. If you want to play some of the most impressive games you can on your system, no matter what genre you like most, these exclusives are the ones to check out.
In this guide, we’ll round up the very best exclusive games the system has to offer. The PS5 ’s exclusive library will undoubtedly grow throughout its life cycle, and we will update this article accordingly as more games come out.
The Last of Us Part I PC (Microsoft Windows), PlayStation 5 Shooter, Adventure Naughty Dog Sony Interactive Entertainment September 02, 2022 Read less Where to find planes in Fortnite OG The best PS5 controllers for 2023 The new 1TB PS5 has more usable storage space than the Xbox Series X Horizon Forbidden West PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5 Role-playing (RPG), Adventure Guerrilla Games Sony Interactive Entertainment February 18, 2022 Serving as the followup to the hit 2017 open-world game, Horizon Forbidden West doubles down on many mechanics while introducing new ones. For the most part, most of the changes are for the better, such as the inclusion of new tools and improved combat. Most notably, traversal underwent changes, allowing players to get around the map much easier thanks to the use of a new paraglider. And of course, the combat is gripping and satisfying, as is the design of the giant mechanical dinosaurs that roam the world. While this game won’t break new ground, mostly all of its features are well-executed, making it a must-buy.
Read less Final Fantasy VII Remake Intergrade PC (Microsoft Windows), PlayStation 5 Role-playing (RPG) Square Enix Square Enix June 10, 2021 The 2020 version of Final Fantasy VII Remake was already a stellar experience, and the PS5 exclusive Intergrade edition makes it even better. What’s great about this version is that it includes a photo mode, new difficulty settings, visual and performance enhancements, and quality of life improvements over the 2020 game. The base experience is incredible, especially if you enjoyed Final Fantasy VII from 1997. The remake looks, plays, and feels like a modern action title, but still pulls from some of the mechanics in the original while telling mostly the same story. There are some key narrative differences that might surprise you, though we won’t spoil them here.
Read less Sackboy: A Big Adventure PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5 Platform, Adventure Sumo Digital Sony Interactive Entertainment November 12, 2020 Many games on this list are for mature audiences, but Sackboy: A Big Adventure is an exception. This is a 3D platformer made for all sorts of players, featuring the LittleBigPlanet star Sackboy. While you aren’t able to create your own levels in this game, it’s focused on platforming, with stages designed by Sumo Digital. Many of the levels are expansive, with plenty to do and collect, both solo and with a friend. That’s one of the selling points of Sackboy: A Big Adventure.
 It’s a fantastic, approachable experience that can be played with friends and family, but don’t let its cute visuals stop you — it’s superbly designed and is a blast to play.
Read less Marvel's Spider-Man 2 PlayStation 5 Hack and slash/Beat 'em up, Adventure Insomniac Games Sony Interactive Entertainment October 20, 2023 Read less Returnal PlayStation 5 Shooter Housemarque Sony Interactive Entertainment April 30, 2021 Read less Ratchet & Clank: Rift Apart PlayStation 5 Shooter, Platform, Adventure Insomniac Games Sony Interactive Entertainment June 11, 2021 It’s hard to find a game that looks as good as Ratchet & Clank: Rift Apart.
 In many ways, it’s a showcase for what the PS5 can do, featuring tons of explosions and particles across various encounters in the game. One of its highlights is the ability to travel to other dimensions on the fly, which would have been difficult to pull off on PS4. The characters are witty, the writing is clever, and the presentation looks expensive. This is yet another example of an approachable yet fun experience that is meant for a wide audience, even for players who aren’t as skilled.
Read less Astro's Playroom PlayStation 5 Platform SIE Japan Studio Sony Interactive Entertainment November 12, 2020 Read less Demon's Souls PlayStation 5 Role-playing (RPG), Hack and slash/Beat 'em up Bluepoint Games Sony Interactive Entertainment November 12, 2020 Read less Gran Turismo 7 PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5 Racing, Simulator, Sport Polyphony Digital Sony Interactive Entertainment March 04, 2022 Read less God of War Ragnarök PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5 Hack and slash/Beat 'em up, Adventure SIE Santa Monica Studio Sony Interactive Entertainment November 09, 2022 Read less Uncharted: Legacy of Thieves Collection PC (Microsoft Windows), PlayStation 5 Shooter, Adventure Naughty Dog Naughty Dog, Sony Interactive Entertainment January 28, 2022 Read less Editors' Recommendations Got a PS5? Here’s how to get 6 free months of Apple Music PS Plus is getting an underrated RPG cult classic this month The PS5 games with the best graphics The best PS5 games for 2023 The best games on PlayStation Plus, Extra, and Premium Sony Sony PlayStation Sony PlayStation 5 Gaming The PlayStation 5 has been out for some time now, and its reception has been mostly positive. It includes lots of quality-of-life improvements over its predecessor, the PlayStation 4, such as faster load times, a solid-state drive (SSD) instead of a regular hard disk drive (HDD), and an improved controller in the form of the new DualSense. However, a console is only as good as the games available on it, and thankfully, the PS5 has you covered on that front as well.
While the machine already has a worthy library of great PS5 games, there are even more to look forward to, with some releasing as soon as this month, while others are still years away. In the video game world, it's not uncommon to be aware of games that are still several years out from release. It's also normal for a new game to be revealed and launched within just a couple of months. In this comprehensive list, we'll go through the major PS5 releases scheduled for 2023 and speculate on future games.
Gaming The new, slimmer PS5 and PS5 Digital Edition models are starting to ship out ahead of their intended release in November, and the fine print on the back of the box revealed something important but previously unknown about the Ultra HD Blu-ray Disc Drive that players can attach to the console: it requires an internet connection.
Sony revealed these new versions of the PS5 earlier this month, and one of the biggest visual changes is that instead of having a single console cover on each side, the console now has four separate cover panels. The new PS5 Digital Edition obviously can't play physical media by default, but Sony will allow people to remove one of the cover panels and replace it with an Ultra HD Blu-ray Disc Drive like they would when swapping parts on gaming PCs. This back-of-the-box fine print revealed that this swapping process will require an internet connection actually work, though.
Gaming Peter Parker has had a hard life. He was orphaned by his parents as a child and raised by his caring Aunt May and Uncle Ben, only for Ben to be killed in an act that would shape Spider-Man's entire philosophy as a hero. Things only get worse during the events of the first act of Insomniac's Spider-Man 2 as Aunt May is tragically killed as well, leaving Peter with no more true parental figures. Peter hasn't forgotten all his caring aunt and uncle have done for him, and if you can find their gravesite, he will pay them respect, as well as earn you a Trophy. It's a big graveyard, though, and their site isn't marked on the map. Here's where Uncle Ben and Aunt May's graves are located in Spider-Man 2.
How to find Aunt May and Uncle Ben's graves The graveyard is located at the most-northeastern point on the New York map in Harlem. If you have unlocked fast travel in this district, you can warp almost directly to the spot. Once in the graveyard, go forward down the middle into the open field. You might spot Mile's father's grave first. May and Ben's graves are directly to the right of that.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
