Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: How to Win Fortnite Best Places to Land in Fortnite Fortnite Split-Screen Best Fortnite Skins Fortnite Augments Fortnite Guardian Shield How to Claim Fortnite Capture Points Fortnite Nitro Drifter Home Gaming Guides Where to find planes in Fortnite OG By Billy Givens Close Fortnite has been raining nostalgia down on its millions of fans with Season OG, revisiting various points in the game’s history and giving everyone a chance to see how far the game has come. In doing so, many areas, weapons, utility items, and vehicles from years past have made a return for a limited time, including the fan-favorite X-4 Stormwing plane. There are plenty of these vehicles scattered around the map for you to find, so we’ll list out each spot for you so that you can land near one anytime you’d like.
All plane spawn locations in Fortnite OG Plane spawn locations via fortnite.gg.
Plane spawn locations via fortnite.gg / fortnite.gg There are 16 spawn locations for planes on the current OG map, with a total of 21 planes available to pilot. Here is a list of all of them.
Five planes can be found within Frosty Flights.
Two planes can be found southeast of Frosty Flights.
One plane is on an island on the far southwestern section of the snowy part of the map far below Frosty Flights.
One plane is northeast of Junk Junction near the edge of the map.
One plane is just slightly west of Haunted Hills , which is also northwest of Pleasant Park.
One plane is almost directly in the center of the path between Haunted Hills and Lazy Links , which is also northeast of Pleasant Park.
One plane is a little northeast of Risky Reels.
One plane is in the northeast section of Tomato Temple.
One plane is in the southeast part of Dusty Divot.
One plane is east of Paradise Palms right before reaching the grass.
One plane is southwest of Paradise Palms near the edge of the map.
One plane is west of Lucky Landing relatively close to the edge of the map.
One plane is northwest of Fatal Fields , which would also be southwest of Salty Springs.
One plane is directly north of Tilted Towers.
One plane is in the northeast section of Shifty Shafts.
One plane is northeast of Snobby Shores , which is also southeast of Pleasant Park.
Once you’ve found an X-4 Stormwing plane, you’ll want to keep a few things in mind. For starters, it can carry your full squad anywhere on the map, so long as you have the fuel to get there. Additionally, the planes can be shot down by opponents on the ground, so be mindful of gunfire coming from below you, as you can be gunned through more quickly than you’d think with multiple people firing at you. In other words, fly safe! Editors' Recommendations Is Lords of the Fallen cross-platform? Best gaming console deals: cheapest prices on PS5, Xbox S and X and Switch The best traits to level first in Remnant 2 This trick guarantees you’ll get bots only in every Fortnite match Final Fantasy XIV jobs guide: which job is right for you? Android Apple Fortnite Google Microsoft Nintendo Nintendo Switch Sony Sony PlayStation Sony PlayStation 5 Xbox Xbox One Gaming Superhero strategy game Marvel's Midnight Suns is getting its long-delayed Xbox One and PS4 port on May 11, but there's some bad news for Nintendo Switch owners: The Switch version of the game has been canceled.
2K Games and Firaxis released Marvel's Midnight Suns, a card-based strategy game focusing on the supernatural side of the Marvel comic book universe, for PC, PS5, and Xbox Series X/S last December. While Digital Trends enjoyed the game, it underperformed financially and the game's director left Firaxis altogether following its release. Originally slated to launch alongside the current-gen versions of Midnight Suns in October 2022, the PS4, Xbox One, and Nintendo Switch versions of the game were indefinitely delayed when the game was pushed to December.
Now, the PS4 and Xbox One ports will finally come out digitally alongside the Blood Storm expansion on May 11, but 2K confirmed in the press release announcing the date that "the Nintendo Switch version of Marvel's Midnight Suns will no longer be offered as part of updated plans." Additionally, the release calls Blood Storm the "final" DLC for Midnight Suns, so it seems unlikely that the game will continue to receive lots of post-launch support, unlike other Firaxis titles such as Sid Meier's Civilization VI and XCOM 2. That's certainly a more muted ending than one would expect from a Marvel game from the industry's premier strategy developers.
Marvel's Midnight Suns will finally launch for PS4 and Xbox One on May 11. It's currently available for PC, PS5, and Xbox Series X/S.
Gaming Star Wars is once again taking over Fortnite with the brand-new Find the Force event, which brings a ton of new quests, items, and cosmetics to the popular battle royale. If you want to complete the full event reward track and earn all of the skins, one of the quests you'll need to knock out is opening a Republic Chest. Of course, you may want to seek these out each game anyways, as opening them will reward you with a new DC-15 Blaster, which is an immensely strong firearm that has infinite ammo and excellent range. Here's where to find Republic Chests.
Where to find Republic Chests and what's in them Republic Chests can be found at three locations on the Chapter 4 Season 2 map. You'll find some located about halfway between The Citadel and Shattered Slabs, some to the west of Slappy Shores, and some by the road southwest of Frenzy Fields. Land at one of these spots and search the white tent-like buildings there for the chests.
Each Republic Chest contains one of the new DC-15 Blaster firearms alongside a selection of random support or healing items. You'll commonly see Medkits, Small Shield Potions, and Chug Splashes pop out, so you shouldn't have much trouble getting prepared for battle from the items you get from the Republic Chests.
Gaming Star Wars Jedi: Survivor has a wide variety of skills to learn alongside its five unique lightsaber stances, ensuring you have no shortage of ways to customize your playstyle. The addition of perks bumps up those options even further, granting you the ability to equip badges that improve certain aspects of protagonist Cal Kestis' kit, such as increasing XP earned or improving his ability to break the guard of his foes. Some are found by exploring, while others are purchased from a particular vendor and unlocked fairly early in the game. A handful of perks are unlocked only after beating the game and starting New Game Plus.
Each of these perks uses a certain number of perk slots when equipped, so you'll have to make some tough decisions about which ones you want to have active at any one time. Luckily, exploring the galaxy will net you some additional perk slots, so you'll be able to equip more as you get further in your adventure. Even with all of the perk slots unlocked, however, you'll still want to strongly consider which perks will benefit you best. We'll make that a bit easier on you by listing all of the perks you can find in Star Wars Jedi: Survivor, what boons they offer, and how many perk slots they'll take up.
Perks discovered by exploring These perks are found by thoroughly exploring the world and completing objectives. You may have to overcome some pretty tough challenges to find them all.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
