Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Resident Evil 4 Remake Review Is Resident Evil 4 Co-Op? Resident Evil 4 Remake PC Requirements Chapters in Resident Evil 4 Remake Best Resident Evil Games Home Gaming Features Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Resident Evil 4, Death Stranding barely miss a step on iPhone and iPad By Giovanni Colantonio Close Just two months ago, I had my mind blown when I saw Resident Evil Village running on an iPad.
 While I expected a very compromised experience, I was shocked when I saw how the horror game barely lost a step on the device. I pushed its settings to their limits and still came out with a fairly smooth experience capable of hitting high frame rates. Suddenly, the idea of playing a console quality game entirely on a mobile device didn’t seem like a far-fetched idea.
That was an impressive feat, but Resident Evil Village was built for the PS4 generation. The bigger test would come from more technically ambitious games that are either exclusive to new consoles or rebuilt with them in mind. I wouldn’t have to wait long to see that in action. At a recent Apple gaming showcase, I went hands-on with both Death Stranding: Director’s Cut and Resident Evil 4 running on a bevy of Apple devices, from the iPhone 15 Pro to a Mac Mini.
Sure enough, I still walked away as impressed as I did with Resident Evil Village.
 Both games run smoother than expected across devices without making too many sacrifices. What’s really starting to come into focus, though, is the potential benefit of gaming on a Mac ecosystem. Success just relies on Apple’s ability to snag games much more quickly rather than playing catch-up with old releases.
Gaming in the Apple ecosystem I’d start my demo by firing up the first chapter of Resident Evil 4 on an iPad.
 That would be a make-or-break moment, as Apple faced the difficult task of proving that a game built for PS5 and Xbox Series X can run on a mobile device. Just as was the case when I demoed Village , Resident Evil 4 cleared that hurdle with ease. My session was remarkably smooth, as I was able to fire off quick headshots and parries just as efficiently as I had on PS5.
 While I didn’t have the option to tweak settings too much, I was able to max the frame rate up to 120 frames per second (fps) and get some strong performance from a small screen.
Giovanni Colantonio / Digital Trends The iPad’s display does the horror game justice, too. It’s capable of producing some deep blacks that are crucial in Resident Evil 4 ’s moody opening segment, as Leon cuts through a dark house with his flashlight. I remain impressed by the level of detail these mobile Resident Evil ports are able to maintain. Even if they’re not technically as impressive as playing on a console, the smaller screen size of a device like the iPad means that any reduction in textures aren’t as noticeable as you’d expect when seeing screenshots out of context.
With that test successful, I’d move on to Death Stranding: Director’s Cut.
 While the original release was built for PS4, the Director’s Cut was specifically reworked for PS5.
 Considering its an enormous open-world game filled with detailed landscapes, it would be just as impressive a feat if Apple could get that game running on its devices. I’d first play the game on a Mac Mini M2 , which had some mixed results. While the image quality was there, performance seemed a little choppy as it ran at a lower frame rate (though that issue was more pronounced due to the gigantic display I demoed it on).
I’d be significantly more impressed when playing a slice of it on an iPhone 15 Pro attached to a Backbone controller.
 Though I’d only play its first few minutes and watch an early cutscene, I’d see some incredible detail retained on the device. Terrain was as rich and earthy as ever and rain droplets especially looked remarkable. I could see the reduced frame rate in cutscenes, but that didn’t feel like that big of a loss on a phone screen.
Giovanni Colantonio / Digital Trends As well as it ran, there’s a fair question one might ask: Why would you want to play a game like that on an iPhone? I’ve struggled to find that answer myself amid Apple’s recent gaming push, but a reasonable response finally came into focus during my demo. The real appeal here is cross-progression, as buying a game like Resident Evil 4 on one Apple device means you’d have access to it on all of them.
Death Stranding is the perfect game to sell that aspirational vision, as it’s the kind of thing you can either sit down with for long sessions on a laptop or casually pick away at in a quick iPhone session. It’s a potentially powerful leveraging of Apple’s ecosystem that gives the company one leg up on gaming giants like PlayStation.
Of course, there’s still one big caveat that Apple needs to solve. It’s great that I can play Death Stranding on an iPhone, but am I really going to play it for the third time since its release four years ago? Apple is still playing catch-up with its games rather than landing new releases simultaneously as they launch on other platforms. That’s going to remain a sticking point until Apple can build stronger relationships with its partners.
A sea change may be coming, though. The Apple event I attended featured multiple recent releases running on MacBooks, including 2023 hits like Baldur’s Gate 3 and Lies of P.
 Even Resident Evil 4 will launch in the same year as its PC and console counterparts, dropping on December 20. The gap is closing with each wave of gaming releases, shrinking from a few years to a few months. The closer we get to “day one” releases, the better chance Apple has at selling the power of its ecosystem to skeptical gamers. It’s an uphill battle, but Apple at least seems serious about the climb.
Editors' Recommendations iPhone 15 Pro can natively run the latest Resident Evil and Assassin’s Creed games Apple Apple iPad Apple iPhone Features Resident Evil Gaming Microsoft's latest console, the Xbox Series X, is a powerhouse, oftentimes matching or outperforming the PlayStation 5 in multiplatform releases. But how are the exclusives? The Xbox Series X had a thin lineup at launch, but over the years has amassed a more than impressive catalogue of titles.
We will only include Xbox One games if they've been optimized for Series X and S (like Gears 5). Also, we're ignoring PCs entirely. If you factor in PC releases, Microsoft hasn't had a console-exclusive game in years. While many exciting games are still to come, such as Fable and Hellblade 2, there are more than enough to keep you satisfied until then.
Gaming Lego sets bring joy to our and our kids' eyes. They can help build real problem solving skills by following instructions, encourage creativity by dismissing the instructions and making fun modifications, or be the tools to create something entirely on our own from the ground up. There are tons of Black Friday Lego deals, as you might've guessed, but few places due it as well as Walmart does. Between official Black Friday deals and associated clearance items, the retail giant now has over 80 sets on sale as part of its Walmart Black Friday deals. Go shop the sale now via the button below or read on to see our favorite picks.
Our favorite Walmart Black Friday Lego deal Web With so many Black Friday deals already under way, it can be tough to keep on top of everything. Walmart has dozens of different awesome deals so we've narrowed things down to the best Walmart Black Friday deals currently available. There's a little bit of everything here with discounts on TVs, headphones, laptops, coffee makers, and much more. The retailer is also having a massive Black Friday Lego sale. Whatever you're considering buying, keep reading while we take you through some great options.
Other retailers have started early too, so check out Amazon Black Friday deals and Best Buy Black Friday deals.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
