Close Search Skip to main content Site Navigation Research Overview Index GPT-4 DALL·E 3 API Overview Data privacy Pricing Docs ChatGPT Overview Enterprise Try ChatGPT Safety Company About Blog Careers Residency Charter Security Customer stories Search Navigation quick links Log in Try ChatGPT Menu Mobile Navigation Close Site Navigation Research Overview Index GPT-4 DALL·E 3 API Overview Data privacy Pricing Docs ChatGPT Overview Enterprise Try ChatGPT Safety Company About Blog Careers Residency Charter Security Customer stories Quick Links Log in Try ChatGPT Search OpenAI Residency Our 6-month program is a bridge for brilliant technical researchers from diverse fields to transition into AI.
Quick links Read our FAQ About the program OpenAI Residency is designed to help bridge the knowledge gap for exceptional researchers and engineers in other fields to gain the critical skills and knowledge to transition their careers into the AI & ML space.
This program is an excellent way for people who are curious, passionate, and skilled to sharpen their focus on AI and machine learning—and to help us invent the future.
Sam Altman CEO of OpenAI Who we’re looking for The program is ideal for researchers specializing in fields outside of deep learning like mathematics, physics, or neuroscience. The program can also work well for exceptionally talented software engineers who seek to transition into full-time Research based positions in the field of AI.
Residents leverage their existing experience to work on real AI problems with our Research teams, receiving a full salary during the program. We value excellence from various educational backgrounds, including self-taught individuals, and encourage diverse applicants to reflect the human experience in our work.
Read interview guide OpenAI Residency was more than a program—it was a crucible of growth, blending academic rigor with nurturing mentorship, and teaching me to be bold yet methodical.
Tyna Eloundou Former OpenAI Resident Apply to be a Resident We have now closed the application process for the remainder of 2023. We are currently in the process of reviewing the numerous applications received.
For those who have already applied, our team will be contacting selected candidates in the coming weeks. We appreciate your patience during this process.
If you missed this year's application window, don't worry. We encourage you to stay tuned for updates regarding future opportunities. Please keep an eye on our website and follow us on social media for upcoming announcements and application openings.
FAQ Can I pursue the Residency while enrolled in school or higher education studies? No. Residents are full-time employees and therefore cannot be actively enrolled in any school programs while employed at OpenAI.
If a student is interested in pursuing the Residency they can either elect to: Leave their educational program.
Wait to apply until closer to the end of their studies (~3 months out is a good timeline).
How long is the Residency program? 6 months.
When does the Residency program start? Start dates are flexible and occur on a rolling basis throughout the year.
What location is the Residency program based in? This program is based in our San Francisco, California HQ. We offer a flexible work environment, encouraging Residents to come into the office at least 3 days a week. We will also provide relocation assistance as needed.
Does OpenAI sponsor visas or US work authorization? Yes. OpenAI will provide immigration and sponsorship support based on an individual’s unique circumstances.
What is the salary of a Resident? The salary for this role is $210,000 annually. Total compensation also includes benefits.
Is the Residency an internship? No. The Residency is not an internship. Residents are paid a competitive salary (including benefits) for the entirety of their 6-month Residency.
What does the interview process look like? Please review our Interview Guide.
What does the application process look like? Our application process is adaptive to our business needs, so we open Residency spots and hire on a rolling basis. For updates on application openings, check our careers site and follow our social media accounts.
A leap from biology to AI? OpenAI Residency said ‘yes,’ turning doubts into the most fundamental, impactful, and fun research I’ve ever done.
Dan Mossing Former OpenAI Resident Resident research Improving mathematical reasoning with process supervision May 31, 2023 May 31, 2023 Language models can explain neurons in language models May 9, 2023 May 9, 2023 A research agenda for assessing the economic impacts of code generation models Mar 3, 2022 March 3, 2022 Solving math word problems Oct 29, 2021 October 29, 2021 Research Overview Index GPT-4 DALL·E 3 API Overview Data privacy Pricing Docs ChatGPT Overview Enterprise Try ChatGPT Company About Blog Careers Charter Security Customer stories Safety OpenAI © 2015 – 2023 Terms & policies Privacy policy Brand guidelines Social Twitter YouTube GitHub SoundCloud LinkedIn Back to top
