Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Resident Evil 4 Remake Review Is Resident Evil 4 Co-Op? Resident Evil 4 Remake PC Requirements Chapters in Resident Evil 4 Remake Best Resident Evil Games Home Gaming Features Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Why do we love horror games? Psychologists explain our morbid curiosity By DeAngelo Epps Close True horror is something no human wants to experience. Few would actively want to throw themselves in a powerless position against some life-threatening situation or fearsome creature. Isn’t it much easier to watch these things through the TV screen with scary movies or auditory creepypastas ? It’s through that outside curiosity that humanity has created so many ways to witness nightmares without having to really put ourselves through actual hell. And one of those ways is through video games , one of the most interactive and immersive ways to take terror trips in a much safer way.
Recreational fear The horror sweet spot But as an active hound for frights, I’ve always wondered, “Why?” Why do we enjoy taking steps out of our comfort zones into these demented realities? I love haunted houses even though I’m terrified of the giant out-of-this-world animatronics. Similarly, I love horror games even though I hate the unease of being powerless while being stalked by monstrous assailants. So what is it about our brains that makes us want to go beyond simply observing horror through film and instead become active participants through gaming? The answer lies in our psychology.
Recreational fear There are several studies on the science of fear that suggest the sensation gives humans somewhat of a “natural high.” Our adrenaline rises, endorphins and dopamine are released, and we get hyped due to these short bursts of fright. That’s why games like Silent Hill have so much anticipation built into them. Much like waiting for Mr. X to appear and give it to us in Resident Evil 2 , we have a build and then release of all these chemicals, and that gives us this huge payoff and rush that keeps us moving deeper into the shadows. Experiences such as that, going into haunted houses, or even riding rollercoasters are categorized as recreational fear, and that’s what horror author and psychologist Mathias Clasen is an expert on.
Capcom “I think it’s in our nature to find pleasure in what we’ve come to call recreational fear activities, that is, those kinds of activities that pleasantly scare us,” Clasen tells Digital Trends. “Horror is just a particularly intense kind of recreational fear. We evolved to find pleasure in playing with fear because we learn important things about ourselves and the world that way — what the dangers of the world are, how we respond to fear ourselves, and how we can cope with negative emotions such as fear and anxiety.” That’s why horror has evolved into such a powerful genre throughout every medium and takes so many forms: It has always been a glimpse into the inner human psyche. It gives us a visual way to experience and confront our fears, insecurities, and sins. You can find that on display in horror classics like Silent Hill 2 , a game that has protagonist James Sunderland dealing with the existential horror that he may be the worst monster of all.
You aren’t in real danger when you’re playing a horror game, and you know it.
Since their inception, horror games have thrown us into these emotional situations that we’ve never wanted to experience in the real world — on top of showcasing some grotesque creatures. The 1988 classic Splatterhouse is about killing monster after monster , but its most harrowing moment comes when the protagonist’s lover becomes another fiend to be destroyed. It plays at our emotions and shatters them, making it all more personal. A game doesn’t need to be a gory horror experience to pull that sensation off. Even a game like the peppy Earthbound translates the fears of childhood and growing up into a charming RPG. These games throw us into conflicts that we’d never put ourselves in willingly, allowing us to look inside ourselves and learn something new or cope with past trauma.
The horror sweet spot For some, even that digital experience can be too real. Is there such a thing as too much immersion when dealing with such strong emotions? That’s where gaming’s latest technical evolution comes into play: VR horror games.
 The technology is still young, so it’s no surprise that VR horror titles haven’t drawn as much attention as franchises like Dead Space or Resident Evil yet. It may not just be about low headset adoption rates, though. Clasen posits that most players don’t want to get that close to their fears.
“You aren’t in real danger when you’re playing a horror game, and you know it,” Clasen says. “The moment you forget that — the moment you become so immersed that you forget it’s just a game — it stops being fun. It’s no longer playful, no longer recreational fear but real fear, and that’s not pleasant at all. I think that’s why VR horror games are a niche market. It’s simply too real for most people.” That’s where psychologist Coltan Scrivner’s “horror sweet spot” comes into play. To him, the best experiences take careful planning to make sure there’s not too much or too little fear. Too much, and the terror eventually transcends recreational fear. Too little and it ends up being too boring. That’s why the best entries in the Resident Evil series are so masterful; the fear is always there, but it isn’t too strong. The third-person perspective makes them a little less personal than first-person games, yet you still feel a bit powerless along the way — at least during your first playthrough before you know where all the monsters are hiding.
Naughty Dog, PlayStation, Sony In speaking with Scrivner and Clasen, it became clear why the zombie subgenre of horror is so popular in particular. As seen in The Last of Us , Telltale’s Walking Dead series, and even Resident Evil , the human element brings an endless wealth of emotional possibilities. All the while, zombies are constantly looming, which activates some primal senses as we stand on guard waiting for an attack. That creates an almost ultimate recreational fear experience.
“Zombies activate many aspects of our morbid curiosity,” Scrivner says. “Their rotting flesh taps into our curiosity about bodily injuries. Their predatory nature taps into our curiosity about violence and predators. And their nature — not quite dead and not quite alive — taps into our curiosity about the paranormal. So zombie horror usually has something for everyone.” Zombies may be popular for a reason, but it doesn’t matter what subgenre you’re morbidly drawn to. All horror games pull on different strings in our brains. While so many gaming experiences attract players with positive feelings and rewards, horror stands as a fascinating outlier. We want to be scared. We want to be powerless. And through those seemingly negative experiences, we find something within ourselves that reminds us why we love the genre all over again every single time.
Editors' Recommendations You can kill your 2023 backlog and prepare for Halloween with these 7 creepy games Konami’s big Silent Hill plans show how video game franchises are changing Resident Evil Village DLC, Exoprimal, and more headline Capcom Showcase 9 terrifying horror games you can play on Xbox Game Pass this Halloween Konami is listening to feedback on a new Silent Hill, could be making two games Action Games Features Resident Evil Gaming Resident Evil 3 | Announcement Trailer | PS4 Capcom had a bit of a surprise in store for Resident Evil fans during Sony's PlayStation State of Play presentation on December 10. Though we were almost certain Resident Evil 3 was on the way, it was confirmed as part of a clever fake-out from the company, and it is arriving sooner than we anticipated.
Gaming Lego sets bring joy to our and our kids' eyes. They can help build real problem solving skills by following instructions, encourage creativity by dismissing the instructions and making fun modifications, or be the tools to create something entirely on our own from the ground up. There are tons of Black Friday Lego deals, as you might've guessed, but few places due it as well as Walmart does. Between official Black Friday deals and associated clearance items, the retail giant now has over 80 sets on sale as part of its Walmart Black Friday deals. Go shop the sale now via the button below or read on to see our favorite picks.
Our favorite Walmart Black Friday Lego deal Web With so many Black Friday deals already under way, it can be tough to keep on top of everything. Walmart has dozens of different awesome deals so we've narrowed things down to the best Walmart Black Friday deals currently available. There's a little bit of everything here with discounts on TVs, headphones, laptops, coffee makers, and much more. The retailer is also having a massive Black Friday Lego sale. Whatever you're considering buying, keep reading while we take you through some great options.
Other retailers have started early too, so check out Amazon Black Friday deals and Best Buy Black Friday deals.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
