Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides 7 video game movie and TV adaptations we can’t wait to watch By Blair Marnell Close For decades, video game adaptations have been ridiculed for failing to live up to the games that inspired them, or by the way they flopped at the box office. That changed in a big way this year, including the recent premiere of Five Nights At Freddy’s , which defied expectations and had a huge opening weekend despite being available on Peacock on the same day.
BioShock Metal Gear Solid Alan Wake God of War Ghost of Tsushima Dragon’s Lair The Legend of Zelda Many of the best video games were already been optioned as films and TV shows prior to 2023. But if there was ever a time to capitalize on the trend, it’s now. The Hollywood strikes are over, and video games are an IP mine that the studios haven’t fully exploited yet. And for our money, these are the seven video game adaptations that we can’t wait to see.
BioShock Bethesda / 2K Games Hollywood has been trying to figure out how to adapt BioShock almost since its release in 2007 with little to show for it. Director Gore Verbinski was attached to the project for several years, but he clashed with Universal when the studio wanted him to tone down the R-rating and scale back his planned $200 million adaptation to around $80 million. Verbinski ultimately left the project, and it floundered in development hell.
More recently, The Hunger Games ‘ Francis Lawrence signed on to direct a BioShock feature for Netflix with Blue Eye Samurai co-creator Michael Green writing the script. It’s unclear what Lawrence and Green plan to do with the film, but there’s ample material to draw from. The first two games take place in the underwater city known as Rapture, which is overrun by genetically enhanced (and insane) humans.
The third game, BioShock Infinite , has more compelling characters including Booker DeWitt and Elizabeth, as well as a whole new city to explore called Columbia, which is suspended in the sky. Either setting has the making of a great movie, if it’s done with respect to the source material.
Metal Gear Solid Konami Since 1998, Hideo Kojima’s Metal Gear Solid and its sequels have been praised for their cinematic visuals and engrossing stories. It’s like an action movie come to life. The problem with bringing that story to Hollywood as a movie is that the game can play out in perhaps five to 10 hours depending on the skill level of the player and the length of the game. But theatrical movies tend to only have two hours to work with, and it will be a real challenge to boil down this game’s story to that short runtime.
Sony is currently developing Metal Gear Solid as a starring vehicle for Oscar Isaac, with Jordan Vogt-Roberts set to direct. But there hasn’t been any update of substance about this project since 2020. In other words, don’t hold your breath for it.
Alan Wake Remedy Entertainment Alan Wake has a premise that’s just irresistible. In the game, Alan is a best-selling horror novelist who is desperately trying to find his missing wife while his latest book comes to life around him. Essentially, Alan is becoming the lead character of his own horror story, and it may not end well for him.
The games are already set up like episodes of a TV show, so it’s unsurprising that Alan Wake has been optioned for television. AMC has the rights to adapt the games, and that cable network already got a lot of mileage out of The Walking Dead.
 Alan Wake doesn’t need multiple spinoffs, it just needs one great show.
God of War Sony The God of War games are being adapted as a TV series by Amazon Prime Video. So it will likely go into production. However, the early reports indicate that Prime Video plans to sidestep the most compelling aspects of Kratos’ backstory. The first God of War game chronicled Kratos’ quest to defeat Ares to avenge himself for the death of his family.
God of War II and God of War III revealed that Kratos was Zeus’ son, and his ultimate destiny was to kill the Greek pantheon after Zeus betrayed him.
That’s the TV series that we should be getting. Instead, Sony and Prime Video are taking their cues from the 2018 God of War game , which featured an older Kratos as the surviving parent of his son, Atreus, in the realm of the Norse gods. It’s a great story in its own right, but telling only half of Kratos’ history is doing a disservice to God of War.
Ghost of Tsushima Sony Sony has given PlayStation gamers a lot of unforgettable solo-player titles, including Ghost of Tsushima.
 In this game, players assume control of a samurai warrior named Jin Sakai in 1274 during the first Mongol invasion of Japan. As the last living member of his clan, Jin has to find a way to retake Tsushima Island from its conquerors.
John Wick director Chad Stahelski has signed on to helm Ghost of Tsushima for Sony Pictures, so there’s a good chance that this movie will eventually happen.
Dragon’s Lair Digital Leisure Dragon’s Lair was one of the most innovative arcade games of 1983 because it put players in control of the fate of an animated heroic knight, Dirk the Daring, during his quest to rescue Princess Daphne from an evil dragon. These days, we would call that an interactive movie. The game was also morbidly hilarious as Dirk would suffer some very gruesome deaths if players made one wrong move.
Former Disney animator Don Bluth was the leading creator of Dragon’s Lair , and he has been attempting to interest studios in a full-length animated feature for years. Netflix also has the rights to create a live-action adaptation of Dragon’s Lair , with Ryan Reynolds attached to play Dirk. Given Reynolds’ involvement, that will probably come to pass.
The Legend of Zelda Nintendo Thanks to the success of The Super Mario Bros. Movie , Nintendo is ready to tackle an even more ambitious adaptation. Earlier this month, Sony and Nintendo announced that a Legend of Zelda live-action film is in development, with Kingdom of the Planet of the Apes director Wes Ball helming the movie.
The Zelda games are one of Nintendo’s biggest franchises, and it’s also one of the most beloved series of roleplaying games going back to 1986. The chronology of the games is convoluted, but if the movie can capture the essence of Link, Zelda, and the incredible world of Hyrule, it could have Mario-like box office. But only if the movie is anywhere near as good as the games are.
Apple Nintendo Entertainment November has been a great month for movies at Netflix, with the premiere of David Fincher's The Killer, and recent box office hits like Insidious: The Red Door and Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse. This week, the new additions include The Impossible, a 2012 survival thriller that has already landed on the list of the 10 most popular movies on Netflix. For younger viewers, Minions is also heating up the charts despite the pending departure of the other films in the franchise at the end of the month.
There's only one holiday weekend left in November, so what's the best way to stay on top of everything new on Netflix? Why, we are, of course. Our list of the best movies on Netflix right now is updated every Friday, even on holiday weekends, so you can easily find something for every movie lover in your life.
Entertainment Summer is long over, and the fall season is in full swing. It's now late 2023, and just about everyone is subscribed to Netflix and Hulu. But would you be surprised if I told you one of the most underrated streaming services around is Tubi? The upstart streamer has tons of new and old TV shows from every decade and every genre imaginable. Want to watch the buzziest series that aired on Max? Tubi has it. Are you feeling nostalgic about that old movie or cartoon you used to watch as a kid in the '80s or '90s? Chances are, Tubi has it.
Tubi has so much content that it can be hard to choose which shows and films are worth your time. Digital Trends is here to help you sort out which ones are worth watching. Even though the streaming service is free, time is valuable, and no one wants to waste it watching subpar content.
Entertainment Rather than waiting for the Thanksgiving holiday weekend, Apple TV+ and Netflix dropped two of their biggest shows of the fall this week. Netflix's The Crown kicked off its sixth and final season with four new episodes, while the Apple TV+ Godzilla-adjacent series Monarch: Legacy of Monster, dropped its first two episodes this week, with new episodes arriving weekly thereafter. Also this week, Scott Pilgrim Takes Off hits Netflix, while Max gets in on the act this week by premiering the second season of Julia.
Netflix, Amazon Prime Video, Hulu, Max, Apple TV+, Disney+, Paramount+, and Peacock still have new shows coming for the rest of November, including a handful arriving next week. But if you've been thinking about cutting back on your streaming bill, then perhaps you should consider signing up for the ad-supported tiers. In the meantime, keep reading for our weekly roundup of the best new shows to stream.
When you're done here, check out the best new movies to stream this week, as well as the best shows on Netflix, best shows on Hulu, best shows on Amazon Prime Video, and best shows on Disney+.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
