Close Search Skip to main content Site Navigation Research Overview Index GPT-4 DALL·E 3 API Overview Data privacy Pricing Docs ChatGPT Overview Enterprise Try ChatGPT Safety Company About Blog Careers Residency Charter Security Customer stories Search Navigation quick links Log in Try ChatGPT Menu Mobile Navigation Close Site Navigation Research Overview Index GPT-4 DALL·E 3 API Overview Data privacy Pricing Docs ChatGPT Overview Enterprise Try ChatGPT Safety Company About Blog Careers Residency Charter Security Customer stories Quick Links Log in Try ChatGPT Search Security & privacy Quick links Visit our trust portal OpenAI invests in security as we believe it is foundational to our mission. We safeguard computing efforts that advance artificial general intelligence and continuously prepare for emerging security threats.
Compliance & accreditations Visit our trust portal Compliance External auditing The OpenAI API undergoes annual third-party penetration testing, which identifies security weaknesses before they can be exploited by malicious actors.
Customer requirements OpenAI has experience helping our customers meet their regulatory, industry and contractual requirements (e.g., HIPAA).
Contact us to learn more.
Reporting security issues OpenAI invites security researchers, ethical hackers, and technology enthusiasts to report security issues via our Bug Bounty Program. The program offers safe harbor for good faith security testing and cash rewards for vulnerabilities based on their severity and impact.
null links Participate in our Bug Bounty Program Read about the program FAQ Will OpenAI use my content to improve models and services? Data submitted through the OpenAI API is not used to train OpenAI models or improve OpenAI’s service offering. Data submitted through non-API consumer services ChatGPT or DALL·E may be used to improve our models.
Can I opt out of having my data used to improve non-API services? You can request to opt out of having your data used to improve our non-API services by filling out this form with your organization ID and email address associated with the owner of the account.
Can I opt in to sharing my data for API services? Yes. While OpenAI will not use data submitted by customers via our API to train or improve our models, you can explicitly decide to share your data with us for this purpose. You can opt in to share data by filling out this form.
Can I request that my content be deleted? Yes, we will delete your content (such as prompts, generated images, uploads, and API responses) when you submit a data deletion request.
 A data deletion request can take up to 30 days to process once it has been received.
Is my content shared with third parties? We do not share user content with third parties for marketing purposes. You can find a list of subprocessors OpenAI has engaged with to provide processing activities here.
We are committed to protecting people’s privacy.
Our goal is to build helpful AI models We want our AI models to learn about the world—not private individuals. We use training information to help our AI models, like ChatGPT, learn about language and how to understand and respond to it.
We do not actively seek out personal information to train our models, and we do not use public information on the internet to build profiles about people, advertise to or target them, or to sell user data.
Our models generate new words each time they are asked a question. They don’t store information in a database for recalling later or “copy and paste” training information when responding to questions.
We work to: Reduce the amount personal information in our training datasets Train models to reject requests for personal information of private individuals Minimize the possibility that our models might generate responses that include the personal information of private individuals Read more about how our models are developed Ways to manage data One of the most useful features of AI models is that they can improve over time. We continuously improve our models through research breakthroughs and exposure to real-world problems and data.
We understand users may not want their data used to improve our models and provide ways for them to manage their data: In ChatGPT, users can turn off chat history, allowing them to choose which conversations can be used to train our models We do not train on API customer data by default An opt-out form More information For more information on how we use and protect personal information, please read our help article on data usage and Privacy policy.
Featured roles View all careers Software Engineer, Privacy San Francisco, California, United States — Security Apply now Research Engineer, Privacy San Francisco, California, United States — Security Apply now Research Overview Index GPT-4 DALL·E 3 API Overview Data privacy Pricing Docs ChatGPT Overview Enterprise Try ChatGPT Company About Blog Careers Charter Security Customer stories Safety OpenAI © 2015 – 2023 Terms & policies Privacy policy Brand guidelines Social Twitter YouTube GitHub SoundCloud LinkedIn Back to top
