Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Reviews Alan Wake 2 review: Remedy’s endlessly creative sequel embraces its dark side By Giovanni Colantonio Close $60.00 Engrossing horror story Fantastic worldbuilding Endlessly creative Alan chapters Mind-bending puzzles Strong performances Frustrating forest exploration Detective elements disappoint Low end machines may struggle Alan Wake 2 is a tale of two nightmares come to life. One of those is a supernatural affair, as the titular Wake fights to escape from the mysterious Dark Place that he’s been trapped in for 13 years. For Saga Anderson, an FBI detective who finds herself tangled up in that case thanks to a series of related cult murders, the terror hits much closer to home. The deepest fears of an anxious mother threaten to become a lived reality as the distorted memories of Pacific Northwestern townies place her in the center of an unspeakable tragedy. Both characters want to “save the day,” but there’s one problem. This isn’t an action movie; it’s a horror story.
Eternal darkness Genre shake-up A note on tech A great awakening And horror is about victims, not heroes.
At least, that’s the unsettling thought that hangs over Remedy Interactive’s long-awaited sequel like a long shadow. While 2010’s Alan Wake is certainly eerie, its action-adventure setup made it feel more like a campy thriller in which monsters were just problems to be shot away. Remedy flips that script with its full-throated survival horror sequel — and that’s not just a cosmetic change. An oppressive darkness seeps in through every corner of its real and metaphysical worlds, threatening to drown both Alan and Saga. A heroic boss fight won’t save them. The only hope is that they can keep their heads above water until the final page of their story turns.
All Lunchbox locations in Alan Wake 2 All Word of Power locations in Alan Wake 2 All nursery rhyme solutions in Alan Wake 2 Save for a few odd gameplay quirks and frustrating tech issues at launch, Alan Wake 2 is Remedy Interactive’s most confident, fully realized creative vision to date. It fully pays off the long-simmering potential of the studio’s interconnected universe to create a densely detailed, cerebral experience about the nature of horror – both in the nightmares we face in everyday life and the scary stories we create to cope with them.
Eternal darkness The original Alan Wake drew clear inspiration from David Lynch’s Twin Peaks , so it’s only fitting that the sequel pays homage to its third season, The Return , which released in the 13-year gap between games. The parallels are immediately clear. Saga’s investigation into the deer-obsessed Cult of the Tree starts with a bloated corpse, just as The Return ’s own FBI investigation does. Meanwhile, Wake seeks an escape from the Dark Place just like Dale Cooper trapped in the Black Lodge. Evil doppelgangers run amok. Hell, Saga’s chapters are even titled “Return.” Remedy is at the top of its game here when it comes to worldbuilding … It’s perhaps a bit on the nose in its establishing chapters, but that inspiration — along with loving nods to Steven King, True Detective , and more — quickly soaks into Remedy’s own distinct voice. Over the course of nearly 20 hours, the studio weaves together an engrossing series of interconnected mysteries made possible by its ambitious shared game universe. What starts as a standard FBI procedural soon morphs into a reality-bending chronicle that involves the paranormal Federal Bureau of Control, interdimensional talk shows, and a hair metal band whose music might just contain the secrets of the universe.
Remedy is at the top of its game here when it comes to worldbuilding, topping the creative heights it reached with 2019’s Control.
 All of its explorable locations — from the Dark Place’s twisted version of New York City to a coffee-themed amusement park nestled deep in the woods of Watery — are loaded with lively details that are a consistent delight to discover. From hysterical small-town TV ads to a full foreign art film send-up starring Alan Wake 2 Creative Director Sam Lake, each piece works to build a fully realized world running on its own oddball internal logic.
Epic Games What really drives the story, though, is its two protagonists and their intersecting journeys. Though Saga can feel like a dry detective in a cast of memorable local eccentrics at first, her slow descent into a personal hell that’s entirely out of her control makes for a gripping psychological horror tale. That’s only strengthened by Alan’s own story, as the lost author attempts to literally write himself out of a mental prison at the expense of characters like Saga and her hard-nosed detective Alex Casey. Like its predecessor, the sequel doesn’t shy away from portraying Wake as a deeply flawed character. He’s a victim of the Dark Place’s pull, but he doesn’t hesitate to drag everyone down with him.
That’s what’s so effective about Alan Wake 2 as a horror story. In its opening hours, it stops to reflect on the laws of the genre. It posits that there are only victims and monsters in horror tales, an artistic philosophy that guides Wake’s supernatural pen. We know the sequel’s victims, but it’s harder to make out the monsters stalking them from the shadows. Is it the zombie-like Taken wandering the woods? Is it the evil Mr. Scratch, whose identity has been a constant mystery in the series? Could it even be Wake himself? With few tangible antagonists to aim a pistol at, it feels like there’s no physical action either character can take to free themselves from their fates. The only way out is through, trying to see through the infinite darkness with a flashlight’s puny beam.
Genre shake-up In a thoughtful meta-decision, Alan Wake 2 pivots its genre to full-on survival horror (complete with an overabundance of repetitive jump scares). It looks and feels like a modern Resident Evil remake , something that seems thoughtfully intentional. As a game about the construction of horror, it makes perfect sense to build on a savvy video game player’s established knowledge of the genre. The third-person exploration, tight resource management, and light puzzle-solving all feel like they are part of a familiar construction, just like Wake writing his own story around literary tropes.
Remedy Entertainment While there are key differences in Saga and Alan’s gameplay portions, both are tied together by effective combat. Like the first game, it’s a third-person shooter where the twist is that enemies are weak to light and both characters can expose critical weak points with their flashlights. Shooting is slow and methodical, but otherworldly Taken enemies twitch and teleport erratically. Encounters hinge on that tension, as I need to be fast and accurate with my shots lest my bullets disappear into the abyss. Remedy is sparing with encounters and that’s for the best. Rather than fighting waves of Taken, ambushes are spread out just enough that I’m never quite sure when it’s safe to take my guard down. I’m always on edge as I poke into the darkness.
Combat is ultimately secondary to careful exploration, which gives me a chance to soak in Remedy’s intricately designed worlds or hunt for secret stashes locked behind logic puzzles. Saga’s story unfolds throughout three different locations (Bright Falls, Watery, and Cauldron Lake), each of which makes a limited explorable space feel like a full town. Less compelling are Saga’s frequent jaunts through forests that have me backtracking around winding paths that are easy to get turned around on. That works on a thematic level as the woods feel like a claustrophobic force suffocating Saga, but frequent map checks too often pulled me out of a world I wanted to stay lost in.
When it comes to puzzles, its rules are too rigid to be surprising.
While much of its format feels familiar, Remedy goes beyond the confines of the horror genre to pepper in its own original ideas. Considering that Saga is a detective, it only makes sense that her segments hinge around a bit of deduction. Her chapters have me fathering clues and evidence that I can bring to her “Mind Place” with the quick press of a button. Here, I can profile suspects by listening to their thoughts and pin my findings onto an evidence board. The latter is an excellent alternative to a traditional codex, as it lets players physically piece mysteries together. A sprawling story full of twists becomes much easier to understand when I feel like I’m the one solving it.
There are limits to that smart system, though. Despite the fact that Alan Wake 2 is all about uncovering mystery, it never lets players get ahead of its story. I’d often pin evidence onto a board that would lead Saga to an obvious revelation that had already been made clear in a proceeding dialogue. That idea bleeds into gameplay as well. While exploring the delightfully absurd Coffee World amusement park, I found a fuse that would let me turn on a java-themed ride. That opened up a secret area underneath it, but there was nothing to find. It turned out I was too far ahead of the story, as I had to trigger a specific plot event to be able to pick up an item I could see, but not interact with yet. Moments like that weaken both the detective hook of Saga’s chapters and Alan Wake 2 ’s wider thesis on the joy of mystery. When it comes to puzzles, its rules are too rigid to be surprising.
A note on tech I want to take a brief moment to talk about tech, as it’s currently the one major question mark surrounding the release. For the most part, Alan Wake 2 is something of a technical wonder on par with Marvel’s Spider-Man 2.
 It both looks and sounds fantastic, with Remedy flexing its art direction muscles until they burst. And I mean that literally.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends My own playthrough was, frankly, a mess. Slow asset loading would leave me falling through the world or stuck waiting for a staircase to spawn. Frequent bugs had me scrubbing back to previous saves. My most serious issue had me encountering a game-breaking hard lock that stopped me from progressing. Remedy provided me a local save state in order to continue, but has yet to confirm if the bug I experienced would make it into the launch version. Another writer on our team experienced a different game-breaking bug that halted their playthrough on PS5.
 Review codes for Alan Wake 2 only went out to critics less than a week before its embargo date with Remedy working on critical fixes up until the last minute. Xbox codes were not made available until the last minute either, which leaves serious concerns about how it runs on Xbox Series S.
After a lot of testing, it seems as though Alan Wake 2 struggles on lower-end machines. A lack of HDD support will also cause nightmares for unsuspecting players casually diving in with their PC rig. Experiences will wildly vary depending on your setup, which makes it difficult to confidently assess this on a tech level. As such, I strongly recommend checking out our computing team’s report on PC performance , which details both its incredible accomplishments and its potential pain points. If you’re concerned that your rig won’t be able to hack it, don’t take the gamble.
A great awakening While Saga’s chapters have their weak points, Alan Wake’s are unimpeachable. His story takes place in the Dark Place, with the author trying to rewrite his mind-bending reality. That’s mostly accomplished through the sequel’s biggest puzzle component, as Alan’s own Mind Place allows him to change the world around him by pinning plot points onto locations. In an early chapter, I’m exploring a subway station and gathering plot beats to recreate an occult murder. When I find a plot point about a ritual and pin it to the location I’m in, the entire room changes in a flash. I’m suddenly standing in the center of a grizzly murder scene. It’s an astonishing feat only made possible thanks to modern hardware.
It certainly helps that the studio has assembled a murderers’ row of actors willing to go all in.
If you can believe it, those excellent puzzle sections aren’t even the most memorable parts of Wake’s chapters. Live-action talk show interludes, a film projection booth turned into an impossible labyrinth, and a sequence so jaw-droppingly entertaining that I wouldn’t dare to spoil it — moments like that make up the real heart of the experience, letting Remedy unleash its boldest, weirdest ideas in its most uncompromising creative vision to date.
It certainly helps that the studio has assembled a murderers’ row of actors willing to go all in (including Creative Director Sam Lake himself). Matthew Porretta offers a commanding performance as Wake, playing up the writer’s theatrical arrogance amid an unraveling mental breakdown. Equal credit goes to Iikka Villi, the real actor Wake is modeled on who gets to show as much range as Kyle MacLachlan in Twin Peaks: The Return in live-action sequences, bringing a range of doppelgangers to life with his malleable expressions. A game as special as this only works this well when everyone involved is willing to fearlessly trust-fall into a left-field vision together.
Remedy Entertainment As much as its dual stories tell horror tales that find victims fighting to survive the darkness, Alan Wake 2 itself embraces and celebrates the unknown with morbid fascination. It wants us to wince and cower at each of its horrific twists, but still eagerly turn each new page as fast as possible to see what happens next. Alan and Saga are drowning in their fears as the worlds around them flood into one deep, black ocean. And you’re invited to sink with them.
Alan Wake 2 was reviewed on PC.
Editors' Recommendations Alan Wake 2 studio is rebooting its upcoming multiplayer project All TV locations in Alan Wake 2 The best weapon upgrades in Alan Wake 2 Where to find all inventory upgrades in Alan Wake 2 All stash locations in Alan Wake 2 and how to open them Game Reviews Product Reviews Gaming It's time to dust off your typewriter, fill up your thermoses with coffee, and dive into your mind palaces because Alan Wake 2 is ready to take us back into the dark and disturbing world of Bright Falls and the Dark Place. Fans have been eagerly awaiting the next chapter in the horror writer's tale for over a decade, and the time to bring all the mysteries to light is nearly upon us. It is quite fitting that this more horror-centric sequel is hitting in the spooky month of October, and now we know precisely when you can join up with Alan and newcomer Saga to hopefully put an end to the evil forces at work. Aside from a flashlight and some fresh batteries, here are all the preload details you need to know for Alan Wake 2.
Alan Wake 2 release time https://twitter.com/alanwake/status/1715367336956309748?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw%7Ctwcamp%5Etweetembed%7Ctwterm%5E1715367336956309748%7Ctwgr%5E32782ce1452c87960ab80b088a9d761c97d544aa%7Ctwcon%5Es1_&ref_url=https%3A%2F%2Fvideogames.si.com%2Fguides%2Falan-wake-2-release-times-preload Alan Wake 2 will be released as early as 9 p.m. PT on October 26 and midnight on October 27 on the East Coast, and your local equivalent across the world. The above map shows all the major time zones for you.
Alan Wake 2 file size According to the PC requirements, Alan Wake 2 needs 90GB of free space, so the game should come in at just about that number. Console file sizes are still unclear, but should be in that same range, so be on the safe side and make sure you have at least 100GB free.
Alan Wake 2 preload options If you want to get ahead of the game and preload Alan Wake 2 so you can start playing the moment it launches, preloading will become available on October 25, so just one day before the full release in some time zones.
Alan Wake 2 preorder details If you want to preorder the digital-only Alan Wake 2, you can get either the standard edition with just the game, or the deluxe edition that comes with the expansion pass and some weapon skins and outfits.
Gaming The original Alan Wake is a game that went through quite a troubled development before it was finally released. After many iterations and changes in scope and direction, the final product was initially a cult hit, but didn't hit the mass market it needed -- at least not initially. After two DLC episodes, a sequel was in the works to build upon the first game and revive some of the elements that had to be cut from the first in order for it to ship, but this was ultimately not meant to be. The sequel was canceled and a smaller downloadable game, Alan Wake's American Nightmare, was released instead.
Since then, we hadn't heard from our intrepid writer until he showed up in a very unlikely place. Featured in the AWE expansion for a completely different game, Control, Alan was back in the picture. With a remaster of the initial game catching everyone up on his first appearance, now was the perfect time to announce that the long-awaited sequel was back in development. We haven't found all the manuscript pages yet, but here is everything we know about Alan Wake 2.
Release date https://twitter.com/alanwake/status/1692174551466316121?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw%7Ctwcamp%5Etweetembed%7Ctwterm%5E1692174551466316121%7Ctwgr%5E%7Ctwcon%5Es1_&ref_url= Gaming This year's Gamescom Opening Night Live concluded with a new look at Alan Wake 2, with a trailer finally showing off the Dark Place and what Alan Wake's gameplay segments look like.
Alan Wake World Premiere Trailer | gamescom Opening Night Live 2023 #ONL Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
