Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Assassin’s Creed Mirage review: stealth throwback feels behind the times By Tomas Franzese Close $50.00 Baghdad is a highlight Great lead performances Strong stealth Illusory nonlinearity Dated mission design Lackluster combat As assassin-in-training Basim works to become a Hidden One toward the start of Assassin’s Creed Mirage , he’s scolded by his mentor, Roshan. After asking Basim to make a leap of faith into a pile of leaves, Roshan says it’s clear that Basim’s mind isn’t fully committed. Although Basim is eventually able to overcome this throughout the opening and the entirety of the adventure, Assassin’s Creed Mirage as a whole suffers a similar crisis.
Beautiful Baghdad Sneaking like it’s 2007 Not really nonlinear Any long-running series like Assassin’s Creed needs to keep things fresh. In 2017, Assassin’s Creed Origins served as the start of a new era for the series that shifted its focus to historically educational RPGs in bold new settings. But that approach eventually got stale, and now it’s on Ubisoft to evolve the series yet again. With Mirage , Ubisoft aims to accomplish that by closely copying the formula of the pre- Origins games in the series while implementing a few tweaks to make missions more nonlinear. Unfortunately, that approach forgets why people wanted the Assassin’s Creed series to change in the first place.
All Assassin’s Creed Mirage outfit locations iPhone 15 Pro can natively run the latest Resident Evil and Assassin’s Creed games Assassin’s Creed Mirage is coming out earlier than expected At first, Assassin’s Creed Mirage seems like it’s going through all of the proper classical motions of an old-school Assassin’s Creed game, but it lacks the passion and innovation necessary to make it a truly memorable installment. While Ubisoft’s ability to create historical locations in immaculate detail is still unmatched, the bland story and missions demonstrate that Assassin’s Creed still needs to make a true leap of faith.
Beautiful Baghdad Assassin’s Creed Mirage follows the origin story of Basim, a supporting character in 2020’s Assassin’s Creed Valhalla.
 It’s a rags-to-riches self-discovery story set in ninth-century Baghdad about a street thief desperate to find great purpose with the Hidden Ones. While that might be an enticing premise for fans of Valhalla , the narrative as a whole isn’t too interesting — especially if you know a lot about Basim already. Although Lee Majdoub (Basim) and Roshan actress Shohreh Aghdashloo give excellent performances, the rest of Mirage’s characters are forgettable, including the Templar targets who are supposed to make for memorable assassinations. Even the cinematography and cutscenes feel like they’re going through the motions.
An underwhelming story pressures other aspects of the game to deliver.
Basim’s journey of self-discovery and Roshan’s role as an overprotective master hit all of the expected story beats for those archetypes. Some late-game twists attempt to make the narrative more engaging, but are very confusing unless you deeply understand Assassin’s Creed lore. This isn’t a bold storytelling leap for the series like Origins was, and it almost entirely ignores the modern-day story thread that makes the series so unique.
An underwhelming story pressures other aspects of the game to deliver. Thankfully, the world design and educational elements of Mirage do just that. Baghdad and its surrounding desert are realized in stunning detail; I love walking around the streets or riding on a mount in cinematic mode. It’s a city that feels historically accurate and aptly dense ,yet still has some sort of parkour pathway for players to follow no matter which direction they decide to run in. A dynamic notoriety system, which increases the amount of patrolling enemies as Basim causes more chaos, also helps the world feel more lively.
Ubisoft Historically accurate, yet gamified world design has always been a part of the Assassin’s Creed’s core identity and was not something that needed to change, so it’s good to see Ubisoft at the top of its game here. Although the lack of a Discovery Tour mode at launch is disappointing, Historical Sites throughout Baghdad feature collectibles that unlock History of Baghdad codex entries, which are entertaining and informative reads.
Sneaking like it’s 2007 If you played any Assassin’s Creed game between 2007 and 2015, you’ll know what to expect from Mirage.
 It’s an open-world game stuffed with collectibles that players can search for between missions where the main goal is to investigate, stalk, and then kill targets. I appreciate that this approach means there is an emphasis on stealth rather than bloated RPG elements, even if combat here isn’t as fun as it was in some previous entries. Players are able to parkour around almost all of the buildings in Baghdad, and the controls feel intuitive, as there’s always something for Basim to latch on to as long as you’re pressing forward and tapping the A button. That’s part of Assassin’s Creed’s core identity that has never needed to change.
Mirage recognizes that.
The stealth-to-combat gameplay loop will have its nostalgic fans, but it feels dated in 2023.
The freedom of parkour is important as it opens up more opportunities for stealth. In main missions and side contracts, players often have a certain target that they need to take out of a group of enemies to pick off. While recent Assassin’s Creed titles leaned more toward players overcoming these obstacles by taking on foes head-on, Mirage encourages stealth. Before any fight, I always use Basim’s Eagle Sense and bird companion Enkidu to scout out how many enemies are in a location and where. Then, I parkour on the rooftops around them or hide in tall grass so I can sneak up close and kill them. One of Mirage ‘s most satisfying new gameplay elements is the Assassin’s Focus ability, which allows Basim to take out up to five enemies in one fell swoop. It’s almost a superpower.
There are opportunities for Basim to wear disguises or use tokens (earned from side missions) to convince certain factions to attack enemies. These tools never feel as useful as picking off enemies one by one, just as players have been able to since the first Assassin’s Creed in 2007. While it’s possible to complete most missions without being seen, I was still spotted at times. In those moments, I had to choose to run away or fight head-on.
Mirage ‘s combat, unfortunately, is a step back from the modern games in that regard. Basim is slow, controller bumpers don’t feel great to use as attack buttons, and the window where I have to choose to parry or dodge an incoming attack feels way too short.
Ubisoft While some of Mirage ‘s throwback elements work, combat is one element where I can feel why it was important for the series to move on. The stealth-to-combat gameplay loop will have its nostalgic fans, but it feels dated in 2023. If I ever do find myself yearning for the old-school Assassin’s Creed formula, I can just go back and play those older games.
Not really nonlinear I’d hoped for a bit more originality from Mirage , but it’s newer ideas don’t always pan out. Take its commendable, but imperfect nonlinear gameplay approach. A kernel of an excellent idea for the future of the series is there, as Basim’s targets are laid out across an investigation board and players must discover clues to find them. This is only nonlinear in presentation, though; it’s just a fancy way to lay out the two or three tasks that I needed to do before a killer set piece. Assassinations never feel like an emergent player moment like it can in a game like Shadows of Doubt.
When it comes to specific objective locations, the map only marks their general area, not the exact placement. When introducing the significant assassination missions where Basim is assassinating members of the Templar Order, Mirage consistently highlights how there are usually multiple ways to complete objectives before sending him off to kill a target. This suggests that these assassinations would work like a mission in Hitman , but they lack that nonlinear depth and play quite traditionally. The only real difference now is that players must constantly use Eagle Vision to find precisely where objectives are rather than have a UI marker on the screen.
Assassinations never feels like an emergent player moment … Most of the time, I only found alternate pathways into the area where I could do the linear infiltration and assassination gameplay the series has done since 2007. Needing to put in a little more effort to find these by-the-numbers paths didn’t enhance these moments by much. Once you peel back any attempts at nonlinear play, Mirage is an action-adventure open-world game that feels stuck in 2015. The genre has made great strides since then, partly thanks to Assassin’s Creed titles, but Mirage feels behind the times. While there’s nothing explicitly terrible about Mirage’s design, I felt lethargic playing through stealth missions that ignored any improvements made to the genre over the past decade.
Ubisoft / Ubisoft This formula rewind is great for fans who were missing that era and open-world formula, but boring for those like me who understand why it was time for Ubisoft to evolve that classic formula. I do see a future for the series where it embraces nonlinearity, hewing closer to series like Dishonored or Hitman in an intricately recreated historical setting. Unfortunately, the attempts toward that are held back by other extremely dated aspects of its design. Ubisoft is still a master at creating locations I want to explore, but it still needs to find new ways to make what I’m discovering more enticing.
While Ubisoft went through all the proper motions to make a new game in the old Assassin’s Creed style, it did so without much of an attempt to push the formula forward. Those yearning for the good old days might appreciate that, but it misses a chance for reinvention that other franchises have enjoyed in recent years. Series like The Legend of Zelda , Final Fantasy, and even Pokemon have found exciting ways to evolve. Even Assassin’s Creed has done this once before. Perhaps it’s time for Ubisoft to take another leap of faith and discover where Assassin’s Creed can go next.
Assassin’s Creed Mirage was reviewed on Xbox Series X.
Editors' Recommendations All Lost Book locations in Assassin’s Creed Mirage The best skills to get in Assassin’s Creed Mirage Assassin’s Creed Mirage: release date, trailers, gameplay, and more Assassin’s Creed Mirage gameplay trailer shows a return to franchise roots Ubisoft Forward 2023: How to watch and what to expect Action Games Game Reviews Product Reviews Gaming Assassin's Creed Mirage got a new gameplay trailer during today's PlayStation Showcase. Ubisoft's next open-world game will launch on October 12, and preorders for the upcoming game are now open.
Assassin's Creed Mirage Official Gameplay Trailer Gaming Google recently announced that it plans to shutter its cloud gaming service Stadia in early 2023, leaving players who used it as one of their primary platforms in an awkward situation. Google already promised to refund people for their Google Stadia hardware and software purchases, but people are still losing access to games they enjoyed and save files they possibly dumped hours into. Thankfully, some developers are working on ways to help Stadia players.
The most notable studio to help Stadia players is Ubisoft, which was Google's earliest partner for the technology via an Assassin's Creed Odyssey demo. "While Stadia will shut down on January 18, 2023, we're happy to share that we're working to bring the games you own on Stadia to PC through Ubisoft Connect," Ubisoft tweeted. "We'll have more to share regarding specific details, as well as the impact for Ubisoft+ subscribers, at a later date." Thankfully, the Stadia versions of Assassin’s Creed Valhalla, Far Cry 6, Immortals Fenyx Rising, Tom Clancy’s The Division 2, and Watch Dogs: Legion support cross-progression, so players won't lose their save files.
https://twitter.com/UbisoftSupport/status/1575922767593078793 Ubisoft isn't the only developer to help. Developer Muse Games is giving Embr Steam codes to those who played its comedic co-op firefighting game on Stadia if they email the developer with screenshots of Embr in their Stadia library. Meanwhile, IO Interactive confirmed that it is "looking into ways for you to continue your Hitman experience on other platforms," as the World of Assassination trilogy was available on Google Stadia.
There's still the matter of the five Google Stadia exclusives: Gylt, Hello Engineer, Outcasters, Pac-Man Mega Tunnel Battle, and PixelJunk Raiders. So far, only one of those games seems like it will be saved. PixelJunk Raiders developer Q-Games said in a blog post that "we hope to find a way to continue to share the vibrant worlds of Planet Tantal in the future, and we’re open to discussing opportunities to find the right publishing partner to make it happen.. Tequila Works, tinyBuild, Splash Damage, and Bandai Namco Entertainment did not respond to requests for comment from Digital Trends.
While the shutdown of Google Stadia is disappointing for players like myself who enjoy cloud gaming, at least players will be get refunds, and in some cases get the game for a new platform.
Gaming The next Assassin's Creed is fast approaching, but this one isn't quite like the last few we've had. Rather than follow the open-world, western RPG style that Origins kicked off, Assassin's Creed Mirage is taking things back to basics in a lot of ways. It will be a more focused, story-heavy game that takes place primarily in just one city and will only last around 20 hours instead of up to 200. The focus once again is on stealth and using your skills to assassinate targets, as well as your parkour and tools.
Just because Assassin's Creed Mirage was built off of what was first intended to be DLC for Valhalla, that doesn't mean it isn't going to have just as much care and attention put into it as any other Ubisoft title. In line with this, there are three individual editions of the game already up for pre-order to pick from. Whether you've been with the brotherhood since the inception of the hidden blade or jumped in when RPG mechanics and loot were brought onboard, there's a lot of content between the different editions to choose between. Here's all you need to know.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
