Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Features The Atari 2600+ is a retro console blueprint that everyone should follow By Giovanni Colantonio Close Giovanni Colantonio / Digital Trends I can still remember every detail of my years spent playing my mom’s hand-me-down Atari 2600 as a kid. I had the system set up on an old CRT TV in the corner of my bedroom. On weekends, I’d sit down on my soft blue carpet and crack open my mom’s dusty old cartridge case. I can feel the sensation of forcing a chunky game into the console’s slot until it clicks into place. I remember what it felt like to run my fingers on top of the console’s textured plastic design or to fight against the resistance in the system’s tight joystick. Sure, I still have strong memories of playing Pac-Man or Space Invaders , but I just as strongly recall the exact distance I was positioned from my screen, sitting in the same cross-legged position.
Feel the past A transporting artifact While companies love to rerelease the games we love, few of them have found ways to preserve the physical act of actually playing those games. Devices like the NES Classic are cute novelties that recreate the look of their old counterparts, but they fall short when it comes to honoring the rituals that formed around the system. Clicking a cartridge into place and blowing on it to try and get it to work is as much a part of Super Mario Bros.
as the platforming.
Atari seems to understand that and has worked that idea into its newest retro console: the Atari 2600+. It isn’t just another dime-a-dozen console recreation crafted for easy nostalgia; it’s one of the few devices of its kind to actually capture the feel of the iconic system.
 That’s a feat that few others can claim — but I hope they follow suit.
Atari’s VCS computer console is getting Google’s full suite of apps Atari to begin shipping restyled version of classic game console in June Feel the past The Atari 2600+ is an uncompromising retro system — which is both its most niche aspect and its greatest strength. It’s a nearly 1:1 recreation of the original Atari 2600, except that it can easily hook up to a TV via HDMI and has a button that switches between 4:3 and 16:9 aspect ratios. Otherwise, it’s an incredibly faithful recreation that’s fully functional. It still features levers that change game modes, difficulty, and TV type on the fly. It comes bundled with a gloriously imperfect Atari joystick, and really dedicated fans can even grab a pair of paddles separately. Every single piece I’ve tested looks and feels exactly as I remember.
That’s all commendable, but the 2600+’s best quality is its approach to games. This isn’t another all-in-one game console that just preloads a dozen classics onto the device. Instead, it still features a fully functional cartridge slot that plays both newly released Atari cartridges and any old ones from the 1980s. That makes it a tough sell for anyone who doesn’t have access to old Atari games. The system comes with a 10-in-1 cartridge that contains classics like Missile Command , but it’s otherwise up to players to hunt down games. Frankly, I can’t imagine most people will have old cartridges lying around to make use of the device.
But I do.
Giovanni Colantonio / Digital Trends Long before I got a Sony PlayStation or Nintendo GameCube , the Atari 2600 would become my first video game console. My mother gave me her old one when I was a kid, complete with paddles, joysticks, and a treasured box of cartridges. Some of those games would go on to become my favorites of all time. I still remember spending months on end picking away at Pitfall.
 I’d barely even get past its fifth screen in my years with it, but I would come back to it day after day all the same. To this day, I still hold a closer emotional connection to that system than anything I’ve owned since. It connects me to my mother, but it’s also the reason that I love games and why I even get to sit here writing about them like this today.
The moment I heard about the Atari 2600+, I called my mom and asked if our old system was still in storage somewhere. It was, continuing to endure decades later like a cockroach. I had her ship up the old game case, which arrived just a week or so before the new console made its way to me. With both in hand, I instinctively began to set up my living room play space almost exactly as it had been in my old bedroom. I placed the console down on a little rug, neatly placing the game case to its right with the lid off. Rather than sitting on my couch, I got down cross-legged on my floor and placed that same exact Pitfall cartridge — still vibrant green under its fading label — in the slot with a tight click. I flipped the thick, metal power switch and waited for the screen to flicker.
Giovanni Colantonio / Digital Trends The moment that familiar opening screen popped up on my TV, miraculously running off the same cartridge, my heart fluttered. Years of my childhood came flooding back to me in a wash of green pixels. I could feel my old carpet on my legs, smell the musk coming off the old machine, even hear the faint static of that CRT TV.
For the next few hours, I’d pop in every cartridge I owned to unlock even more of those memories. I’d slot in Spider-Man and instantly remember that I could never figure out how to beat Green Goblin as a kid (I still have not).
Pac-Man would gobble up my time as I remembered just how limited the original game was, with its straight lines instead of dots. I’d even make some oddball rediscoveries like Circus , a morbid variant of Breakout that has two trapeze artists launching each other on a seesaw — and splatting dead when they hit the ground.
A transporting artifact A lot of these old Atari games hold up shockingly well. When I attached a paddle controller and booted up Pong -variant Video Olympics , I found I was just as engaged in the classic duel as I am in a modern multiplayer shooter with all its glitz and glamour. A big part of that comes down to the Atari 2600’s most underrated feature: the physicality of its controls. Spinning a paddle or wrestling with a joystick feels more active and physical than pressing buttons on a gamepad. When I play Breakout , it’s like I’m carefully steering a car. That experience simply can’t be replicated with a standard joystick; you need to feel that spinning circle on your fingertips. The Atari 2600+ offers an easy way to do that, capturing the feel of the era.
Giovanni Colantonio / Digital Trends Though what ends up captivating me most during my tests is the same game that’s always held my heart: Pitfall.
 Once I loaded it up, I couldn’t stop playing the old-school side-scroller. It’s as captivating as Uncharted , boiling down the now-bloated action-adventure genre it spawned to its essence. It’s a simple platformer filled with precise challenges and genuine surprises; you never know what will happen on each new screen. Returning to it as an adult meant tackling it with much more skill, which finally let me see what was beyond the first few screens I’d spent hours trying to perfect. I audibly gasped when I reached a screen I’d never found as a kid and discovered a growing and retracting sinkhole. Decades later, one of my favorite games was still finding ways to surprise me.
The Atari 2600+ is the most personal experience I’ve ever had with a piece of gaming tech. Rather than feeling like another holiday season cash grab for retro players, it feels like a true historical artifact recreated with the love and care it deserves. It won’t have the same impact for those who never had the console and just want to play old games ( Atari 50: The Anniversary Celebration is better for that), but the games aren’t fully the point. It’s the feeling of brushing your hand over its ridges, the worry that you’re about to snap a cartridge when pushing it into the slot, your body tilting in tandem with the joystick. It’s easy for games to take our brains back to the past, but the Atari 2600+ transports my body back too.
When I turn it on, I am home.
Editors' Recommendations Atari celebrates its 50th birthday with a new, working 2600 cartridge Plex Arcade brings classic Atari console titles to your TV for $5 per month Features Gaming We've had a dancing game and musou spinoff, but now the Persona 5 cast has entered the realm of tactics with Persona 5 Tactica. The translation feels obvious when you think about it, but naturally, there have to be some changes to make it fit. For fans of the original JRPG, experimenting with the new combat system will take a little getting used to, especially relearning what skills are best. This game is quite friendly to those who are not as well-versed in the genre and allows you to try out your build and completely rework it if you need to. If you've invested your GP in some skills you're unhappy with, here's how you can respec in Persona 5 Tactica.
How to respec in Persona 5 Tactica Each character has their own skill tree that you can invest your GP into for buffs and skills. The way you invest early on can make the first few hours either much more difficult or a smoother experience. If you're feeling some buyer's remorse, respecing any character is not only easy, but can be done as many times as you like at no cost.
Gaming Nintendo’s Super Mario series is so monumental to the medium of video games that you might even think of the mustachioed plumber when you hear “video games” mentioned at all. From his earliest days when he battled Donkey Kong as “Jumpman.” to his latest adventures on the Nintendo Switch, to his latest movie appearance in The Super Mario Bros. Movie, Mario has consistently been one of the greatest characters in video games. He’s such an iconic character that countless video games have had him as the star, and here we have ranked them.
For our list, we had two main criteria. First, the games have to be platformers -- either 2D or 3D. This eliminates Mario sports games, the Mario Kart series, role-playing games, and all the Mario Parties. Secondly, the games have to have Mario himself as the lead character. This eliminated Super Mario Land 3 and Super Mario World 2: Yoshi’s Island. In the end, we were left with 22 games. None of them are bad, but we did have to name a loser. We also chose to omit The Lost Levels and instead considered Super Mario Bros. 2 as the definitive second game in the series.
Gaming Rocksteady made a name for itself as one of the first teams to make a universally acclaimed superhero game with Batman: Arkham Asylum. It followed that success with two sequels, the even more beloved Batman: Arkham City and the divisive, though still fantastic Batman: Arkham Knight. Fans were left waiting to hear what this studio would tackle next. Most assumed it would be another DC property, since it is owned by Warner Bros. Games, and those suspicions turned out to be right on the money, though with a property not many would have predicted.
Suicide Squad: Kill the Justice League was given a formal announcement as the newest project from Rocksteady at the DC FanDome event in 2020. At the time, outside of the graphic novels, of course, we only had the one flop of a film based on this antihero group, so many fans were hesitant to see Rocksteady tackle this property. Now that we've gotten a few trailers and footage of gameplay, however, it has become clear that Rocksteady hasn't lost its touch. We took on this suicide mission for you and made off with all the details you need to know about Suicide Squad: Kill the Justice League.
Release date Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
