Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Reviews Cocoon review: mesmerizing indie will put you inside of a bug’s brain By Giovanni Colantonio Close $25.00 Ingenious puzzle design Natural gameplay flow Excellent use of sound Mesmerizing art Structural repetition Tedious late-game puzzles I was visiting Pittsburgh last month during the height of the city’s spotted lanternfly crisis. No matter where I walked, I was bound to bump into no fewer than a dozen insects swarming my body. I wouldn’t get a close look at one, though, until one landed next to me as I was eating breakfast one morning. With it sidling up to me fearlessly, I could observe its almost alien structure closely. It had menacingly dark limbs carrying a gorgeous pair of wings that almost hypnotized me, as if it was a defense mechanism built to keep humans from squashing it. I couldn’t stop thinking about how such a tiny, intricate creature was causing a national crisis.
Animal instinct Machine-like efficiency That thought would stick in my mind as I played through Cocoon.
 The debut surrealist puzzle adventure game from Geometric Interactive (a new studio spun off from Inside developer Playdead) puts me in control of a winged insect navigating an intricate sci-fi world that fuses organic and mechanical design. As I solved puzzles without so much as a word of direction, I began to feel like that spotted lanternfly: a tiny creature capable of navigating a complicated world on instinct alone.
Everything announced at the Annapurna Interactive Showcase Cocoon is a striking experience that’s unlike anything I’ve played before. It’s an otherworldly celebration of the small creatures on our planet that operate with machinelike efficiency. Elegantly designed, though at times routine, puzzles teleport me into the mind of a bug, an unknowable, instinctive intelligence I yearn to understand.
Animal instinct When I select New Game from Cocoon ’s main menu, I’m suddenly born anew – something that’s made clear with some not-so-subtle imagery. Without a single word or line of explanation, I’m placed in control of a winged creature that’s part man, part beetle. I have no idea where I am, my reason for existing, or even what kind of game I’m about to play. I’m never even given a controller tutorial; I’m an infant crawling out of the womb.
Annapurna Interactive To make it through the world, I need to survive on instinct alone. A premise that puts so much faith in players can be tricky, but Geometric Interactive is the perfect team for the job. That’s thanks in no small part to game director Carlsen Jeppe, who was the lead gameplay designer behind Limbo and Inside.
 Both of those games featured a similar design philosophy of naturally guiding players through eerie worlds without explicitly telling them what to do. That doesn’t just carry over into Cocoon ; it’s the entire heart of the project.
It doesn’t take long for me to find my bearings. When I see a circular pattern on the ground, I walk over to it and press a button on my controller without a second thought. It’s an innate reflex that kicks out of me. That reaction continues when I finally discover the adventure’s core puzzle hook. When finding an orb that I can carry like a dung beetle, I discover that I can jump inside of it and explore a world housed within it. It’s an awe-inspiring technical magic trick as I seamlessly dive between worlds.
I feel like I’m tapping into some inherent intelligence inside of me.
The bulk of Cocoon ’s puzzles are built around a sort of efficient juggling act, especially as I find more orbs. To navigate the world, I need to rely on my spatial reasoning skills to carefully place the objects in the environment. Sometimes it’s as simple as placing an orb on a round receptacle to move a hovering platform. Other times, I need to drop orbs within orbs so I can move them all at once. One puzzle has me positioning one inside of another, placing it in front of a turret, and letting the shot travel through them both to open a passage at the right time. Anytime I solve a mind-bending puzzle, I feel like I’m tapping into some inherent intelligence inside of me.
I’d love to take credit for figuring it all out on my own, but a big part of that comes from Geometric’s ingenious design decisions. Its intricate world is mystifying, but not illegible. It’s always clear what I can interact with using the game’s elegantly streamlined one-button control scheme. Most clever is its use of sound to subtly push players in the right direction. The eerie, atmospheric soundscape isn’t just for show; when I’m on the right track to solving a puzzle, the music swells to let me know I’m right before I solve it. It’s an almost invisible detail that fuels its instinctual gameplay loop without totally leaving players to fend for themselves.
Machine-like efficiency The more I play, the more I become fluent in Cocoon ’s mysterious visual language. A surrealist landscape of alien shapes becomes second nature to me. What once was a vague clearing dotted with inscrutable black symbols becomes a simple keypad puzzle I need to solve to unlock a drone. I begin to see patterns baked into both the world and the game design itself, allowing me to operate with the focus of a hive-minded worker ant that always knows where to march.
Cocoon explicitly plays with that dynamic, exploring the intersection between organic life-forms and their at times mechanical efficiency. That idea is even baked into its captivating art direction, as landscapes seamlessly weave together natural insect structures and sci-fi machinery. When I shock a bridge by placing an orb in a round slot, the textured platforms unfurl like a fly’s wings. I feel like a new species born out of a technological singularity.
I slowly morph into an autonomous being running on stimulus-driven instinct.
While it’s a compelling interplay, Cocoon ’s structure can at times feel rote. For most of the four-hour game, I’m repeating the same basic gameplay loop. I find an orb, solve a repeated puzzle to get a drone, bring it to a machine that unlocks a vault door, and infuse that orb with a navigational power-up that lets me begin that loop anew. By the third time I repeated that process, I began slipping out of the hypnotizing world as I could feel the “video game” behind it all.
Some of those issues are compounded by some late-game puzzles made tedious by slow game mechanics. More complex challenges require me to slowly walk orbs back and forth between locations or to repeatedly dive in and out of worlds. The fluid pace stalls out in those sequences as it feels like I’m spending more time setting up solutions than actually solving puzzles.
Annapurna Interactive While those moments aren’t always as engrossing as Cocoon ’s more mesmerizing sequences, there’s a thematic function to them. The deeper I get into the adventure, the more confident I become. The repetitious beats and movements bring me closer to the mind of an insect with each turn. I slowly morph into an autonomous being running on stimulus-driven instinct. I know exactly where to go and what to do without thinking about it. When I stop and realize how much I’m navigating complex challenges without racking my brain, I flash back to my breakfast with that spotted lanternfly. How was such a small creature thriving in a completely unfamiliar city? Cocoon brings me one step closer to understanding that mystery. For four hours, I was that tiny creature making the most of my whirlwind existence. I was born into an overwhelmingly alien world and forced to break it down into patterns if I was going to survive. Perhaps my winged friend and I had more in common than I realized. And I hope he felt the same before he was unceremoniously squashed.
Cocoon was reviewed on PC.
Editors' Recommendations Itch.io’s indie bundle for abortion funds lands you 792 games for $10 Game Reviews Product Reviews Gaming Lego sets bring joy to our and our kids' eyes. They can help build real problem solving skills by following instructions, encourage creativity by dismissing the instructions and making fun modifications, or be the tools to create something entirely on our own from the ground up. There are tons of Black Friday Lego deals, as you might've guessed, but few places due it as well as Walmart does. Between official Black Friday deals and associated clearance items, the retail giant now has over 80 sets on sale as part of its Walmart Black Friday deals. Go shop the sale now via the button below or read on to see our favorite picks.
Our favorite Walmart Black Friday Lego deal Web With so many Black Friday deals already under way, it can be tough to keep on top of everything. Walmart has dozens of different awesome deals so we've narrowed things down to the best Walmart Black Friday deals currently available. There's a little bit of everything here with discounts on TVs, headphones, laptops, coffee makers, and much more. The retailer is also having a massive Black Friday Lego sale. Whatever you're considering buying, keep reading while we take you through some great options.
Other retailers have started early too, so check out Amazon Black Friday deals and Best Buy Black Friday deals.
Gaming Who doesn't love LEGO? If you're looking for the perfect gift for your kids or yourself, you can save some money during LEGO Black Friday deals. We've pulled some of our favorite options from the most popular LEGO sets, including Marvel, Star Wars, Technics and Speed Champions. There are also some generic sets at the bottom. Most of these are part of the massive Walmart Black Friday LEGO sale, so check that out too. While there are early Black Friday deals, they may not last until the actual shopping event. If you see something, you should grab it today.
Black Friday LEGO Marvel deals The LEGO and Marvel collaboration has brought joy to children for years now. If you want a cheap way to collect figures from your favorite Marvel comics, movies and TV shows, LEGO sets are a great place to start. Below we've pulled some cheap sets that include adult-focused sets like the Infinity Gauntlet and full-size action figures as well as some kid-friendly sets that focus on a mini-fig with some scenery.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
