Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Cyberpunk 2077: Phantom Liberty review: CD Projekt Red pulls off a perfect illusion By Jesse Lennox Close $30.00 Superb world and level design Fantastic performances Revamped gunplay Lack of onboarding Everyone and everything in Cybperunk 2077: Phantom Liberty , the game’s long-awaited first DLC , is expendable. That includes everyone from the former CEO of a private military company who’s currently in her third presidential term to the rogue colonel straight out of Heart of Darkness who refuses to give up control of a section of Night City, as well as the mercenary V, who is caught in the middle and only looking for a way to survive. People are little more than tools that, once no longer useful to the person one rung up on the sociopolitical ladder, will be tossed into the piles of trash lining the streets. No one is free in the New United State (NUSA), but the facade must be upheld on every level.
Lords of Dogtown A fresh foundation Play or get played Your freedom isn’t real — liberty is but an illusion — but no one is willing to face that reality.
Cyberpunk 2077: Phantom Liberty Relic guide Cyberpunk 2077 cheat codes: money, weapons, and more A new Witcher trilogy and Cyberpunk game are in development at CD Projekt Red Cyberpunk 2077: Phantom Liberty wants you to feel like a pawn being led around by a carrot on a stick — one we know V will never reach since the story takes place before the end of the game proper. That conceit would normally diffuse any tension or stakes, but in this case, it adds to the DLC’s thematic power. Your promised liberation is but a phantom. The reason you play along all the same is because the characters, world, and stakes all feel real.
Lords of Dogtown Dogtown, the new area Phantom Liberty takes place in, by design needs to make some structural concessions to explain why this part of Night City wasn’t accessible until now. The narrative answer the game provides goes above and beyond a few simple bits of lore. Developer CD Projekt Red actually fleshes out a history that ties into the central conflict. Dogtown is a walled-off, highly restricted district in Night City that was essentially annexed by Colonel Kurt Hansen during the Unification War as the militaristic tyrant simply refused to give it up. Once he established it as a profitable black market, the government no longer felt a need to do more than keep him contained within his own walled “utopia.” CD Projekt Red That uneasy peace is jeopardized when the president of the NUSA — who was also responsible for that same Unification War — is stranded in Dogtown. What unfolds is a powder keg of political, corporate, and personal tensions that threaten to cause a chain reaction of consequences that will ripple from V’s goal of survival up to the fate of the entire country. There are no isolated elements in this story. Every character has some history with the others, something to hide, something to gain, or a reason to play you against someone else. Who you trust is up to you, and the decisions you make feel anything but weightless. By keeping the scale of the stakes balanced — from finding the mysterious Songbird who promises to cure your biochip problem to the fate of the net at large — I always felt invested and believed I was making an impact at least on a micro level.
Dogtown itself is as dingy, dirty, and despondent as its inhabitants, but simultaneously full of life and color. The streets are cramped, and piles of garbage line the graffiti-marked buildings in a way that brings a sense of realism and history to this pocket of dystopia. The more cramped and constrained environments result in far more intricate levels that allow for a high level of freedom in how you approach each situation. Everything and everyone you meet in this rundown hole is as convincing and believable in their appearance as they are in performance. Songbird, President Myers, Reed, and the entire supporting cast pull off an amazing feat of presenting their personalities and motivations while simultaneously giving you compelling threads you want to pull on as the story unravels.
Cyberpunk 2077 is now the game it should have been all along.
Phantom Liberty , along with the 2.0 update, is the culmination of CD Projekt Red’s efforts to rehabilitate the game’s troubled launch.
 Having not played since those early months before any patches, coming into this expansion finally felt like the game had reached the state it was always meant to. Aside from one instance where the game saved as I was dying, sending me into a perpetual death loop until I loaded a prior save, I experienced few technical issues during my playthrough. Everything, from the frame rate and physics to the AI, finally feels stable. It may have taken nearly three years, but Cyberpunk 2077 is now the game it should have been all along.
A fresh foundation Gameplay in Phantom Liberty is clearly built off of the bones of the original release, but it gets to shine here. It’s nothing revolutionary in terms of changes or how the missions are formatted, but it has been tuned and tightened in a way that finally clicks things into place. Guns in particular feel more satisfying across the board, from their responsiveness to feedback that is unique to each model. Swapping weapons now feels more like changing personalities rather than just having a different rate of fire and seeing damage numbers appearing above an enemy’s head. This alone makes choosing your approach to each mission — when allowed — far more satisfying as you know that each route available will be as compelling as the others. This isn’t a reinvention of or full sequel to what Cyberpunk 2077 was, but more of a remaster of the mechanics to fully achieve the team’s vision.
CD Projekt Red Mission structure does suffer a bit from a lot of “hurry up and wait.” If you’re not invested in the story and characters, the often lengthy conversations that precede many missions could easily become tiring. From a high-level perspective, the entire series of missions feels well crafted in terms of pacing. You will ride a roller coaster of small-scale encounters, share quiet moments with characters, get let loose in an open environment to approach as you wish, and receive a nice punctuation mark of a cinematic action sequence. The main missions alone pull me along from one to the next naturally in the same way a good TV show leaves me reaching for the remote to continue to the next episode.
CD Projekt Red set a high standard for itself after releasing its two expansions for The Witcher 3 , and Phantom Liberty clears that bar. Despite being in a somewhat compact zone, there are dozens of hours of content here between the 13 main missions, 17 side gigs, and other optional content to explore.
Play or get played Phantom Liberty bills itself as a spy thriller tale of espionage and intrigue. In terms of the narrative, characters, and mission-theming, that description holds true. In practice, players bounce back and forth between the most bombastic set piece battles and tense noir meetups in shady bars where they formulate plans to pull off classic spy story plots. Many missions do keep things open-ended — go stealthy, use tech skills, do some smooth talking, or put a bullet in the head of anyone with a health bar — but this is much more of a Mission Impossible than a Tinker, Tailor, Soldier, Spy.
I never felt like I was more than 30 minutes away from a firefight, explosion, or set piece, appropriate or not.
The world of Cyberpunk 2077 feels tailor-made for this type of espionage thriller.
Players are given the freedom to start Phantom Liberty without touching the main Cyberpunk 2077 experience right from the title screen. Doing so will automatically level V, distribute skill points, and outfit them with a loadout of weapons and tools. I hadn’t touched the game since launch, and my file was long gone, so I came at this expansion essentially as a new player. This is not the way to experience Phantom Liberty.
 There are no tutorials or refreshers on gameplay, let alone the story or characters. I was thrown into Night City at some unspecified time, getting a call that used half-remembered lingo to recruit me into the plot, with the ghost of Keanu Reeves cracking wise in the background. Granted, this isn’t intended to be a player’s first exposure to the Cyberpunk world, but it is an option. And that option isn’t exactly accounted for.
Once acclimated, Phantom Liberty does add in one major new skill tree to experiment with in addition to the massive rework of the existing ones as part of the 2.0 update. That skill tree holds substantial abilities, but they would be for naught if the moment-to-moment gunplay hadn’t received such a robust upgrade.
CD Projekt Red The world of Cyberpunk 2077 feels tailor-made for this type of espionage thriller. The backdrop and lore of a dystopian future where humans have essentially reached the singularity with technology flow seamlessly into a tale of subterfuge and conspiracy, just as it does bombastic firefights and explosions. Every performance is top-notch, including the character of Dogtown itself. Despite being walled off from the rest of Night City, its tendrils reach out to every corner of the world in a believable way that keeps you feeling like you’re still in the same place and not shoveled off to DLC land where nothing of importance is allowed to come in or out.
That’s what is most impressive about Phantom Liberty.
 I know that I’m mostly shackled within the walls of Dogtown, but CD Projekt uses those walls as building blocks to further invest me in the characters and events, rather than simply ignoring or trying to paint over them.
Cybperpunk 2077: Phantom Liberty was reviewed on PS5.
Editors' Recommendations All new weapons in Cyberpunk 2077: Phantom Liberty DLC Cyberpunk 2077: How to start Phantom Liberty DLC How to make money fast in Cyberpunk 2077 Cyberpunk 2077 resurges with 1 million daily players this week Cyberpunk 2077’s Phantom Liberty DLC not coming to last-gen consoles Game Reviews Product Reviews Gaming During an investor relations call, CD Projekt Red revealed that its long-awaited story expansion for Cyberpunk 2077 will not be released this year. Instead, the expansion is set to release sometime in 2023.
https://twitter.com/CyberpunkGame/status/1514646107434987532?s=20&t=RlvdedDMZ8OHf66Mznx86Q Gaming In a lengthy stream detailing a suite of improvements coming to Cyberpunk 2077, developer CD Projekt Red announced that the game's current-gen update is available today.
Cyberpunk 2077 — Next-Gen Gameplay | PlayStation 5 Gaming Cyberpunk 2077 developer CD Projekt Red quietly announced today that the game wouldn't be receiving anymore updates, or anymore of its long-promised free DLC, until next year. The announcement comes just a week after the company announced that next-gen versions of Cyberpunk 2077 and The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt were also delayed to 2022.
The announcement was made through a subtle change to a news post on the game's website. The header image for the post previously listed other updates for the game, as well as its free DLC, as arriving later this year. However, both have now been tacked on to the latter part of the image, showing that they're scheduled to arrive in the first quarter of 2022, along with Cyberpunk 2077's free next-gen update.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
