Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Upcoming Nintendo Switch Games Connect Nintendo Switch to TV Free Nintendo Switch Games Cancel Nintendo Switch Online Best Nintendo Switch Games Charge Nintendo Switch Controller Nintendo Switch Accessories Nintendo Switch Controllers Nintendo Switch vs Switch Lite Home Gaming Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Detective Pikachu Returns review: childproofed mystery offers elementary fun By Giovanni Colantonio Close $50.00 Story builds well Clever use of creatures Lots of personality in cutscenes Lots of hand-holding Simplified deduction Inconsistent presentation Product provided by Nintendo.
It’s elementary! Childproofed deduction The delightful world of Pokémon After a dozen hours of cracking cases in Detective Pikachu Returns , there’s one mystery I still can’t solve: Who exactly is this game for? Let’s consider the evidence. At a glance, the Nintendo 3DS sequel seems like a treat for young Pokémon fans. It almost plays like an interactive cartoon with its brightly colored world and heaps of comedic charm. Simple deduction gameplay, combined with heavy hints and no real fail states, makes for a kid-friendly adventure. Though, like any good case, there’s a complication. It’s a text-heavy visual novel that almost seems like it’s courting older players looking for more substantial storytelling in the Pokémon universe. It’s a conundrum that could stump even the great Pikachu himself! Pokémon Presents August 2023: how to watch and what to expect Greninja wins vote for Pokémon of the Year; Pikachu falls out of Top 10 Pokémon Go celebrates Detective Pikachu with 10-day double XP event Like recent mainline Pokémon games , Detective Pikachu Returns struggles to find a way for the franchise’s wide-ranging fanbase to coexist. Childproofed investigation systems don’t leave much room for surprise in a string of heavily telegraphed cases. Thankfully, both kids and adults will find some common ground in a playful adventure that has a lot of fun bringing personality to the series’ various critters.
It’s elementary! Detective Pikachu Returns picks up immediately after its 2016 predecessor. It continues the adventures of young detective Tim Goodman and his caffeine-addicted Pikachu, whom he can mysteriously communicate with. After saving Ryme City , a metropolis where humans and Pokémon live in harmony, the crack duo continues to solve local cases while trying to figure out what happened to Tim’s missing father. What begins as a simple jewelry heist balloons into another grand conspiracy that’s as twisty as a Tangela’s vines.
It almost has the pace and cadence of an educational game.
The effectiveness of that central mystery will likely hinge on how old you are. It’s very clear that Detective Pikachu Returns aims to be an experience that even the youngest Pokémon fans can get through, which often comes at the expense of its sleuthing premise. Just about every turn is signposted a mile away. The first case, in which Tim and Pikachu investigate a jewel theft in a mansion, practically winks the answer to every puzzle an hour before Tim gets to piece it together himself in an inflexible, linear fashion.
It almost has the pace and cadence of an educational game.
 I’m largely spending my time bouncing back and forth between a few “screens” in each chapter hunting for leads, something akin to a 90’s Putt Putt game. Crime scene investigation boils down to simple point-and-click gameplay, while its handful of side-quests largely just have me tracking down a specific Pokémon in town based on an obvious clue. That slow, hand-holding pace is perfect for kids who need a lot of guidance, but it’s hard to imagine that 12 hours of dialogue reading will keep young ones engaged for too long. On the flip side, I imagine older players will be more down for a more interactive visual novel, though left wishing they could dial down all the nudges.
Nintendo Despite that, I still think fans of all ages will find entertainment here so long as they’re willing to accept Detective Pikachu Returns for what it is. After trudging through a slow opening, I was eventually able to give myself to the adventure by its standout third chapter (where the mystery really heats up and the developer Creatures starts to toy with some fun formula subversion). There’s even a little thematic thread to untangle as the narrative explores what it means for humans and critters to “peacefully coexist.” That’s an inherently one-sided conversation when one half of the conversation can’t say much other than their own name.
Childproofed deduction When it comes to actually solving cases, the biggest thing that’s changed since the original Detective Pikachu on Nintendo 3DS is the Switch’s lack of a second screen. Otherwise, it’s still a 3D narrative adventure where Pikachu and Tim wander around small locations, chat with both people and creatures (Pikachu translates all Pokémon chatter for Tim), and solve a series of mysteries using their gathered clues. Rather than adding too many new twists, deduction is even more elementary this time around.
Nintendo Each case is laid out on a flowchart that can be accessed by pressing the Y button. That screen lists out all open questions on an evidence board and automatically pins any relevant clues underneath them. Once players gather enough clues, they can use all their intel to make a deduction. That process is fairly simple, as players simply have to complete a lead by picking from a handful of answers. Most leads are pretty hard to get wrong, as they’re about as obvious as a $500 Who Wants to be a Millionaire? question. Even if players get it wrong, there’s no negative outcome; they just keep choosing until they pick the right one. It’s about as childproofed as it can get.
It’s a surprising downgrade from the first game, which asked players to use just a bit more brain power. Deductions were more like puzzles there; one asked players to fix a mural by dragging different Pokémon where they’re supposed to be in the painting based on context clues. There’s nothing like that here, which feels like a direct side-effect of dropping the original’s stylus-based tactile gameplay.
The more knowledge you have of the series’ vast number of monsters, the more fun it’ll be to try and guess who’s involved with a crime.
While that’s a shame, Detective Pikachu Returns does make up for it with more traditional 3D adventure hooks. The primary change is that Pikachu gets to split off from Tim in each chapter to team up with partner Pokémon with its own special power. In the first case, he rides on the back of a Growlithe that can pick up the scent of clues and track them. Luxray, on the other hand, can see through walls to scope out locked rooms or reveal hidden paths. The abilities aren’t particularly deep, but they do add some much-needed investigative variety (plus, it’s downright cute to see Pikachu riding another Pokémon).
While there are a few extra twists in stealth sections and button-mashing quick-time events, some of the best deduction is simply mental puzzle work. My favorite moments came whenever I’d have to figure out what kind of Pokémon could explain puzzling case developments. Is there a creature capable of cutting through a glass case in one clean slice? How might a Whimsicott factor into a crime? The more knowledge you have of the series’ vast number of monsters, the more fun it’ll be to try and guess who’s involved with a case (at least before the game makes that very obvious moments later).
The delightful world of Pokémon The monster guessing game at the heart of the story underscores why the sequel is still entertaining enough even if its watered-down gameplay disappoints. No matter what genre it’s translated into, the world of Pokémon continues to be an inviting delight. The team at Creatures understands that strength and works to make Detective Pikachu Return s one of the most personality-filled pieces of Pokémon media outside of its anime adaptations.
It’s the closest any Pokémon game has really come to matching the TV series’ energy.
Ryme City is filled with a wide array of critters who not only have their own role in the town, but their own comedic quirks. Early on, Tim and Pikachu meet a certain creature who’s overly protective of a rock. Since I’m seeing the scene from Tim’s perspective, I can’t understand what it’s saying, so I have to rely on Pikachu’s translations. Later, when exploring as Pikachu, I strike up a conversation with the Pokémon and discover that he speaks in an overly dramatic faux-Shakespearian tongue. It’s a hysterical reveal that made me eager to chat with every Pokémon I met.
Developer Creatures gets even more opportunities for playful moments with a wealth of fully animated cutscenes that play out like slapstick cartoons. Those moments especially give Pikachu a chance to show off his expressive side as he excitedly celebrates a “bolt of brilliance” or tries to scurry up the long neck of an Alolan Exeggutor. It’s the closest any Pokémon game has really come to matching the TV series’ energy.
Nintendo / The Pokemon Company Not everything is as charmingly produced. It largely still feels like I’m playing a Nintendo 3DS game from a visual standpoint. Though colorful, there’s not much detail to really bring the world to life. Humans have it worse off than Pokémon, though; stilted character designs and robotic voice-acting performances make it feel like one of those unsettling, computer-generated children’s videos at times ( “Telling lies?” / “No, papa!” ) As I lay out each piece of the puzzle here, I find myself staring back at that one unsolved question still pinned to my evidence board: Who is this really for? That’s a tough nut to crack.
Detective Pikachu Returns at times feels like a creative riff on the Phoenix Wright series that lets long-time players see a new side of their favorite creatures. In the same breath, it can also feel like an educational game that isn’t concerned with putting in a lot of effort for little kids who couldn’t care less about quality. I can even tie a red string between that and Pokémon Scarlet and Violet , another recent release with the same tension.
Hang on, I’m sensing a pattern here.
Detective Pikachu , Scarlet , Brilliant Diamond , Let’s Go … all titles that struggle to bring together a growing audience age gap. Could it be that recent Pokémon games are trying too hard to be everything for everyone rather than being their lovable selves? There’s no crime here; it’s just a simple case of identity crisis.
Detective Pikachu Returns was tested on a Nintendo Switch OLED in handheld mode and on a TCL 6-Series R635 when docked.
Editors' Recommendations Detective Pikachu Returns: release date, trailers, gameplay, and more Detective Pikachu Returns welcomes fans back to Ryme City this fall Nintendo Switch year in review tells you how much time you spent playing in 2019 Detective Pikachu Pokémon compared to their cartoon counterparts February 27 Pokémon Direct presentation may give us a glimpse of the Gen 8 game Game Reviews Nintendo Nintendo Switch Product Reviews Gaming Microsoft's latest console, the Xbox Series X, is a powerhouse, oftentimes matching or outperforming the PlayStation 5 in multiplatform releases. But how are the exclusives? The Xbox Series X had a thin lineup at launch, but over the years has amassed a more than impressive catalogue of titles.
We will only include Xbox One games if they've been optimized for Series X and S (like Gears 5). Also, we're ignoring PCs entirely. If you factor in PC releases, Microsoft hasn't had a console-exclusive game in years. While many exciting games are still to come, such as Fable and Hellblade 2, there are more than enough to keep you satisfied until then.
Gaming Lego sets bring joy to our and our kids' eyes. They can help build real problem solving skills by following instructions, encourage creativity by dismissing the instructions and making fun modifications, or be the tools to create something entirely on our own from the ground up. There are tons of Black Friday Lego deals, as you might've guessed, but few places due it as well as Walmart does. Between official Black Friday deals and associated clearance items, the retail giant now has over 80 sets on sale as part of its Walmart Black Friday deals. Go shop the sale now via the button below or read on to see our favorite picks.
Our favorite Walmart Black Friday Lego deal Web With so many Black Friday deals already under way, it can be tough to keep on top of everything. Walmart has dozens of different awesome deals so we've narrowed things down to the best Walmart Black Friday deals currently available. There's a little bit of everything here with discounts on TVs, headphones, laptops, coffee makers, and much more. The retailer is also having a massive Black Friday Lego sale. Whatever you're considering buying, keep reading while we take you through some great options.
Other retailers have started early too, so check out Amazon Black Friday deals and Best Buy Black Friday deals.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
