Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Forza Motorsport review: the long-awaited racing tune-up delivers By Tomas Franzese Close $70.00 Gorgeous visuals Refined racing Malleable difficulty Constant sense of progression Clinical presentation Reliant on long-term support If you’ve ever gotten work done on your car, you might be familiar with the weird feeling that comes with waiting for a tune-up to be finished. You don’t know how long it will take, and all you can do is hope that all of the proper adjustments are being made so it can last for the long haul, whether you’re going on a cross-country road trip or, like me, just hope to keep the car for several more years. That feeling has surrounded the Forza Motorsport series for six years.
Back on the road Reasons to drive A personalized tune-up A car meant to be modified While Forza Horizon has flourished , the mainline racing simulation Forza series has not seen a new entry since 2017.
After its announcement back in 2020 , a freshly rebooted Forza Motorsport is finally here. Like a car owner anxiously waiting for their baby to get out of the shop, players now get to see if that lengthy tune-up was worth it. It’s a critical moment as Developer Turn 10 Studios has clearly stated that it wants Forza Motorsport to be a platform to build on going forward, so it needed to get this revitalization right if it’s going to make it to the finish line.
Luckily, it does.
Forza Motorsport cements itself as one of the best-looking and most approachable racing simulators to date. It can sometimes feel too clinical, but the core driving is perfectly fine-tuned. It’s a tremendous first-party visual showpiece that demonstrates the power of the Xbox Series X and provides a consistent sense of progression to modify the experience. The work was worth it; Forza Motorsport seems well-equipped to handle the long live service journey ahead.
Back on the road If you’ve played any racing game in the Forza series before, you’ll be familiar with this game’s basic setup. It’s all about driving well in intense races so you can collect CP. That resource can be used to upgrade vehicles and buy new ones, which allows players to drive even better and get even more CP. It’s a tight growth cycle built around incremental improvements.
Forza Motorsport is a more focused simulator experience, so it functions and plays closer to a game like Gran Turismo 7 than Forza Horizon 5.
Performance mode makes this one of the rare console games that consistently runs at a 4K resolution and 60 frames per second.
Turn 10 Studios is at the peak of its game when it comes to the fundamentals: Driving around a track in Forza Motorsport feels fantastic and it’s as intuitive as ever to play on an Xbox controller. The weather impacts handling, and the controller’s vibrations while hitting certain terrains are distinct and responsive. The same car can even feel different to drive from race to race when I adjust the wheels, the amount of gas initially taken into a race, or various other tuning options.
Its 500-plus car library and 20 track lineup is smaller than what Forza Motorsport 7 had at release, but these initially lower numbers can be forgiven as Turn 10 is already committed to adding more over time. It helps that Forza Motorsport looks gorgeous across all its visual modes on Xbox Series X , too. Performance mode makes this one of the rare console games that consistently runs at a 4K resolution and 60 frames per second 9fps).
If you’re willing to sacrifice some of that resolution quality to make the lighting even better, Performance RT mode adds ray tracing to cars and still runs near 4K at 60 fps. This was the mode I ultimately settled on, and I’d sometimes even get too distracted looking at the impressive reflection on my car and mess up in a race. Quality mode is also there for those who want ray tracing to apply to the cars and tracks at 4K , although the 30 fps trade-off was a bit too great for me.
Xbox Game Studios At this point, I am convinced that it’s nearly impossible for any game to run a consistent 4K and 60 fps with full ray-tracing on current-gen consoles, as even this impressive technical showpiece for Xbox can’t do it. Still, Forza Motorsport remains one of the best-looking games of the current console generation, no matter which graphics setting, car, or track I picked.
Reasons to drive Forza Motorsport looks and plays great, but that only truly matters if the content is there to back it. What’s present is entertaining and engaging for a simulator, even if it’s not too fancy. When it comes to single-player modes, the main attraction is the Builders Cup career mode.
 Builders Cup is split into several different Tours, each of which is made up of five individual series centered around specific car types like Sedans.
After a brief intro clip introducing me to the featured car type, I’d then play through five races in that series. Before each race, I could do some practice laps and get a feel for the track. The ultimate goal is to place somewhere between first and third place in each race to get a meaty credit reward and experience to increase my player level. Those alone are entertaining enough goals for me as a fan of simulation racers, but I was glad that Forza Motorsport doesn’t only have progression at that high level.
Xbox Game Studios As I drove around a track in practice or during races, the game would keep track of the time it took me to get through certain, typically complicated, segments. Depending on my time, I’d be rewarded with a certain amount of experience tied to my car. This gave me a reason to race as well as I could throughout every segment and granted me a constant, satisfying feeling of progression at least once a minute while I was racing. For a genre that can get very monotonous, that’s a genius way to retain engagement.
Leveling up a car earns me CP currency, which is used to upgrade a vehicle between matches. I did just fine while choosing the parts that granted the biggest stat bonuses. Players who are interested in fine-tuning the specific parts of a car they’re using will adore the amount of options here and in the comprehensive car editor. Those aren’t the only things Forza Motorsport would let me adjust between races, though; it also gives the players enough tools to tailor the experience to keep things more approachable or challenging for them.
A personalized tune-up Is a race too easy or too hard? There are multiple things you can do to adjust that. At a basic level, you can just go into a race with a worse car or one that has not been upgraded, but Forza Motorsport allows players to adjust even more minutiae than that. Between every race, I could adjust the AI’s difficulty, the harshness of penalties, or the presence of features like Rewind.
The malleable difficulty makes Forza Motorsport the most approachable hardcore racing simulator out there.
I would get higher Credit payouts when I made things harder for myself, but earning slightly less currency wasn’t enough to prevent me from modifying these things whenever I felt I was doing poorly. Those willing to venture into the settings menu will also discover a variety of control handicaps for things like braking, steering, throttle, and shifting that can make things easier or more challenging. The malleable difficulty makes Forza Motorsport the most approachable hardcore racing simulator out there.
And it can sometimes feel good to have a little bit of help. I had to restart some tough races in Gran Turismo 7 multiple times because of a tiny mess-up that took me out of the running at the end of the last lap. Moments like that never happened to me in Forza Motorsport unless I was in multiplayer or had purposefully set the race’s parameters to a higher difficulty for more of a challenge.
Forza Motorsport also boasts a wide variety of accessibility options , like colorblind modes, screen narrators, subtitle and audio description customization, and gameplay assists for blind players. While die-hard fans might be the only ones spending hundreds of hours offline and online, finely tuning each part of their car, the game provides enough helpful tools that anyone picking it up can have a good time. I know I did.
A car meant to be modified Players who decide to embrace multiplayer have a couple of options. Featured races occur every 30 minutes and feature similar parameters to Builders Cup. Of course, assists from that mode, like the Rewind functionality, aren’t present here. There’s also Rivals, a Time Trial mode that lets me compete against the ghosts of other players for the lowest lap time on the game’s tracks.
Forza Motorsport overall lacks much of a distinct personality.
While my multiplayer experience prelaunch was limited, the races I participated in ran smoothly, with only one odd texture flashing glitch plaguing a single race. The few microtransactions currently present only speed along the process of earning Credits and obtaining cars. They aren’t tied to the CP that has the most drastic impact on gameplay. It seems like the only unfair advantage to look out for is would-be players who bought their way to a slightly higher-rated car than you; it’s always possible to outrace them, though.
Besides that, my Forza Motorsport experience has been bug-free so far. At times, though, it can feel too smooth. The game’s UI takes a sleek and minimalistic approach. Turn 10 lays out all of the game’s modes, Tours, and Series clearly, but Forza Motorsport overall lacks much of a distinct personality. Despite its unique progression methods, this started to make the game feel a tad too repetitive for me after tens of hours of gameplay.
Where Forza Horizon 5 and Gran Turismo 7 have pomp in their presentation, Forza Motorsport feels more concerned with getting me into the next race while keeping a slot open for any new content Turn 10 decides to add. And Forza Motorsport is putting a lot of faith and investment into this future. There’s always a risk to games that do that, and we’ve seen Xbox Game Studios make post-launch stumbles with games like Halo Infinite.
Xbox Game Studios That said, the inherent structure of Forza Motorsport at release gives me more faith, as I can already see single-player and multiplayer content mapped out for multiple weeks.
 However that situation plays out will be what truly makes or breaks the game for hardcore players. For those Xbox Series X owners who are more curious than committed and want to enjoy a couple of beautiful-looking races, Forza Motorsport wholly delivers.
While the wait for this installment left me as nervous, as I typically am when dropping off my car to get work done, that extra time for fine-tuning was worth it. In fact, Forza Motorsport carries and presents itself like a console launch title in many ways. It’s an impressive technical showcase that’s easy to pick up, play for a couple of matches, and get a sense of the Xbox Series X’s power, even if Forza Motorsport is three years late in actually meeting that criteria. Still, those looking for impressive Xbox Series X games to show off their console will finally have another first-party showpiece to leave front and center on their Xbox’s home page.
Forza Motorsport was reviewed on Xbox Series X.
Editors' Recommendations A field-of-view slider headlines Starfield’s latest update The best games on Xbox Game Pass for right now (September 2023) Best Xbox Game Pass deals: Upgrade to Game Pass Ultimate for cheap Nvidia DLSS support for Starfield teased alongside stability-improving update Starfield’s ending explained: What are Starborn and The Unity? Apple Game Reviews Microsoft Product Reviews Xbox Gaming After years in early access only on PC, Baldur's Gate 3 is finally here in its final state. This CRPG has the internet buzzing about just how long and varied the experience can be. What's even better is that it can be played in co-op, though with limited cross-platform features. Those looking at the game may notice that there is only ever mention of a PC and PlayStation 5 version, which obviously raises the question about Xbox consoles. Baldur's Gate 3 doesn't have any exclusivity deal with PlayStation, so why isn't it on Xbox, and will it ever be? Will Baldur's Gate 3 come to Xbox? https://twitter.com/Cromwelp/status/1685821620756021249?s=20 The latest update from Larian states that it will be able to release Baldur's Gate 3 on Series X and S sometime before the end of 2023, but with the S version not having split-screen coop.
Gaming The file sizes for Starfield finally appeared across some of the storefronts it's available on now that it's available to preload. As a result, we've learned just how massive the game is.
On Steam, Bethesda recommends that players have 125 GB of space for the game, but Microsoft's own launcher shows an even bigger PC install size of 139.84 GB for Starfield. That size is only slightly smaller on the console, with the Xbox Store showing me that the game will take up 117.07 GB on my Xbox Series X. It's now very understandable why Microsoft is launching a 1 TB version of the Xbox Series S around Starfield; still, the game will even take over a tenth of that system's memory if players aren't expanding it at all.
This 110+ GB file size across all platforms for Starfield demonstrates just how big Bethesda's upcoming sci-fi RPG will be. It also follows a recent trend of even single-player taking up gigantic chunks of your game system's memory. This year alone, we've seen Star Wars Jedi: Survivor take up over 130 GB of space on consoles, while Baldur's Gate 3 clocks in at 125.14 GB currently. As games get bigger with more detail, it's clear that our gaming platforms will be able to accommodate fewer and fewer games on their SSDs going forward.
At least you can play the game via Xbox Cloud Gaming if none of your platforms can accommodate that file size. Starfield will be released for PC and Xbox Series X/S on September 6. Those who pre-order the Premium Edition will get access on September 1, though.
Gaming Microsoft finally made the decision to move on from its monthly online-access subscription service Xbox Live Gold. On September 14, Xbox Live Gold will transform into Xbox Game Pass Core, with current Gold subscribers automatically gaining a Game Pass Core subscription.
An Xbox Live subscription tied to online play has existed in some form since Xbox Live launched in 2002, but Xbox Live Gold as we now know it truly came into form in July 2013 when Microsoft started the Games with Gold program that gave subscribers free games each month in addition to that online access. Although Microsoft rolled back some online restrictions in 2021, Games with Gold continues to this day. That will all end when Game Pass Core launches.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
