Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Features The Game Awards could use some new categories, so we made them ourselves By Tomas Franzese Close The Game Awards features 24 game-related categories — and even that doesn’t feel like enough every time nominees are announced.
 Indies and more experimental games are often overlooked as the current categories reward the biggest AAA action-focused titles. Geoff Keighley has stated that he constantly assesses which award categories should be present at The Game Awards, but the only major addition recently was Best Game Adaptation in 2022.
Best Puzzle Game Best Remake/Remaster Best Rhythm Game Best Horror Game Best DLC/Expansion There are entire genres and types of games that can feel ignored every year during The Game Awards.
This year, we decided to come up with a few new categories of our own, highlight some potential nominees that we think would be worth nominating for these categories if they were to have existed this year, and explain why each category deserves to be added to the Game Awards.
Best Puzzle Game Devolver Digital Potential Nominees The Talos Principle 2 Cocoon Viewfinder Chants of Sennaar Humanity Given how many puzzle games there are, I’m genuinely surprised that the closest The Game Awards’ categories get to acknowledging them is a mention of “combining combat with traversal and puzzle solving” in the Best Action-Adventure Game description. The absence of a Best Puzzle Game category at The Game Awards this year particularly stings because 2023 has been such a fantastic year for the genre. There are so many wonderful and satisfying puzzle game experiences from this year alone that are worthy of praise. While many of the ones we chose on our list appear in other categories this year, they are all also games that only appeared once or twice in very specific, more indie-friendly categories. A title like Chants of Sennaar would get the love it deserves in a category like Best Puzzle Game rather than Games for Impact.
Best Remake/Remaster Digital Eclipse Potential Nominees: Resident Evil 4 The Making of Karateka Dead Space Metroid Prime Remastered Star Ocean: Second Story R A remake of Resident Evil 4 is nominated for Game of the Year; that alone is already an indication that remakes and remasters deserve their own category, just like Best Adaptation. Plenty of standout recreations of classic games launch every year, and sometimes the work needed to create a fantastic remake or remaster isn’t really applicable in other categories. This year, that’s demonstrated the clearest with Digital Eclipse’s The Making of Karateka.
 Its playable documentary setup allows players to experience the process of game development iteration themselves, offering more insight into a highly influential game. Unfortunately, The Game Awards’ categories just aren’t structured to have a home for a game like this. A Best Remake/Remaster category could change that.
Best Rhythm Game Square Enix Potential Nominees: Hi-Fi Rush Theatrhythm Final Bar Line Melatonin Rytmos Rhythm Sprout At present, music games don’t really have much space to shine at The Game Awards — and that should change. Rhythm games are entertaining experiences that can test player awareness and response times as much as a fire-person shooter does. Plus, the best ones have amazing soundtracks. Of the five we listed, this is definitely the most niche and probably the least likely to happen, especially when there are already two audio-focused categories at The Game Awards. Regardless, 2023’s awesome rhythm game lineup (led by the excellent Hi-Fi Rush ) still demonstrated that most game genres are deserving of more recognition than they currently get at The Game Awards, which tends to elevate action-focused AAA titles.
Best Horror Game EA Potential Nominees: Alan Wake 2 Resident Evil 4 Dead Space Dredge Paranormasight: The Seven Mysteries of Honjo Yet another dedicated genre that could use a dedicated category is Horror. Admittedly, this year was a fantastic one for horror, so games already plentifully represented in the nominations like Alan Wake 2 , Resident Evil 4 , Dead Space , and Dredge likely would’ve populated this list. However, plenty of other games could occupy that final slot, from Amnesia: The Bunker to Paranormasight: The Seven Mysteries of Honjo.
 As was the case with the puzzle genre, horror is also a place where indie games tend to shine. Viral horror indies like Five Nights at Freddy’s or My Friendly Neighborhood typically don’t have any sort of place at The Game Awards, a dedicated horror category could give it one, especially in years where there aren’t as many AAA horror games.
Best DLC/Expansion Motion Twin Potential Nominees: Cyberpunk 2077: Phantom Liberty Xenoblade Chronicles 3: Future Redeemed Horizon Forbidden West: Burning Shores Cities Sleeper Episode: Purge Dead Cells: Return to Castlevania Best Ongoing Game and Best Community Support are meant to be the awards covering any potential DLC release throughout the year. That said, there are also awards that almost always go to the same popular live service games that frequently update. By being a bit more specific with a Best DLC award, The Game Awards could create a space for amazing DLC like Dead Cells: Return to Castlevania and Xenoblade Chronicles 3: Future Redeemed that aren’t able to break through to other categories like Cyberpunk 2077: Phantom Liberty did. It might seem to be redundant to have three awards dedicated to post-launch support, but something like Best DLC would feel a lot clearer in terms of what can qualify and give smaller DLCs that can’t compete with the likes of Fortnite or Final Fantasy XIV a fighting chance.
Features Gaming Nintendo’s Super Mario series is so monumental to the medium of video games that you might even think of the mustachioed plumber when you hear “video games” mentioned at all. From his earliest days when he battled Donkey Kong as “Jumpman.” to his latest adventures on the Nintendo Switch, to his latest movie appearance in The Super Mario Bros. Movie, Mario has consistently been one of the greatest characters in video games. He’s such an iconic character that countless video games have had him as the star, and here we have ranked them.
For our list, we had two main criteria. First, the games have to be platformers -- either 2D or 3D. This eliminates Mario sports games, the Mario Kart series, role-playing games, and all the Mario Parties. Secondly, the games have to have Mario himself as the lead character. This eliminated Super Mario Land 3 and Super Mario World 2: Yoshi’s Island. In the end, we were left with 22 games. None of them are bad, but we did have to name a loser. We also chose to omit The Lost Levels and instead considered Super Mario Bros. 2 as the definitive second game in the series.
Gaming Rocksteady made a name for itself as one of the first teams to make a universally acclaimed superhero game with Batman: Arkham Asylum. It followed that success with two sequels, the even more beloved Batman: Arkham City and the divisive, though still fantastic Batman: Arkham Knight. Fans were left waiting to hear what this studio would tackle next. Most assumed it would be another DC property, since it is owned by Warner Bros. Games, and those suspicions turned out to be right on the money, though with a property not many would have predicted.
Suicide Squad: Kill the Justice League was given a formal announcement as the newest project from Rocksteady at the DC FanDome event in 2020. At the time, outside of the graphic novels, of course, we only had the one flop of a film based on this antihero group, so many fans were hesitant to see Rocksteady tackle this property. Now that we've gotten a few trailers and footage of gameplay, however, it has become clear that Rocksteady hasn't lost its touch. We took on this suicide mission for you and made off with all the details you need to know about Suicide Squad: Kill the Justice League.
Release date Gaming Microsoft's latest console, the Xbox Series X, is a powerhouse, oftentimes matching or outperforming the PlayStation 5 in multiplatform releases. But how are the exclusives? The Xbox Series X had a thin lineup at launch, but over the years has amassed a more than impressive catalogue of titles.
We will only include Xbox One games if they've been optimized for Series X and S (like Gears 5). Also, we're ignoring PCs entirely. If you factor in PC releases, Microsoft hasn't had a console-exclusive game in years. While many exciting games are still to come, such as Fable and Hellblade 2, there are more than enough to keep you satisfied until then.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
