Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Ghostrunner 2 review: ultra-stylish sequel sometimes overstays its welcome By Tomas Franzese Close $40.00 Intriguing story Refined platforming Slick combat Smart roguelike mode Motorcycle is messy Bloated level length Performance dips Ghostrunner.
Celeste.
 Super Meat Boy.
Neon White.
 All of these games have one thing in common: They make players feel like total badasses.
Slick action Less slick scope Going rogue All of these titles are about pushing through increasingly difficult challenges, racking up dozens of deaths, easily respawning, and getting right back to it. You’re often down, but never out.
Ghostrunner 2 is no different. Its titular character is a wildly powerful ninja capable of slicing up an entire room in seconds, but they also die in one hit. The key to clearing stages flawlessly is patience. Taking on rooms of enemies repeatedly to figure out the puzzle of how to take the optimal path to kill every enemy without getting hit is as enthralling as ever. The frustration of dying when there’s only one enemy left would quickly become a feeling of bliss when I’d get through flawlessly on the next attempt. Simply put, Ghostrunner 2 contains some of the year’s most exhilarating moments.
PlayStation VR2 adds even more games to its launch lineup Control 2 is in development and it’s coming to PC and current-gen consoles Spider-Man 2 is coming in 2023 — and it’s bringing Venom Unfortunately, the game faces off against a worthy foe: sequel bloat. The new installment goes bigger, and that isn’t always for the best. While individual rooms are a blast to clear, longer levels drag out the original’s lightning-quick joy. Its biggest addition, a new motorcycle, only takes the sequel further away from what made its predecessor so thrilling. Although Ghostrunner 2 is a consistently rewarding and enjoyable action game, its more likely to be remembered for its condensed roguelike side mode than its messy campaign.
Slick action The original Ghostrunner ends with its titular cybernetic warrior and a faction called The Climbers having freed the dystopian tower and humanity’s last bastion, Dharma, from its strict rulers.
Ghostrunner 2 demonstrates that everything doesn’t immediately get better once someone evil is deposed from a position of power. The situation in Dharma hasn’t improved much between the two games as the remaining factions vie for control. And things get even worse when older Ghostrunners that nobody knew existed reemerge and threaten to wipe out what’s left of humanity.
505 Games This is enough to force the Ghostrunner, who now goes by the name Jack, to head back out into Dharma and even the area outside of the tower to stop this new threat. Although Ghostrunner 2 emphasizes gameplay over story, it delivers nuanced sci-fi takes on identity, self-worth, and the forces that put and keep people in positions of power.
Most of Ghostrunner 2’s levels are linear and string together platforming and combat challenges. By default, Jack is already a skilled combatant who can easily slice any enemy up with his sword and kill or disable them from afar with a shuriken. He’s also quite nimble as he can dash on the ground or in the air, wall jump, rail grind, and slide around any part of Dharma.
Ghostrunner 2 is at its best when stringing all these abilities together, like wall-running to dodge an enemy’s attack before jumping back down and slashing them to pieces.
The scenarios get more thrilling and complex throughout the adventure … What pumps up Ghostrunner 2 ‘s stakes is how frail Jack still is. While Jack can block — and this skill can be upgraded to send bullets back where they came from — he also dies in one hit. Because of this, Ghostrunner 2 becomes a ballet of aggressively and defensively dealing with intense situations. Respawning is near-instantaneous and typically didn’t set me too far back, which encouraged me to keep going back and refining my skills until I got that perfect run through a room.
The scenarios get more thrilling and complex throughout the adventure as new enemies, abilities, and ways of moving trickle out. While the first stage revolves around simple gang warfare in the lower levels of Dharma, by the end I was gliding with a wingsuit through the upper levels of the building, adeptly dodging deadly shots from any mechs or enemies that stood in my way. In those moments, Ghostrunner 2 felt like one of the year’s best action games as I mastered its mechanics.
Less slick scope For the first half of the adventure, I barely had a complaint as I zipped through satisfying action sequences. As the adventure wore on, though, Ghostrunner 2 proved that too much of a good thing can become exhausting. About halfway through the game, the evil Ghostrunners that Jack is fighting escape Dharma. Jack finds a motorcycle and pursues them, riding it down the side of Dharma before exploring the wasteland around the city.
While the initial motorcycle chase feels slick and in line with the cool factor that Ghostrunner 2 so clearly wants to maintain, those segments fall apart fast. Motorcycle riding revolves around sloppy controls, and the limited field of view while riding it can make it difficult to discern what’s coming up at high speeds. The game’s physics always make it uncomfortable to switch from riding on the ground to riding on the wall, and if I collided with an object, but didn’t die, the motorcycle would often get stuck in odd ways that just made me wish I was traveling on foot.
505 Games I had hoped to overlook this flaw if it was an occasional novelty, but the game’s longest mission made me use it more than I ever wanted to. This level takes place outside of Dharma and tasks Jack with going to three smaller towers around Dharma as he tries to track down the location of the rogue Ghostrunners. Until this point, most Ghostrunner 2 levels took at most a half-hour to beat; this one took over 90 minutes and had more frame rate performance issues than any other segment of the game.
That’s because this level has a pseudo-open-world setup, as players can drive to and scale the towers in any order. Driving from point to point wasn’t that fun or engaging because of the aforementioned motorcycle control problems, which only worsened in an open-ended level where it’s easy to get off the beaten path and discover that what seemed to be a shortcut is just a place the bike or Jack aren’t able to go.
Its stages are too long to entice me back.
Ghostrunner 2 is at its best during moments of tight, intense design. This momentum-killing segment loses that aura of tight design and soured my experience as I became more hyper aware of later levels with similar pacing issues. It felt like exacerbated playtime between the intricately designed combat playgrounds. Part of the beauty of a game like Neon White or the original Ghostrunner is going back and trying to get the best time possible in a level. While I’d love to do that for specific sections of Ghostrunner 2 levels, its stages are too long to entice me back.
Going rogue Thankfully, the team behind Ghostrunner 2 almost seems like it was aware of its campaign woes. That’s because a new side mode directly counteracts this problem. Dubbed Roguerunner.exe, this side mode is a roguelike experience where combat and parkour challenges are strung together across one of four stages of difficulty. After completing a level, I could purchase some upgrades. Some were smaller abilities, like increasing my block and dash meter, while others, like the Superhot -inspired H.O.T., completely changed the game by making time move only when Jack does.
505 Games While I doubt I’ll replay the story mode of Ghostrunner 2 anytime soon to refine my completion times, I see myself booting up Roguerunner.exe in the future if I want a burst of its slick gameplay.
Although I enjoy the world of Ghostrunner and I’m thrilled to see it evolve, Ghostrunner 2 does encounter a sophomore slump. It makes the classic sequel mistake of getting too grand in scope for its own good and adding features that draw attention away from what made its predecessor special. Roguerunner.exe does strip the game back to its basics for a purer action experience, so if the series does continue, I hope that offers a road map for where the cyberpunk series can go next.
Ghostrunner 2 was reviewed on Xbox Series X.
Editors' Recommendations Marvel’s Spider-Man 2 finally gets its fall release date at Summer Game Fest Call of Duty: Warzone 2.0 Season 2 will finally fix its looting system An unannounced 1-2 Switch sequel struggles to find the fun No More Heroes and its sequel are coming to Steam next week Ghostrunner 2 is coming to PS5, Xbox One and PC, but skipping last-gen Game Reviews Product Reviews Gaming Horses are incredibly important in Red Dead Redemption 2. Not only does Arthur Morgan bond with his horses, but you can brush their manes and give them treats. They also serve a very practical purpose: They let you travel across RDR2's large, open world. You'll ride to mission objectives by horse, shoot enemies on horseback, and probably even run into some trees with your buddy. While we love all of our horse friends, some perform better than others in RDR2. Here's how to get the best horses in the game.
For more on Red Dead Redemption 2, check out our review, beginner's guide, fast travel guide, and cheat codes guide.
Unlocking stables Gaming While Rage 2 has fewer weapons than most open-world games nowadays, all of the guns are pretty dang sweet. On top of that, you can carry all of them at once, meaning you can switch from a rocket launcher to an assault rifle to a shotgun to a pistol that lights people on fire in a matter of seconds. Of course, you have to acquire the weapons before you have a menu of cool options at your disposal.
Most Rage 2 weapons require a bit of exploration to acquire and are locked behind mysterious Arks typically protected by foes of varying difficulties. Our Rage 2 weapons guide shows you how to unlock all weapons in the wasteland on PS4, Xbox One, and PC.
Gaming Red Dead Redemption 2 is a highly detailed open-world game that really leans into the idea of realism. From lifelike character animations to weather, and certain horse "parts," RDR2 wants you to feel like you're in America's heartland circa 1899. The realism extends to the story's methodical pacing and belief that you should spend a ton of time working your way through the world.
Still, RDR2 is a video game, and it's a virtual playground filled with fun and hilarious possibilities. That's where cheat codes come in to spice things up. Like the original RDR, there are a variety of cheat codes you can enter in to turn the realism notch down a tad and see what kind of trouble you can get into. From infinite ammo to unlimited drunkenness and virtual invulnerability, cheat codes can be fun to mess around with in RDR2.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
