Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Gaming Reviews Jusant review: chill climbing adventure is a short trip worth taking By Tomas Franzese Close $25.00 Involved climbing gameplay Relaxing vibes Relevant message Buggy when moving off path October 2023 was one of the busiest months I’ve ever had covering the video game industry in my professional career. I reviewed new Assassin’s Creed, Forza Motorsport, Hot Wheels, Ghostrunner, and League of Legends games while also keeping up to date with hidden gems and major AAA releases like Marvel’s Spider-Man 2 and Super Mario Bros. Wonder.
 While playing all those games back-to-back could get stressful and exhausting, Jusant provided a relaxing, meditative, and welcome break between those other titles during the extended review process.
A minimalistic aesthetic The climb Jusant is the latest game from Life is Strange and Tell Me Why developer Don’t Nod, but it’s quite subversive and different from the studio’s other games. Instead of being a dialogue- and choice-filled choose-your-own-adventure experience, it’s a minimalist game with no dialogue that’s all about climbing a tall, abandoned tower in a world where water is scarce.
Despite the drastic differences from Don’t Nod’s past work, Jusant is one of the studio’s best games since it left the Life is Strange series behind. Its trigger-based control scheme makes climbing and traversal fun, and the constant introduction of new ideas and twists across its five chapters overshadow any issues that emerges in a five-hour playthrough. When you have a moment to just sit back, relax, and play a game, Jusant makes for an excellent option.
A minimalistic aesthetic Jusant isn’t a very story-forward game. All I initially see in dialogue-free scenes is that this is a world mostly devoid of water. The main character, however, has a small creature made of water called Ballast and wants to climb to the top of a giant tower jutting out from the seafloor. This intentionally minimalistic approach is reflected in the game’s visual design, which is colorful, but full of smooth low-poly-style textures that add to the feeling that this is a tower and long-gone society that nature has started to smooth over.
Don't Nod The bulk of the narrative and the history of this tower is up for the player to piece together through the emotional and cinematic framing of certain scenes and the collectibles that they find. Those included scattered notes and letters left behind on the tower, as well as beautiful murals and seashells that the player can listen into to hear vague whispers of what the society of this tower used to sound like. The end of each chapter rewards players by showing them how flora and fauna are returning to the section of the tower that they just climbed.
While interpretations will vary from person to person, Jusant has something to say about humanity’s relationship to the Earth, how we treat the environment, and how society needs to give back just as much its takes from nature. With UNESCO saying that a global water crisis is imminent , I have a feeling that those who piece Jusant ’s story together will find that it will only get more relevant over time.
The climb Although Jusant’s themes are pretty heavy for a game I’m describing as relaxing, that description still fits because it’s on the player to engage with the narrative elements on a deeper level. If they don’t, their focus can be on the climbing.
Jusant eases players into its climbing mechanics, starting with simple third-person exploration and a jump button like what you’d see in most 3D games. That will only get someone so far on this massive tower; more involved climbing is required to get where the player and Ballast need to go.
The bulk of Jusant is spent climbing up rocks, cliff faces, and sometimes even the backs of insects and animals. Climbing controls in a very distinct way, as each trigger corresponds to the grip of a hand. That means that to climb up a wall, I had to point the control stick in the direction of a hold I wanted to grab onto and then press down on the trigger to do so.
It’s a slow experience, but that works in the adventure’s favor.
While most games leave climbing to the control stick or a specific button, using the triggers feels surprisingly natural. VR games like Synapse use this control scheme for climbing, and Jusant demonstrates how it can also work well for console games. I also had to keep track of my character’s stamina, taking brief respites to let the meter refill occasionally. It’s a slow experience, but that works in the adventure’s favor to make it relaxing.
Pressing the triggers to climb gives real-life tactile feedback, which makes it satisfying to climb upwards and helps put me in a relaxed trance while playing Jusant.
 It’s a good game to play while listening to a podcast or other music. However, there are specific points where listening to occasional spurts of Jusant’s audio adds to the experience. I always feel like I can take my time and climb this tower at my own pace. Fittingly, Jusant served as a respite to help me refill my own stamina between playing and reviewing many other games this month.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Don’t Nod spices up that core climbing gameplay loop with a variety of other systems and tools. Rope plays as a critical role in the game as a resource like stamina does. Pitons dot the walls and sides of this tower. As I climb, I’m always attached to one of these through my carabiner, and I can even place secondary pitons as I ascend. If I stray too far, I run out of rope, so searching and finding pitons to attach to essentially serves as the game’s checkpoint system. The rope has a variety of other uses, as it can be used to swing or wall run across big gaps.
Jusant frequently introduces new twists on those core climbing fundamentals, like sun-scorched spots where stamina drains faster or wind that massively boosts my jump distance. Even though the game is only around five hours long, about every half-hour recontextualizes the core climbing in some way.
Jusant never gets too difficult — there isn’t even much of a fail state besides falling to where your last piton is — but finding these systems spices up the climb.
Don't Nod Unfortunately, there were occasional moments where a missed jump, poorly placed piton, or overshot wall run got me to an area where the game didn’t expect me to be. These moments would sometimes lock part of the controls, make the camera jitter, or leave me with no natural way to escape. While there are typically multiple paths the player can take up through the level, these moments demonstrate how Don’t Nod still wants players to follow some very specific routes. That works against the free-climbing feel of the gameplay, but thankfully, it only reared its head due to a couple of climbing mistakes during my adventure.
While playing Jusant , I enjoyed the meditative aspects and simplistic satisfaction of climbing up a giant, colorful tower with minimal narrative interruptions.
Jusant is a game unlike anything its developer has done before, and it makes me hope that Don’t Nod continues to experiment with new styles of narrative and gameplay in the future. While, for other players, this game won’t be the respite between October’s big game releases that it was for me, it’s still a short experience to decompress with and be pleasantly surprised by over and over again.
Jusant was reviewed on Xbox Series X.
Editors' Recommendations Tencent Games announces mobile-optimized Don’t Starve: Newhome Game Reviews Product Reviews Gaming We've had a dancing game and musou spinoff, but now the Persona 5 cast has entered the realm of tactics with Persona 5 Tactica. The translation feels obvious when you think about it, but naturally, there have to be some changes to make it fit. For fans of the original JRPG, experimenting with the new combat system will take a little getting used to, especially relearning what skills are best. This game is quite friendly to those who are not as well-versed in the genre and allows you to try out your build and completely rework it if you need to. If you've invested your GP in some skills you're unhappy with, here's how you can respec in Persona 5 Tactica.
How to respec in Persona 5 Tactica Each character has their own skill tree that you can invest your GP into for buffs and skills. The way you invest early on can make the first few hours either much more difficult or a smoother experience. If you're feeling some buyer's remorse, respecing any character is not only easy, but can be done as many times as you like at no cost.
Gaming Nintendo’s Super Mario series is so monumental to the medium of video games that you might even think of the mustachioed plumber when you hear “video games” mentioned at all. From his earliest days when he battled Donkey Kong as “Jumpman.” to his latest adventures on the Nintendo Switch, to his latest movie appearance in The Super Mario Bros. Movie, Mario has consistently been one of the greatest characters in video games. He’s such an iconic character that countless video games have had him as the star, and here we have ranked them.
For our list, we had two main criteria. First, the games have to be platformers -- either 2D or 3D. This eliminates Mario sports games, the Mario Kart series, role-playing games, and all the Mario Parties. Secondly, the games have to have Mario himself as the lead character. This eliminated Super Mario Land 3 and Super Mario World 2: Yoshi’s Island. In the end, we were left with 22 games. None of them are bad, but we did have to name a loser. We also chose to omit The Lost Levels and instead considered Super Mario Bros. 2 as the definitive second game in the series.
Gaming Rocksteady made a name for itself as one of the first teams to make a universally acclaimed superhero game with Batman: Arkham Asylum. It followed that success with two sequels, the even more beloved Batman: Arkham City and the divisive, though still fantastic Batman: Arkham Knight. Fans were left waiting to hear what this studio would tackle next. Most assumed it would be another DC property, since it is owned by Warner Bros. Games, and those suspicions turned out to be right on the money, though with a property not many would have predicted.
Suicide Squad: Kill the Justice League was given a formal announcement as the newest project from Rocksteady at the DC FanDome event in 2020. At the time, outside of the graphic novels, of course, we only had the one flop of a film based on this antihero group, so many fans were hesitant to see Rocksteady tackle this property. Now that we've gotten a few trailers and footage of gameplay, however, it has become clear that Rocksteady hasn't lost its touch. We took on this suicide mission for you and made off with all the details you need to know about Suicide Squad: Kill the Justice League.
Release date Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
