Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Features I got Legion Glasses for gaming, but I’m actually using them for ASMR By Giovanni Colantonio Close It was Wednesday night and I was sick as a dog with some mysterious virus. Waves of nausea and brain fogging left me too weak to sit up. I was on my back for the night — and that gave me the perfect opportunity to test my fancy new AR glasses.
Gaming on Legion Glasses ASM-AR Just a few nights before, I’d gotten a pair of Lenovo’s Legion Glasses.
 I got the shades alongside my Legion Go and figured I’d use them to enjoy some gaming on a giant 1080p display right in front of my eyes. Since I couldn’t really get out of bed, I decided to strap them on and turn my ceiling into a screen. Maybe I’d do a few races in Forza Motorsport or a fight or two in Nickelodeon All-Stars Brawl 2 while laid up. I’d play neither of those. Instead, I was peacefully lying in the dark while a YouTuber whispered in my ears about malt liquor.
Forget gaming, movies, or web browsing. Devices like the Legion Glasses have one true killer app: ASMR.
PlayStation VR2 just got 2 fun shooters, but I’m still waiting to be wowed Nvidia is bringing ChatGPT-style AI to video games, and I’m already worried Get ready to play Steam games on your AR glasses Gaming on Legion Glasses Giovanni Colantonio / Digital Trends The Legion Glasses are Lenovo’s venture into the emerging AR glass market. It’s a space that’s already given us some strong devices like the XREAL Air 2 as manufacturers are innovating quickly. Lenovo’s stab at the tech is easy to grasp: It’s a pair of sunglasses with two micro-OLED displays behind the frames. You simply plug it into your device of choice via USB and they magically transform into an external monitor that sits on your face.
It’s an incredibly niche concept that has struggled to break into the mainstream wearable market for years, but devices like this indicate that tech companies are getting more serious about it. How serious? The Legion Glasses only cost $329, which is $70 less than the XREAL Air 2. That price cut does come at a slight cost, as the latter sports a 120Hz refresh rate while Lenovo’s glasses tap out at 60Hz.
The aspirational idea here is that glasses like this make it feel like you’ve got your own personal movie theater right at home, creating the illusion of an enormous screen. It’s no surprise that entertainment is the key selling point for this tech market, with gaming at the forefront especially. I’d put that idea to the test before my sudden illness, playing some games while lounging comfortably on the couch.
It didn’t take much effort to get set up. All I needed to do was strap on the glasses and plug them into my Legion Go.
 That’s it. The glasses themselves don’t require much fiddling either. There are no buttons to tweak focus like a VR headset, so all I really had to manage was speaker volume and brightness (both easily controlled via buttons on the temples). Granted, I quickly wished I did have more options to tweak the display. During my testing, the image always tended to be a little blurry for me, especially at the edges of the frames. If I wanted to spend the extra cash, I could get some prescription lenses slotted in, but that seems like a lot to spend for a tech gimmick.
Giovanni Colantonio / Digital Trends After adjusting to that mild fuzziness, I quickly found the potential appeal of a device like this. I kicked back on my couch in a comfortable position, my neck firmly resting on a pillow while I lay down, and loaded up Forza Motorsport via my Legion Go. The racing simulator has become my go-to chill-out game in the past month, so it was the perfect game to play in that position. It’s also one that doesn’t require much reading, which I found was hard to do considering how small a lot of video game UI tends to be these days. It’s not like I could get closer to the screen to see it better, after all.
Is that an experience I think everyone needs? Absolutely not. It is the definition of luxury only reserved for those who have hundreds to spend. As I laid back, I thought about how practical a device like this could be for someone recovering from an injury or dealing with limited mobility. There’s no neck or body strain required when using them, which could really be helpful in specific situations.
And I’d experience that specificity firsthand a few days into testing.
ASM-AR Giovanni Colantonio / Digital Trends Let’s flash forward to that night I was laid up in bed with an upset stomach. Unable to sleep, I grabbed my Legion Go and Glasses. I started wondering how I could use them in a moment to calm my brain without requiring too much attention. A game would be a little too intense for my brain fog, but ASMR would be just what the doctor ordered.
For the uninitiated, ASMR ( autonomous sensory meridian response ) refers to a pleasant tingling sensation that some people experience when hearing certain soft noises. That’s led to a bevy of content creators over the years who’ve created an entire genre of ASMR videos. These clips, which populated YouTube in the millions, feature sound artists whispering in binaural microphones and crafting relaxing soundscapes. I’ve watched videos like this for years to help with my anxiety and calm my brain down on stressful nights.
At first, I was only goofing around when I told myself I should load up an ASMR video on my Legion Glasses. It just seemed like a ridiculous thing to do with a $329 piece of tech. It turned out that wasn’t a joke. I loaded up some old standby ASMR videos (from airplane ambiance to alcohol pouring) and quickly found they were a perfect match for the device.
That’s largely thanks to its speakers, which sit above each ear. That feature just so happens to fit neatly with the binaural audio recording used in most ASMR videos. Having glasses on my face would also keep me from looking at my phone or doing something else while listening. All I could really do was close my eyes and let the sounds sink in, giving me a more immersive experience with something that’s helped me relax over the years.
The absurdity of this is not lost on me. When you go to read hands-on impressions of a hot new tech product, you’re probably not expecting to read about how great whispered YouTube videos play on it. That speaks to what’s ultimately intriguing about devices like the Legion Glasses, though. There are a lot of creative use cases for it that go far beyond the needless luxury of playing a game on glasses instead of your TV. I don’t expect I’ll use mine for long gaming sessions anytime soon, but I’ll absolutely strap them on the next time I’m stressed out (and trust me, that’ll happen a lot). That shouldn’t convince you to drop hundreds on a pair of your own, but it should help you imagine what kind of personal routines could be enhanced with the right tech toy.
Editors' Recommendations Lenovo’s Legion Glasses promise big-screen gaming wherever you are I’m going to use a guide for Baldur’s Gate 3, and so should you I’m already using Fall Guys’ excellent creative mode for evil PS Plus won’t beat Xbox Game Pass, and that’s why I’m sold Lenovo’s leaked Legion Play cloud gaming console is a flawed idea Features Lenovo Computing Lenovo unveiled its refreshed Legion gaming PC lineup at CES 2021 with updated laptops geared towards gaming enthusiasts. All these systems -- six in total -- come with the latest processors and graphics cards from AMD and Nvidia, including the latest discrete GeForce RTX 3000 series mobile GPUs and AMD's next-generation Ryzen mobile processors. This is only a small portion of some of the best new laptops at CES focused around gaming.
"When you combine all this new A.I. technology from Lenovo with the smarter, next-level RTX Tensor Cores 3.0 of Nvidia, exceptional performance is a given," Lenovo stated in a press release, while adding that the company's new 2021 laptops "are amongst the first to feature the next-gen AMD Ryzen Mobile Processors (coming soon) for remarkable performance." Gaming We've had a dancing game and musou spinoff, but now the Persona 5 cast has entered the realm of tactics with Persona 5 Tactica. The translation feels obvious when you think about it, but naturally, there have to be some changes to make it fit. For fans of the original JRPG, experimenting with the new combat system will take a little getting used to, especially relearning what skills are best. This game is quite friendly to those who are not as well-versed in the genre and allows you to try out your build and completely rework it if you need to. If you've invested your GP in some skills you're unhappy with, here's how you can respec in Persona 5 Tactica.
How to respec in Persona 5 Tactica Each character has their own skill tree that you can invest your GP into for buffs and skills. The way you invest early on can make the first few hours either much more difficult or a smoother experience. If you're feeling some buyer's remorse, respecing any character is not only easy, but can be done as many times as you like at no cost.
Gaming Nintendo’s Super Mario series is so monumental to the medium of video games that you might even think of the mustachioed plumber when you hear “video games” mentioned at all. From his earliest days when he battled Donkey Kong as “Jumpman.” to his latest adventures on the Nintendo Switch, to his latest movie appearance in The Super Mario Bros. Movie, Mario has consistently been one of the greatest characters in video games. He’s such an iconic character that countless video games have had him as the star, and here we have ranked them.
For our list, we had two main criteria. First, the games have to be platformers -- either 2D or 3D. This eliminates Mario sports games, the Mario Kart series, role-playing games, and all the Mario Parties. Secondly, the games have to have Mario himself as the lead character. This eliminated Super Mario Land 3 and Super Mario World 2: Yoshi’s Island. In the end, we were left with 22 games. None of them are bad, but we did have to name a loser. We also chose to omit The Lost Levels and instead considered Super Mario Bros. 2 as the definitive second game in the series.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
