Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Marvel’s Spider-Man 2 review: amazing becomes ultimate in standout superhero sequel By Giovanni Colantonio Close $70.00 Nuanced story Standout sidequests Excellent combat Traversal is even better PS5's most powerful game Plot can feel bloated Marvel’s Spider-Man 2 really makes you feel like Spider-Man. In terms of being very stressed-out, that is.
Video review Weight of the world Pow! Thwack! Great power I mean, really put yourself in Peter Parker or Miles Morales’ spandex for a moment. Sure, you’d get to turn New York City into your own personal jungle gym, but consider everything else you’d be juggling. For Peter, it means holding down a stable day job, paying the bills on a house you’ve inherited through tragedy, maintaining your relationship with Mary Jane Watson, and being there for a sick (and parasite-infested) friend. And if you’re Miles, you’re scrambling to help your community while keeping your grades up and dealing with the lasting trauma of losing your father. That’s not to mention that, in both cases, you’re also dealing with a gang of bloodthirsty hunters out to kill you. Still want to put on that super suit? How to change suits in Spider-Man 2 Where to find Aunt May’s grave in Spider-Man 2 How to solve molecular identification puzzles in Spider-Man 2 It’s a raw tension that developer Insomniac doesn’t shy away from in the spectacular Marvel’s Spider-Man 2.
 Though it delivers some of the most astonishing action to ever grace a video game, the superhero sequel almost also serves as a deconstruction of its own power fantasy. No matter how strong a hero is, there are some problems that can’t be punched away.
Marvel’s Spider-Man 2 delivers a personal story about two busybodies struggling to find balance in their lives, while all webbed up in larger-than-life comic book arcs. That’s a perfect match for Insomniac’s winning action-adventure formula, which is improved in almost every conceivable way here. Its expansive narrative and open-world checklists may feel overwhelming at times, but that effectively drives home its ultimate point: Great power isn’t a cure for great responsibility.
Video review Weight of the world Marvel’s Spider-Man 2 serves as a sequel to both the series’ first entry and its Miles Morales-focused spinoff.
 Now working together as a spider dream team, Parker and Morales watch over not just Manhattan, but a (geographically truncated) slice of Brooklyn and Queens too. You’d think that would make both of their jobs easier, but they become more overwhelmed than ever with the arrival of the ruthless Kraven the Hunter, who is rounding up villains around town. It’s a simple enough comic book story that soon mutates further when a parasitic hunk of black goo takes a liking to Peter.
At times, that sprawling story can feel bloated, especially coming off of Morales’ lean solo adventure. Miles and Peter (who players can instantly switch between at just about any time) don’t just come with their own character arcs, but the casts of their respective games too. Each story mission stacks more characters and villains into a sweeping story that wobbles like a Jenga tower early on. It feels like it’s in danger of repeating the flaws of Sam Raimi’s Spider-Man 3 at times — and not just because of a certain long-tongued menace.
Sony Interactive Entertainment Though that may sound like a typical case of sequel syndrome (and it perhaps is to an extent), it’s also an ingenious way to reflect its heroes’ mental space. Both Spider-Men are struggling to hold an entire city up on their shoulders; their responsibilities pull them in every direction like a Symbiote’s tendrils. As a player, I felt that too. Anytime I’d try to focus on the main story, I’d find myself sidetracked by a huge map full of side activities, all with their own engrossing stories to tell. It’s the best possible narrative to pair with the kind of open-world structure that tempts players with constant distractions; I truly become Spider-Man, burdens and all.
The narrative works best when I approach it less as a single comic arc and more as multiple interweaving runs leading up to one venomous crossover event. Miles’ missions particularly shine, telling a more personal story about a kid trying to do right by his community, though it’s the side missions that stay with me more than anything. One-shot stories, like one where Peter simply listens to an old man reflect on his life or another where Miles helps rebuild a museum paying tribute to Black music history, remind me why these characters are still so willing to break their backs to save their city. Every person is worth protecting.
Marvel’s Spider-Man 2 really is the ultimate superhero game.
Those personal stories help fill out some of the sequel’s more typical comic book plotlines. Kraven doesn’t leave much of an impression as a big bad; he’s more of a catalyst that can fill the game with new bad guys to beat up than he is a memorable villain. Peter’s Symbiote corruption doesn’t break new ground either, as a sizable chunk of the game is focused on a familiar power struggle. Both stories pay off in a big way, though, once the heavily advertised Venom eventually tears into the picture. That arrival ushers in an exhilarating, high-stakes finale that pushes each hero to their limits.
Taken as a whole, Marvel’s Spider-Man 2 really is the ultimate superhero game.
 That’s not because it’s filled with crowd-pleasing Easter eggs, but because it’s one of the few that dares to grapple with the nightmares of the job instead of just letting players live the dream.
Pow! Thwack! Those narrative ambitions aren’t exclusive to cutscenes; Insomniac bakes them into some of its new gameplay tweaks. That’s most effective in the sequel’s revamped combat system. Like the previous two installments, Spider-Man takes notes from the Batman Arkham playbook to deliver fast and fluid fighting that’s as satisfying as ever. The twist is that both Spider-Men can now execute superpowered moves that operate on a cooldown (not dissimilar to how Sony exclusives like God of War Ragnarok work).
It’s one of many extra layers that make a huge difference. I don’t just feel like a nimble acrobat punching my way through goons anymore. When I use Miles’ electrical powers to chain-shock four enemies or lift them into the air, it feels like I’ve graduated to being a larger-than-life Avenger. Those moves naturally slot into the pace of regular combat too, making it easy for me to flip between punches, a special skill, and a deadly finisher in an unbroken chain. In my most intense late-game fights, I almost get the same thrill I feel when playing a Musou.
 Sometimes I’m able to take down a batch of enemies so fast that a dialogue that’s supposed to play out during the fight doesn’t have time to wrap up. No technical limits can contain me.
Spider-Man 2 never forgets its playful side, striking a delicate balance between high-concept self-reflection and cartoon mischief.
It’s an incredible power fantasy — one that Insomniac self-reflexively deconstructs. The system takes a troubling turn when Peter gets his black suit and is granted a host of Symbiote-infused skills.
 Black tendrils burst out of his body, piercing everyone in the vicinity. Another turns him into a raging ball of goo that slams his victims into a wall. It’s an uncomfortable degree of violence, but I’m drawn to it; I can’t stop maniacally slamming my foes into concrete. Like Peter, I’m obsessed with my newfound strength.
I get the feeling that a lot of decisions in Spider-Man 2 were born out of thoughtful self-critique. It’s as if Insomniac heard fans’ concerns that Spider-Man’s hard-hitting combat would absolutely kill a simple street criminal and built a meta-interrogation on what limits a hero should have. That’s not just present in combat, but in some changes to its story too. Spider-Man is no longer a tool of the NYPD who helps them bust low-level drug dealers by setting up a citywide surveillance state — a decision that earned the first game some rightful blowback.
 In fact, Peter is now a firm believer in criminal rehabilitation for even his most ruthless rivals. Each of those changes is a mature step forward for a series that had taken its sometimes tone-deaf source material at face value.
Sony Interactive Entertainment That’s not to say that it’s all gloom and doom, though.
Spider-Man 2 never forgets its playful side, striking a delicate balance between high-concept self-reflection and cartoon mischief. For instance, players have access to an arsenal of new tools that provide some good old slapstick comedy. One tool grabs every enemy in the vicinity and yanks them into one another. An upgrade for it lets it suck in surrounding objects too, adding insult to injury when a crook gets smacked with a stray barrel. Stealth gets an upgrade too as both Spider-Men can create sticky web-lines that allow them to get in position above an enemy (no more waiting for an NPC to wander under a rafter so you can quietly take them out).
Insomniac doesn’t skimp on spectacle either. The adventure is loaded with creative supervillain fights that take everything to an awe-inspiring scale. An early battle against an enormous adversary ranks among the best video game openings of all time, as players bounce between both Peter and Miles in a citywide brawl. It’s mature and deliberate without ever sacrificing the pure fun of living in a comic book world.
Great power What allows all of this to work as well as it does is Insomniac’s powerhouse tech; there’s simply no other studio taking as much advantage of the PlayStation 5’s power. It feels like a culmination of everything Insomniac has toyed with since the console’s launch, as it even drops a nod to Ratchet & Clank: Rift Apart in a seamless portal-warping chase scene. Combat animations are detailed, performance runs without a hitch, and high-quality cutscenes allow actors like Nadji Jeter (Miles Morales) to bring some heart to a digital world.
While strong tech doesn’t inherently make a great game, Insomniac proves how much of a difference it can make. For instance, Spider-Man 2 ’s most jaw-dropping trick is that it features instantaneous fast travel — and I really mean instantaneous. When I select any spot on the map and select fast travel, I’m immediately swinging through the streets in a second flat. It’s an unbelievable accomplishment in an open-world game as densely detailed as this and one that takes a lot of the tedium out of late-game exploration.
It’s simply a joy to move in Spider-Man 2.
That’s especially helpful considering Spider-Man 2 ’s map is twice as big as its predecessors thanks to a newly explorable slice of Queens and Brooklyn (one that has a hilarious idea of where Coney Island is located). While those areas don’t change much about the game’s flows (there are just shorter buildings to zip past), they do offer some nice visual variety by peppering in parks and small slices of suburbia on the edges of town.
There are also plenty of good reasons to see it all , thanks to a new set of open-world activities. While some of those are standard fare for the genre, like base-clearing missions that feel interchangeable with those in Batman: Arkham City , Insomniac peppers in some varied surprises throughout the adventure. One set of objectives has me saving local bee populations by using a remote-controlled drone to scare off pesky birds or biking through Central Park to mark insect habitats. Those friendly neighborhood activities are far more fun than breaking up yet another local crime (those are still present, though players can largely ignore them if they choose and still max out their level and skills with ease).
Sony Interactive Entertainment Perhaps most impressive of all is that Insomniac found a way to make gaming’s best traversal system even better here. Swinging was an undeniable highlight of both previous games, and that’s been given a huge boost with the addition of web wings. With the press of a button, both Miles and Peter can open up a pair of wings and glide. The world is constructed with that extra twist in mind, as New York is full of wind tunnel paths that let the heroes zip across town at high speeds. It’s simply a joy to move in Spider-Man 2.
All of this joyful exploration may sound like it’s in direct contradiction to the grand deconstruction of its dark story, but it highlights why Insomniac is such a deftly skilled developer.
Marvel’s Spider-Man 2 throws a lot of ideas up in the air, but juggles them with ease in a grander sequel that’s purposefully overwhelming when it needs to be while delivering a deceptively sleek adventure (even a 100% completion will take no more than 35 hours). It can make me feel the enormous weight of Spider-Man’s burden while still getting me excited about unlocking tons of customizable super suits that let me live out my own superhero fantasy.
What’s the secret? Aunt May holds that answer. In a flashback, May sits an overwhelmed Peter down for a heart-to-heart conversation. She offers him a one-word secret to managing his growing stack of responsibilities: balance. It’s the greatest superpower of all, something that both Miles and Peter struggle to master. Those who can, though, are capable of accomplishing truly extraordinary feats — and Marvel’s Spider-Man 2 is exactly that.
Marvel’s Spider-Man 2 was reviewed on a PlayStation 5 hooked up to a TCL 6-Series R635.
Editors' Recommendations What is the code to the Lizard’s lab in Spider-Man 2? Spider-Man 2 Just Let Go trophy guide: Where to find the science trophy All suits in Spider-Man 2 and how to get them All Marko’s Memories locations in Spider-Man 2 All Mysterium locations in Spider-Man 2 Comic Book Movies Game Reviews Marvel Product Reviews Gaming Get me pictures of Spider-Man! Well, actually, in Spider-Man 2 you never actually have to snap any pics of either Spider-Man. As established in the first game, Peter has already moved on from his job as a photographer for the Bugle and is focused completely on science (when not saving the day, of course). When that doesn't work out well enough to pay the bills, he falls back on his old freelance photography gig to help make ends meet by going to key spots around the map to snap some shots to sell. These are among the most numerous icons you will see pop up on your map as you play, and while each one only rewards two City Tokens for completing them, they take a few seconds at most to get the perfect shot. Let's take a tour of the city to find all the photo-op locations in Spider-Man 2.
All photo-op locations Photo-ops will populate the map in batches as you go through the game, but ultimately, there will be 23 unique spots you will need to stop and get a picture of to complete the entire quest. To snap the perfect picture, swipe down on the touchpad to open up your camera app when near the target area and look for whatever subject you need to capture. This will be obvious in nearly all situations, such as the above mascots, or a piece of art, or even entire buildings. The camera itself will help you as well. If you're in range, the text will let you know if the subject is in view, obscured, or in focus. Once the ring is green, that shot will count and you can hit R1 to take the shot. After each one, you get a little bit of context and dialogue about whatever it is you are submitting.
Gaming After the events of Miles Morales, the Prowler has officially retired by the time Marvel's Spider-Man 2 begins. While he can't help Miles out in action anymore, his uncle still has some secrets in store for his super-powered nephew. Before he was forced to hang up his hood, Prowler had a series of resource caches stashed all over the city. With him no longer able to make use of them, he tells you how to find and open them to get the goodies inside. This is one of the best ways to get your hands on Rare Tech parts needed for upgrades in the game. Let's track down all these hidden Prowler Stashes in Spider-Man 2.
All Prowler Stash locations There are nine total Prowler Stashes in Spider-Man 2, with some locked until you get to certain points in the story to keep you from looting them all at once. Once you get close, you will see a section of a building, almost always the rooftop, glowing in an outline of the zone where the stash is. Enter and solve the little puzzle to find and grab the rewards. Here is where you can find each stash: Gaming Is there any doubt that Peter Parker and Miles Morales are heroes by the time Spider-Man 2 takes place? As goofy as it sounds, you will still need to prove your hero status by earning what are known as Hero Tokens. Just like City Tokens, these are more conceptual objects than actual tokens, but are still required for some of the higher-level upgrades and unlocks for your tools in the game. Still, not every heroic action is deemed worthy of getting you Hero Tokens. If you want to know all the activities to collect as many as you can in Spider-Man 2, we've narrowed down your search.
How to get Hero Tokens There are plenty of options for you to get Hero Tokens, but the most efficient are the Mysteriums. Also known as Mysterium dev diaries, these unlock after you meet Mysterio in the story and then they start to populate the map. There are only 10 of these, and they each consist of time trials that rank you based on time. Earning a gold will get you two Hero Tokens, while silver and bronze award you just one. So long as you're a skilled player and can get a gold time in one or two attempts, this is easily the fastest method to get these tokens. For one, you obviously have to go fast here, but when you get a gold, you also get the rewards for the two ranks below, so each Mysterium is really worth four tokens if you can master it.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
