Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Mortal Kombat 1 review: a morbidly fun fighter with one fatal flaw By Tomas Franzese Close $70.00 Refined combat Creative Kameo system Gorgeous visuals Solid online play Story lacks emotional depth Invasions mode is a letdown Light on variety During Mortal Kombat 1’s superhero movie-like story campaign, one standout action scene finds me inside a dingy dungeon full of Shang Tsung’s disgusting experiments. Kenshi, Baraka, Johnny Cage, and Kung Lao fight against a horde of monsters within the grimy lab, and an intense fight ensues. Instead of cutting to a traditional 1v1 fight, it all initially played out in an impressive cutscene choreographed and “filmed” like it had all happened within one take. The scene may not have much in terms of emotional depth or unique gameplay interaction, but it’s a thoroughly entertaining fight that I’ve gone back and rewatched multiple times since first seeing it.
Spectacle over story Staying King of the Hill A disastrous invasion That small moment represents my Mortal Kombat 1 experience in a bloody nutshell. It’s a morbidly pleasurable fighting game that is lacking when it comes to depth and variety. While its story and poor Invasions mode are a letdown, Mortal Kombat 1 still boasts refined core combat that any fan of the genre should have no problem losing dozens of hours to.
Spectacle over story Mortal Kombat 1 is a soft reboot of the series, taking place in a “New Era” created by Liu Kang in the wake of Mortal Kombat 11: Aftermath’s events. It features reinterpreted versions of classic Mortal Kombat characters and even reintroduces some fighters we haven’t been playable since before the last reboot, like Ashrah, Havik, Li Mei, and Reiko. The result is a healthy launch roster full of variety that should appeal to Mortal Kombat fans from any era of the series.
WB Games As for the story itself, it follows Liu Kang as he recruits characters like Raiden and Kung Lao into the Shaolin as evil characters like Shang Tsung, Shao Khan, and Quan Chi whom he tried to make miserable in his new era. They’ve been manipulated by a mysterious outside force, taking them back to their evil, magical ways. As I previously detailed in my first impressions , Mortal Kombat 1’s campaign is entertaining, although it doesn’t necessarily reach the narrative highs that its premise could enable.
The idea that Liu Kang has created this new world but isolated himself from old friends in the process is an intriguing idea full of dramatic potential, but the game doesn’t explore it to its fullest. Characters like Johnny Cage, Kenshi, Reptile, and Ashrah are all given engaging, emotional backstories and character setups too. Sadly, the story campaign doesn’t resolve these character arcs in satisfying ways as its focus shifts to bigger and bolder action set pieces in the later chapters.
Still, the action in and outside of cutscenes is captivating.
Mortal Kombat 1’s characters are colorful and full of personality, and the story’s constant twists and turns make it an enjoyable watch the whole way through. It’s also a great place to get acquainted with many of the game’s characters, systems, and controls, so it’s still a mode that I recommend everyone who picks up Mortal Kombat 1 should play despite its issues.
Staying King of the Hill While other elements of the package are far from perfect, NetherRealm Studios is at the top of its game when it comes to pure gameplay.
I was worried that it might feel too slow in the wake of Street Fighter 6, but that was not the case. It plays slower than many of its current genre peers, but that makes that game more exciting and methodical. Every action, block, or reaction a player makes can have a drastic impact on the fights.
The Kameo system adds much more than it takes away.
That approach pairs well with the Mortal Kombat series’ brutal nature and iconic mechanics like Fatal Blow, Brutalities, and Fatalities. In terms of changes from previous games, there is now just one special meter that players can use to enhance certain special moves. More importantly, there’s a brand new “Kameo” fighter system. While Mortal Kombat 1 features a roster of 23 playable characters, players must also choose one of 15 Kameo fighters to join them in the battle before every fight. Many of these are characters not present in the base roster, and some haven’t been playable in a while, like Motaro. In practice, these Kameo fighters essentially give players access to assist moves they’d have in team-based fighters like Marvel vs. Capcom without the ability to switch to the characters.
Every Kameo fighter has unique abilities, with some being more aggressive and others being more useful in defense or with proper positioning. The most helpful thing Kameo fighters can do is break combos when players have a full meter. This proved an extremely useful way to counteract some of the game’s most devastating single-player fights and most frustrating combos in multiplayer. The only downside is the lack of personality it brings, as Kameos now play a part in every fighter’s Fatal Blow and make it so there are no longer any prematch conversations between fighters outside of the character select menu. Still, the Kameo system adds much more than it takes away, and I hope it’s a system that the Mortal Kombat series keeps around for some time.
WB Games It helps that the game looks fantastic while doing all of this.
Mortal Kombat 1 is one of the most impressive-looking games to release this console generation, expertly catching every stunning particle effect or grisly wound in intricate detail. That should make Mortal Kombat 1 as fun to watch as it is to play, which is crucial for a competitive title like this.
While Injustice 2 is still my favorite game from NetherRealm, this is the best a Mortal Kombat game has ever felt to play. And thanks to solid, stable online play, it makes Mortal Kombat 1 an easy recommendation for fighting game fans looking for the next title to sink hours into.
A disastrous invasion Where Mortal Kombat 1 falters compared to games like Street Fighter 6 or Super Smash Bros. Ultimate is in its mode variety and quality. The core combat is outstanding, but some modes around them could be better. Ranked, casual, and King of the Hill are all solid multiplayer modes, but they aren’t new or innovative in significant ways for the franchise. The game also doesn’t feature cross-play at launch, which is sorely missed.
Then there’s the matter of Mortal Kombat 1’s single-player RPG mode: Invasions. I played all the way through the first season until the final fight with Scorpion and walked away disappointed. It’s a dull misfire in an otherwise entertaining fighting package.
Invasions feels like a grind only to help players level up characters and unlock new costumes and currency … Invasion lies somewhere between Street Fighter 6’s World Tour and Super Smash Bros. Ultimate’s World of Light campaign. It’s an RPG experience where each fighter has stats and elemental types that are strong against and weak against others and can equip items to modify those things. Players move from fight to fight in locations from the Mortal Kombat 1 campaign as they would in World of Light, though, with each encounter featuring a unique version of one of Mortal Kombat 1 ‘s fighters. These fights can have special gimmicks, too, like lightning that can zap players mid-combo.
It intrigued me when I first heard about it, but it lacks the polish that made those aforementioned modes from other games special. While those stat and elemental systems are present, I never felt that the difficulty curve on these was noticeable enough to impact fights. The only things that would give me a tough time were the occasional match-specific gimmicks like one that would darken the entire screen or add an area boss with uninterruptible attacks (a gimmick the mode overuses).
This lack of challenge outside of a few key moments means that Invasions feels like a grind only to help players level up characters and unlock new costumes and currency to spend in the game’s stores (and potentially spend money on microtransactions in the process). That puts more pressure on individual encounters to be memorable, but they unfortunately drop the ball. While each character you fight has a unique name and outfit — like a tattooed-up Liu Kang being called God of War — I quickly saw most of the match-specific gimmicks Mortal Kombat 1 had to offer. They, nor the AI, seemed to have that much of a game-changing impact from encounter to encounter with the same fighter.
Warner Bros. / WB Games I would fight the same five or so characters in each of the “Mesa” areas that made up this season. That made fights blend together despite how enjoyable Mortal Kombat 1′ s core fighting mechanics are. On top of that, this mode requires an online connection to play, will change permanently every season, lacks a map for each area, and requires players to exit the mode to change into the cosmetics you unlock within it. That ruins its long-term appeal and the flow of playing through it.
Mortal Kombat 1 successfully soft-reboots the series with refined gameplay that should engage any fighting game fans for hours. The shortcomings of Invasion and its core story just mean that it isn’t the best choice for those who like to play and explore the single-player modes of fighting games by themselves. For those that care the most about action-packed stories and tight gameplay in their fighters, though, nothing else in the genre matches the feeling of watching fighters get shredded to bits by a satisfyingly gruesome fatality.
Mortal Kombat 1 was tested on Xbox Series X.
Editors' Recommendations How to unlock all Kameo Fighters in Mortal Kombat 1 Mortal Kombat 1: release date, trailers, gameplay, and more Mortal Kombat 1 gameplay shows off absolutely disgusting finishers Mortal Kombat 1 takes the series back to the start this September Mortal Kombat 12: rumors, news, release date speculation, and more Apple Game Reviews Product Reviews Gaming While Mortal Kombat and Injustice developer NetherRealm Studios has been secretive about what its next game is, Warner Bros. Discovery CEO David Zaslav spoiled the surprise during the company's latest earnings call: it's Mortal Kombat 12, and it's coming out this year.
Speaking about WB Games' upcoming lineup, Zaslav stated that the "highly anticipated Mortal Kombat 12" is in the works alongside Suicide Squad: Kill the Justice League, which was featured in a State of Play showcase that took place around the same time. Zaslav says Mortal Kombat 12 is "set for release this year" and that Warner Bros. Discovery has "ambitious launch projections" for this title.
Digital Trends contacted WB Games to confirm the statement and will update this article when we hear back.
Obviously, as this is the first time the game has been mentioned, we don't know any specific details about the story, gameplay, or characters that will be featured in the new entry. Still, it's quite an exciting confirmation for fighting game fans as NetherRealm Studios hasn't released a new game since 2019's Mortal Kombat 11, which itself has not received any new DLC since 2021. The Chicago-based developer had been flip-flopping between making Mortal Kombat and Injustice games throughout the 2010s, but its focus appears to be wholly on Mortal Kombat now.
If Mortal Kombat 12 is truly coming out this year, we shouldn't have to wait too much longer for an official reveal. Still, this is an unexpected way for such a game to be revealed. Mortal Kombat 12 is in development and intended for release sometime in 2023.
Gaming A new entry in the Mortal Kombat series is coming to mobile. Unlike past mobile titles from the franchise, this one isn't a watered-down fighting game, but a roleplaying game featuring everyone's favorite ninjas, cyborgs, and EarthRealm kombatants.
The new RPG is titled, Mortal Kombat: Onslaught. In an interview with Buisnesswire, Ed Boon, Chief Creative Officer of NetherRealm Studios, describes the game as a "strategic team-based collection RPG with fast-paced, group melee combat." He also speaks on how the game aims to be open enough for old and new series fans to jump into.
Gaming Xbox Game Pass is adding a few more games before 2021 ends. The December batch is headlined by Mortal Kombat 11, Among Us, and indie hit Firewatch. However, the service is also losing three Yakuza games at the end of the year.
Microsoft's subscription service gives players access to a library of downloadable games for a flat monthly fee. It'll add 11 new games between December 15 and 16.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
