Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Upcoming Nintendo Switch Games Connect Nintendo Switch to TV Free Nintendo Switch Games Cancel Nintendo Switch Online Best Nintendo Switch Games Charge Nintendo Switch Controller Nintendo Switch Accessories Nintendo Switch Controllers Nintendo Switch vs Switch Lite Home Gaming Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Pokémon Scarlet and Violet: The Teal Mask review: back to square zero By Giovanni Colantonio Close $35.00 Endearing story Lots of returning monsters Catching is as fun as always Dull quests Uninspired new world Continued technical issues While there have been a plethora of Pokémon games over the past decade, each of which twists the RPG formula in its own way, it’s a single DLC that sticks with me most.
Pokémon Sword and Shield ’s Isle of Armor is a strong expansion that would set the stage for Scarlet and Violet ’s full open-world pivot. An intricately designed island filled with side-activities and fun scavenger hunts would convince me that developer Game Freak was headed in the right direction.
Cultural education More performance issues Three years later, it feels like I’m back at Area Zero with The Teal Mask.
 The first expansion for last year’s Scarlet and Violet is similar to Isle of Armor on paper; players are tossed into a bite-sized open world filled with new monsters to catch and a self-contained story to complete. It’s a proven formula for Game Freak at this point – and that might be the problem. What was once fresh for an aging series is already starting to feel old as I spend hours retreading familiar landscapes. We’ve traded one formula for another.
How to start The Teal Mask DLC in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet Pokémon Presents August 2023: how to watch and what to expect Pokémon Scarlet and Violet’s DLC lets players venture outside of Paldea The Teal Mask shows diminishing returns for Pokémon Scarlet and Violet ’s messy groundwork.
 The base games’ technical issues feel worse than ever here, despite dealing with a less ambitious world. While there’s still fun to be had catching familiar monsters, I’m left hoping that a jump to a more capable console will be the spark the series needs to properly deliver on its open-world pivot.
Cultural education The Teal Mask is the first part of a larger DLC story titled The Hidden Treasure of Area Zero , which will conclude with The Indigo Disk.
 As a setup for a grand story, Teal Mask isn’t much of a part one. The four-hour story barely hints at the larger tale Game Freak is weaving here, instead focusing on what feels like a fairly self-contained adventure. Fortunately, that story is charming. The DLC is set up like an independent study, as players are whisked away to a new area called Kitakami and paired up with students from the local Blueberry Academy.
It’s a sincere way to talk about kids’ emotions through colorful monsters.
The self-guided course has players wandering a small open world, learning local customs, and uncovering a folktale about the legendary Ogerpon. That central story doubles down on Scarlet and Violet ’s storytelling strengths by telling an endearing tale that’s custom-built for young players. It centers around a shy, misunderstood Pokémon that’s been treated as an outcast for all its life, forcing it to hide behind a mask. That connects to a more human story, as one of the young Blueberry Academy students is going through the same journey. It’s a sincere way to talk about kids’ emotions through colorful monsters.
The actual quest surrounding that story isn’t quite as exciting. The quick adventure mostly has me finding signposts in the world that explain the folktale and battling the same two trainers several times. There’s at least a splash of variety in a perfectly fine berry-collecting minigame, a memorable final boss fight, and a late-game photography sidequest. Plus, it does bring a whole batch of returning monsters to the game alongside some fun new designs, like the Matcha ghost whistleblower. Still, nothing I do ever has me as engaged as I was while playing Isle of Armor , with its collectible Digletts, dojo upgrading, and tower battles.
Nintendo It doesn’t help that Kitakami is one of Game Freak’s least exciting Pokémon worlds to date. The fairly bland open world mostly looks like Paldea, with some grassy fields surrounding a central mountain. There are tiny splashes of extra detail, like an apple orchard or a crystal lake, but it mostly feels like I’m looking at familiar assets rearranged. It’s another strange step back from Isle of Armor ’s excellent world, which seamlessly weaved together beaches, grassy wetlands, and deserts. For a story about cultural education, it doesn’t feel like there’s much to learn.
More performance issues With a less engaging adventure to latch onto, Teal Mask lays Pokémon Scarlet and Violet ’s shortcomings bare. I didn’t realize how much I valued the choice-driven structure of those games (in which I could complete three questlines in any order) until I was locked into a fairly linear, uneventful quest. Without that choice, the open-world structure of the base game feels much less freeing.
I’m still playing a game that feels like it’s going to shatter at any moment … With my mind less occupied by a wealth of things to do and see, technical issues stuck out to me even more than they did in Paldea. Assets flashing in and out of existence, frame rate slowdowns, muddy textures all around — every ugly issue that bugged me in Scarlet and Violet feels even more prevalent here. I had hoped that nearly a year of time between the base game’s launch and the arrival of the DLC would give Game Freak some time to optimize the experience, but that isn’t the case. I’m still playing a game that feels like it’s going to shatter at any moment, something that seems especially puzzling after the technically impressive The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom.
Contrary to what some cynics may say, the Nintendo Switch is a capable platform. We’ve seen it excel with games like Fire Emblem Engage and Xenoblade Chronicles 3.
 Whether it’s a shaky foundation or rushed development timelines, it’s been clear since Sword and Shield that something needs to change at Game Freak. Hopefully Nintendo’s next console, which may be right around the corner, can help.
Nintendo Though those technical deficiencies only get more disappointing with each release, it’s a testament to the power of Pokémon that I still breezed through Teal Mask ’s main story in one sitting. There’s an inherent joy in collecting new monsters and watching my Pokédex fill up. Even in the franchise’s weakest moments, that loop I loved as a kid still retains its power here. I still get a little thrill anytime I see a new friend out in the world, carefully knock its HP down, and toss my Pokéball. That still holds up here and will probably get me to download The Indigo Disk later this year (which will at least bring some of the high-level challenges that are lacking here).
Game Freak is on the verge of a good thing with its current generation. It’s cracked how to tell good children’s stories in the Pokémon universe, all while breaking up the usual “road to Elite Four” structure that had gotten stale. However, I feel the same frustration here as I do when I can’t quite catch a Pokémon. Whenever my ball shakes twice before the monster breaks free, I get stubborn. Instead of whittling down its health or trying to inflict a status effect, I just keep throwing more balls until one works. Sometimes I get lucky with my next throw; other times, I’m downgraded to one shake.
Teal Mask feels like the latter.
Pokémon Scarlet — The Hidden Treasure of Area Zero: The Teal Mask was tested on a Nintendo Switch OLED in handheld mode and on a TCL 6-Series R635 when docked.
Editors' Recommendations All new Pokémon in The Teal Mask DLC Pokémon Scarlet and Violet DLC The Teal Mask arrives in September Pokémon Scarlet and Violet: shiny hunting guide Pokémon Presents February 2023: how to watch and what to expect The best Pokémon Scarlet and Violet mods Game Reviews Nintendo Nintendo Switch Product Reviews Gaming Pokémon titles have always provided extra content for players to challenge themselves with after completing the main quest. Pokémon Scarlet and Violet not only has a far more expansive series of main quests but tons more to do even after beating all three of them. Aside from hunting down legendary Pokémon or rematching all the gym leaders, one of the toughest post-game activities that will open up is the Academy Ace Tournament.
Unlike gym leaders, or most other trainers you will fight around Paldea, the competition you will go up against in the Academy Ace Tournament typically won't build their teams around a single Pokémon type. Their teams are all very high-level and diverse, making them quite the challenge to overcome. Here's all the information you need to train your team to become the Academy Ace Tournament champion in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet.
Gaming The Pokémon Company confirmed that Ash Ketchum will no longer be the main protagonist of the series' anime starting in 2023.
Ever since Pokémon! I Choose You! first aired in Japan on April 1, 1997, the Pokémon anime has followed the exploits of 10-year-old Pokémon trainer Ash Ketchum on his quest to become Pokémon Master. After trying and failing many times across 25 seasons, Ash finally managed to become the world's greatest Pokémon trainer in Pokémon Ultimate Journeys: The Series after winning the Pokémon World Coronation Series.
The Pokémon Company is deciding to leave Ash's journey on a high note and will retire his character as the protagonist of the Pokémon anime after the current season. Thankfully, he is getting a proper send-off across the final 11 episodes of Pokémon Ultimate Journeys: The Series, with classic anime characters like Misty and Brock returning to help tell "the final chapter in Ash and Pikachu's story." These final 11 episodes will start airing in Japan on January 13, 2023.
This won't be the end of Pokémon anime adaptions, though; The Pokémon Company will start a new series later next year, following two new characters named Liko and Roy. Details on this new series are still scarce, but we know it will also feature Sprigatito, Fuecoco, Quaxly, and a Shiny Rayquaza in significant roles. We're likely to see them venture through Paldea, the region Pokémon Scarlet and Violet are set in.
While the announcement that Ash Ketchum will no longer be the protagonist of the Pokémon series is bittersweet for those of us who grew up with the Pokémon anime, we can hope that the series will give him a beautiful farewell, and that Liko and Roy's series can successfully capture the hearts of a whole new generation of Pokémon fans.
Gaming Even though Pokémon has reached mass appeal thanks to its cute monsters and simple RPG mechanics, it has also fostered a community of more hardcore trainers. These trainers don't necessarily want to catch 'em all, but rather catch and train the best. To the untrained eye, any two Pokémon of the same species would be identical, but Effort Values, aka EVs, have existed for generations and make a massive impact on how your Pokémon's stats work. This can get very complicated, especially if you're new to EV training, so we'll fill out your Pokédex entry with everything you need to know about EV training in Pokémon Scarlet and Violet.
See more Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
