Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Reviews Saltsea Chronicles review: poignant nautical adventure explores the distances between us By Giovanni Colantonio Close Vibrant art style Rich world Endearing characters Thoughtful dialogue systems Dialogue can feel tedious Lacking meaningful interactions The stakes are high. My misfit crew of sailors is midway through an island-trotting quest to find their missing captain. Rations are running low and there may be more disappearances to worry about. Yet, here I am partying on an island full of crabs. I see it as a fun reprieve from the stress of a water-logged post-apocalypse at first, but a crew member later posits that there’s something more significant to celebrations than simple fun: They’re an acknowledgment that everything is impermanent and that we have to honor what we have while it’s still here.
Sightseeing in a new world Closing the distance That bittersweet theme guides me through Saltsea Chronicles , a new narrative adventure by the creators of 2019’s Seamas McNally award-winning Mutazione.
 I may be exploring distant islands built on a flooded world, but my journey is anything but tragic. I’m soaking in cultures, earnestly working to understand and appreciate them. A dark fate may await my crew once we finally reach the end of our mystery, but that doesn’t mean we can’t stop to celebrate the miracles that surround us.
Among Us VR mode lets players act sus in first person So long as you can handle a lengthy visual novel that requires a lot of button pressing to skip through text, Saltsea Chronicles is another moving narrative game from developer Die Gute Fabrik. An engrossing central mystery serves as a sturdy skeleton housing the adventure’s real heart: an endearing cast of characters eager to admire a densely detailed world with one another.
Sightseeing in a new world Saltsea Chronicles is technically a post-apocalyptic game, but that description makes it sound much grimmer than it is. A bit of historical table setting tells players that a once thriving world was destroyed due to climate change exacerbated by mega-corporations. When the tides rose, society was forced to rebuild on a series of islands. Rather than dealing with the immediate fallout of that, the story takes place far in the future where the world seems to be in harmony.
Die Gute Fabrik The adventure takes players to a series of colorful islands, each of which is painted in Die Gute Fabrik’s signature visual style. The 2D environments are both minimalistic and richly detailed, mixing solid splotches of color with gentle shapes that come together to create luscious flora wrapped around imperfect human structures. It’s a series of landscape paintings that strips each island down to its basics without losing its identity. It’s the same visual style that’s made Mutazione a constant fixture in my brain since I played it.
Even if you didn’t know both games were by the same developer on sight alone, it becomes clear when it begins worldbuilding. The adventure begins with a simple mystery; a boat’s captain, Maja, has disappeared and the crew vows to track them down. Players don’t control one character, but rather the full cast. While the goal is to find some leads, the bulk of the experience is spent learning about each island and its specific culture. One chapter takes me to an observatory perched on a cliff, where I meet an island full of curious researchers. Another takes me to a society of spiritual guides called dreamsailors who can both help me find a way forward and help heal any grief I’m carrying. I’m not learning about the ruins of the old world, but rather the vibrant one that’s sprung from it.
A hopeful story about those distances between us … and what we gain by braving the gaps.
That learning process entirely happens through dialogue, as Saltsea Chronicles is even more of a straight visual novel than Mutazione.
 Rather than freely walking around islands, players simply click on highlighted points of interest to open dialogue exchanges that unfold in a screenplay-like structure, complete with stage directions between lines. That minimal gameplay flow can be tiring considering there are no voiced lines or auto-advance text options.
The lack of interaction is a bit of a step down from Mutazione , which expertly pushes players to learn about its lush world through freer exploration and a gardening component. I’m more of a tourist in Saltsea Chronicles , only ever getting to interact with my surroundings through local card games. That’s reinforced by a compendium full of collectibles that logs everything I’ve seen as a sticker on a page but doesn’t give me much context on them. I’m a sightseer who yearns to be an explorer.
Closing the distance While there’s some distance in its gameplay, there’s still enough to draw me in over 10 hours of story. Its central mystery is a strong hook that dips in and out of magical realism. I’m also tasked with making some important choices that can have a major impact on how my story unfolds. Different decisions will create ongoing “issues” with my crew that I need to work to resolve through my dialogue choices. If I invite a new crew member onto my ship, for instance, that could create some tension with my shipmates. There are always consequences to my choices, even if they don’t reveal themselves until much later.
What draws me in more than anything is Saltsea Chronicles ’ eclectic cast of characters. I became invested in everyone’s story by the end, from the reluctant leader Stew to the radio-obsessed Iris. These characters and their struggles aren’t alone with their problems, though, and developer Die Gute Fabrik emphasizes that with some subtle gameplay systems. For one, I’m never controlling one character, but the full ensemble. When presented with dialogue choices, I’m not so much given lines a character will say verbatim as I am emotional prompts for different characters. I’m more shaping the interpersonal relationships between the crew as their journey unfolds.
Die Gute Fabrik That idea is at its most impactful during island exploration. In each chapter, I have to choose two characters to take ashore. That decision allows me to focus on resolving specific issues between crew members or simply learn more about each person by how they bounce off one another. The most meaningful moment in my adventure came when I sent Stew and Iris out on a mission together, finding common ground between two totally different people bonded by loss.
Our world doesn’t exist in a vacuum; both people and cultures are shaped by one another. Sometimes we may feel like distant islands lost at sea, but we’re all together in the same ocean.
Saltsea Chronicles celebrates that idea with a hopeful story about those distances between us, whether they be physical or emotional, and what we gain by braving the gaps. Even if we know the ocean will wash us all away with time, that doesn’t mean we should ever stop sailing.
Saltsea Chronicles was tested on PC and Steam Deck.
Editors' Recommendations Dave the Diver: tips and tricks for conquering the undersea adventure Among Us adds in-game purchases, experience points, and more in huge update Game Reviews Product Reviews Gaming Lego sets bring joy to our and our kids' eyes. They can help build real problem solving skills by following instructions, encourage creativity by dismissing the instructions and making fun modifications, or be the tools to create something entirely on our own from the ground up. There are tons of Black Friday Lego deals, as you might've guessed, but few places due it as well as Walmart does. Between official Black Friday deals and associated clearance items, the retail giant now has over 80 sets on sale as part of its Walmart Black Friday deals. Go shop the sale now via the button below or read on to see our favorite picks.
Our favorite Walmart Black Friday Lego deal Web With so many Black Friday deals already under way, it can be tough to keep on top of everything. Walmart has dozens of different awesome deals so we've narrowed things down to the best Walmart Black Friday deals currently available. There's a little bit of everything here with discounts on TVs, headphones, laptops, coffee makers, and much more. The retailer is also having a massive Black Friday Lego sale. Whatever you're considering buying, keep reading while we take you through some great options.
Other retailers have started early too, so check out Amazon Black Friday deals and Best Buy Black Friday deals.
Gaming Who doesn't love LEGO? If you're looking for the perfect gift for your kids or yourself, you can save some money during LEGO Black Friday deals. We've pulled some of our favorite options from the most popular LEGO sets, including Marvel, Star Wars, Technics and Speed Champions. There are also some generic sets at the bottom. Most of these are part of the massive Walmart Black Friday LEGO sale, so check that out too. While there are early Black Friday deals, they may not last until the actual shopping event. If you see something, you should grab it today.
Black Friday LEGO Marvel deals The LEGO and Marvel collaboration has brought joy to children for years now. If you want a cheap way to collect figures from your favorite Marvel comics, movies and TV shows, LEGO sets are a great place to start. Below we've pulled some cheap sets that include adult-focused sets like the Infinity Gauntlet and full-size action figures as well as some kid-friendly sets that focus on a mini-fig with some scenery.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
