Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Gaming Reviews Song of Nunu: A League of Legends Story review: Riot Forge’s best game yet By Tomas Franzese Close $30.00 Excellent, emotional story Filled with gameplay variety A kid-friendly introduction to Runeterra Instant-fail stealth sections Occasional performance problems From Brothers: A Tale of Two Sons to Astral Chain to Soulstice , single-player games where players technically control two characters simultaneously have always enticed me. That’s why I was excited to find out that Riot Forge — which creates single-player, narrative-driven League of Legends spinoffs — was working with the developers of RiME to create Song of Nunu: A League of Legends Story.
The cinematic 3D puzzle-platformer stars two somewhat lesser-known League of Legends champions: the Yotai named Nunu and his Yeti friend, Willump.
Riot Forge continues to make its case Keeping things fresh 2-for 1 gameplay soars The adventure seemed even more promising once it was clear that it was a successor to some of Tequila Works’ best titles , RiME and Gylt.
 The result is the best Riot Forge title yet. While Song of Nunu ’s constant set piece variety meant that I occasionally came across a part I didn’t enjoy as much, the adventure’s brisk pace, creativity, engaging story, and accessible look into the world of Runeterra make it a solid all-ages introduction to and expansion of the world of League of Legends.
Watch a full match of League of Legends fighting game Project L Three League of Legends indie game spinoffs will release in 2023 Riot Games Xbox Game Pass benefits: rewards in League of Legends, and more Riot Forge continues to make its case Song of Nunu: A League of Legends Story follows Nunu and Willump on their quest to find Nunu’s mom, whom he was separated from when his Yotai caravan was attacked, and to learn more about a magical artifact called the Heart of the Blue. The pair explore Runeterra’s icy Freljord region, encountering other League of Legends champions like Braum, Orrn, and Lissandra in an adventure that prioritizes its narrative as it tells a story about found family and how people of all ages process grief. Having lost a pet earlier this year, these themes struck a chord with me.
Riot Forge I’ve previously praised Riot Forge for offering unique looks into specific characters and parts of League of Legends’ world that are impossible to explore in the popular MOBA. The publishing label continues to bear fruit with Song of Nunu as it fleshes out a distinct and less well-trodden corner of Runeterra via a compelling adventure. This might also be the most approachable and all-ages League of Legends game yet. The story certainly has darker, emotional moments that address death and grief. It balances those heavy themes with family-friendly lightness, creating an entertaining fantasy adventure in the vein of Disney films like Brother Bear or Onward.
If you’re a parent who loves League of Legends , but do not want to expose your kid to the toxic vitriol that can come with that online game, Song of Nunu provides a kid-friendly way to share your love of Runeterra with them. And if they show interest in the world, Song of Nunu features an approachable written glossary that fills out throughout the adventure and will make players an expert on this part of Runeterra. I knew little about Nunu and Willump going into Song of Nunu , but now they’re up there with the likes of Jinx and Sylas as some of my favorite League of Legends champions.
Keeping things fresh Tequila Works has created a linear adventure and puzzle-driven 3D platformer in the vein of story-focused games in the genre, like its own RiME.
 It’s not an adventure focused on intricate movement like Super Mario Odyssey , as Nunu and Willump control pretty heavily and lose momentum after landing a jump. Instead, it leaps from idea to idea to whatever seamlessly bolsters the tone or story of that game section the most.
Riot Forge One moment, I was climbing along ledges Uncharted-style, and the next, I could be playing a song with Nunu’s Svellsongur flute to move a large creature, or freezing water with Willump’s powers to create a path, or sliding down an icy trail on Willump’s back, or getting in a snowball fight between Nunu and Willump.
Song of Nunu emphasizes variety, keeping the adventure concise and consistently fresh. It only took about six hours for me to beat Song of Nunu , but every moment of that felt handcrafted.
This approach also means that if a particular gameplay style doesn’t click with a player, portions of the game will feel like a lull. This happened to me with a late-game stealth section that instantly reset me to a checkpoint if Nunu got caught. Thankfully, as this was only a tiny chunk of the adventure, I was able to quickly move on to something else that I enjoyed as the game dynamically flowed from idea to idea.
2-for 1 gameplay soars Song of Nunu technically features two playable characters, but Nunu serves as the primary character and commands Willump in some puzzles and the occasional combo-based combat encounter. In some cases, Nunu will get off Willump’s back and have to climb around and solve puzzles in specific segments independently. In these situations, Willump retains all of the abilities the player would have while controlling him, like freezing water or climbing up particular walls.
Tequila Works has mastered the subtle design choices that can enhance a narrative … This makes Willump feel like a living companion character and enables Tequila Works to introduce mechanics by having him do them first or having him direct players in the right direction during a puzzle. Moments when the two characters are separated become all the more tense as a result. It’s a refreshingly straightforward way for Song of Nunu to handle having two main characters in a single-player adventure, and it reinforces the brotherly bond between Nunu and Willump at the narrative’s core.
Tequila Works has mastered the subtle design choices that can enhance a narrative, like carefully framing the camera in specific gameplay sections for emotional impact or ensuring there is little dead air between set pieces unless it is emotionally necessary for the story. This, along with how gameplay dynamically flows between Nunu on his own and Nunu riding Willump, makes Song of Nunu feel like a naturalistic adventure, which further immerses me in its world. The PC version of the game always looked crisp and emboldened its vibrant visual design, although the frame rate would occasionally stutter and take me out of certain moments.
Riot Forge As the story wraps up, Nunu goes from grief-stricken to a hero worthy of being called a League of Legends champion. The completion of that emotional arc hit my heart.
Song of Nunu is not the most complex puzzle platformer around and has its occasional frustrations. Still, everything it does is in service of a compelling narrative that’s only enhanced by its unique two-for-one gameplay. Riot Forge’s games have only improved with time, so I recommend trying out Song of Nunu and keeping an eye on its future games like Bandle Tale , even if you aren’t interested in League of Legends.
Song of Nunu: A League of Legends Story was reviewed on PC.
Editors' Recommendations Riot Forge explains why Bandle Tale is a perfect fit for its developer Xbox Game Pass adds one of 2022’s best racing games this month Legends of Runeterra 2023 road map outlined by Riot Games Evercore Heroes applies League of Legends’ formula to a cooperative game League of Legends fighting game will be free-to-play Game Reviews PC Gaming Product Reviews Gaming Riot Games has fully unveiled everything League of Legends players need to know about the next Champion: Bel'Veth the Void Empress.
As her gaudy name suggests, Bel'veth is an all-powerful being from the Void dimension and a brand-new threat to Runeterra. Last week, she got a delightfully eerie cinematic trailer where she spars with Kai'Sa before revealing her true form. How she plays in League of Legends matters just as much as her lore, however. Thankfully, Riot Games released a trailer showing her in action on Monday.
Bel’Veth: The Empress of the Void | Champion Trailer - League of Legends Today, Riot Games unveiled what all of Bel'Veth's abilities are. Her passive ability is called Death in Lavender, which increases her attack speed temporarily after using an ability and permanently after defeating a monster or Champion. Her Q-key ability is called Void Surge and makes Bel'Veth dash forward, damaging everyone she hits. Bel'Veth's W-key ability is Above and Below, where she slams her tail on the ground to damage and slow any enemies while reducing Void Surge's cooldown. The E-key ability is Royal Maelstrom, where Bel'Veth lets out a flurry of quick slashes that deal more damage to those with low health and increase her damage reduction and life steal.
Finally, Bel'Veth has an ultimate ability called Endless Banquet, which she'll need Void Coral from killing monsters and champions to be able to use. With Endless Banquet, Bel'Veth explodes while transforming into her True Form, damaging and slowing the enemies around her. True Form Bel'Veth will turn enemies she kills into Voidlings that fight alongside her, and she gains increased health, move speed, attack range, and attack speed. Overall, Bel'Veth seems like a ferocious attacker that you won't want to take on alone at low health.
Bel'Veth the Void Empress will be added to League of Legends on June 9.
Gaming Riot Forge has announced a new game in the League of Legends universe. Hextech Mayhem: A League of Legends Story is a rhythm-based game that will be available on the Nintendo Switch, PC, and Netflix on November 16.
Hextech Mayhem is a rhythm-runner-style game that stars Ziggs, a yordle with an undying passion for explosions. Players must perform bomb jumps and bomb attacks to the beat of the soundtrack. There will be obstacles for players to avoid and light fuses scattered around the levels that can set off a chain reaction of explosions.
Gaming Players will be able to play Riot Games titles like League of Legends and Valorant through the Epic Games Store. In addition to that, Riot and Epic are collaborating to bring Jinx from the upcoming League of Legends animated series to Fortnite.
League of Legends, Valorant, Teamfight Tactics, and Legends of Runeterra are now available to download on the Epic Games Store. When a player downloads these games on the Epic Games Store, they will also download the Riot Games launcher so they can directly access these games.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
