Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Sonic Superstars review: nostalgic pit stop struggles to tune up the 2D greats By Giovanni Colantonio Close $60.00 Great physics Excellent level design Multiple characters to play Battle mode is a fun extra Frustrating boss design Poorly implemented power-ups Disappointing aesthetics Poor multiplayer Sonic’s slogan may be “Gotta go fast,” but Sonic Superstars shows that there’s value in slowing down every once and a while. Last year, the blue blur fearlessly bolted into the future with Sonic Frontiers , leaving nostalgia behind with a radical “open-zone” pivot that looked to modernize the series. It was an admirable move, though it took Sonic even further away from his roots with mixed results. It left me a little dizzy; I felt like I could no longer keep up with the series’ constantly changing identity.
Blast from the past Out with the new Modes and multiplayer Thankfully, the well-timed Sonic Superstars is a suitable remedy for that motion sickness. Rather than speeding forward with another messy reinvention, developers Arzest and Sonic Team slow the series’ roll to deliver the familiar 2D platformer some fans have been begging for. It’s not just an easy nostalgia play, though; this return to form tiptoes back to the heart of the series and seeks wisdom from what was once a winning formula. It’s as much a retro revival as it is a research expedition made to rediscover what made Sonic’s first adventures so special.
Sonic Superstars brings the series back to 2D with co-op Idris Elba will voice Knuckles in Sonic the Hedgehog 2 Sonic Superstars nails the fundamentals of the series’ best games with pitch-perfect physics and strong level design. The blast from the past unearths some old flaws along the way too in the form of frustrating bosses and momentum-killing digressions. Underwhelming new features don’t evolve the formula in any meaningful way, but Superstars is an important reset that lays the series’ best and worst qualities out for all to learn from.
Blast from the past Sonic Superstars plays exactly like one of the blue blur’s Sega Genesis adventures , only replacing pixel art with smooth cartoon visuals. The hedgehog and his playable pals zip through a series of 2D stages filled with alternate pathways, rings, and well-hidden secrets. Sonic Team gets the important parts of that formula right. That starts with its familiar physics, which allows players to easily barrel through levels at high speeds while still being able to stop quickly and tackle a tricky platforming puzzle without sliding around. It feels exactly as I remember from my days as a Genesis kid, and that’s key to communicating what it was like to play those games in their heyday.
Also important to capturing that feeling is Superstars’ excellent level design. The intricately designed platforming stages are full of crisscrossing paths that seamlessly weave in and out of one another while you’re exploring. There’s also good reason to jump back into stages once clearing them to try new paths, as stages are loaded with collectible coins, fruits, and secret minigames.
Exploration is an act of pure childhood joy … It’s while exploring those stages that I’m reminded what truly made those original 2D entries special. At their best, Sonic stages capture the essence of a playground. One minute I’m zipping downward on a slide-like ramp. Next thing I know, I’m flung into the air by a vine or bounced off a spring like a trampoline. Exploration is an act of pure childhood joy, and there’s always a reward for curiosity no matter what direction players end up in.
While not every zone is a winner, enough of them land to make Superstars an enjoyable platforming throwback. Pinball Carnival recaptures the stylish fun of Sonic 2 ’s casino zone, while Bridge Island is every bit as bright and breezy as Green Hill Zone. Granted, the game is light on original ideas. A chunk of zones have some sort of analog to previous ones, with only a few feeling particularly fresh. Cyber Station, for instance, includes a transformative voxel art twist that makes for its most memorable moment. Those creative swings are few and far between, leaving many zones without much personality beyond their nostalgic design cues.
Sega The fast-paced platforming is at its best when I’m fluidly running through obstacles at full speed, like I’m riding a roller coaster. Unfortunately, it’s easy to lose momentum. Beyond some tricky obstacles that slow the action down at times, Superstars goes heavy on minigames that can kill the pace. There’s the series’ classic spinning maze bonus stage, a ring-collecting skydiving detour, and a Chaos Emerald minigame that has me swinging toward a floating jewel to unlock a new power-up. Each is a fine extra on its own, but stages are overloaded with them. In early levels, it felt like I was hopping into one every 20 seconds.
While completionists may find themselves exhausted by all the shiny distractions, Sonic Superstars is at its best when I’m simply zooming forward without a care in the world. The best secrets are the ones I bump into by accident, anyways.
Out with the new While the fundamentals are squeaky clean, Sonic Superstars hits a lot of snags along the way. Boss fights, for instance, are a mixed bag of retro design. Some are a delightful throwback; I’ll always have a soft spot for fights where I need to satisfyingly bop an oversized Eggman robot on the head a few times while avoiding some easy to dodge attack patterns. Others create the adventure’s more frustrating moments. In one battle against a flying robot bird, I need to run across conveyor belts to keep up with it and dodge attacks. The tight physics get thrown out of whack as getting the right momentum to actually hit the bird can be difficult. An utterly disastrous final boss fight also had me ready to quit as I had to sit through drawn-out attack patterns for 10 minutes, only to repeatedly die due to poor chase scene physics at the tail end.
Powers largely aren’t worth the effort it takes to find them.
Other elements are more of a missed opportunity than an explicit problem.
Superstars ’ biggest addition is unlockable powers earned through Chaos Emeralds. Sonic and pals can gain the ability to summon a herd of clones to clear a screen or reveal invisible objects. It’s a fun twist in theory, but one that’s poorly executed. For example, they’re difficult to actually pull off on the fly. To activate one, I need to push in my right joystick and select a power. That’s not so easy to do, especially when I’m running through fast-paced levels. I’d usually have to stop dead if I wanted to use one, which is another momentum killer.
I’d be more inclined to stop and use them if they felt useful, but that’s the feature’s fundamental problem. Since all powers are entirely optional, levels are designed without them in mind. You seemingly don’t need to use a single one to find any secret, though it may make the task a little easier. A power that turns players into water, allowing them to climb up waterfalls, is useless in most stages. When I first tried to use my clone herd ability in a boss fight, I was disappointed to see it had no effect on the boss I was fighting. They largely aren’t worth the effort it takes to find them.
Sega Superstars ’ new aesthetic design isn’t much of a winner, either. Sega tries to strike a balance between new and retro with a cartoony 2.5D art style, but it’s often lacking in personality. Flat colors and soft textures don’t do stages like the sunny Lagoon City justice, which is a shame considering the series’ history of meticulously detailed art design. Music similarly fails to stand out as it reaches for some forgettable retro fare.
I played the Nintendo Switch version of the game, which makes matters even worse. In addition to some jagged visuals, I experienced frequent stutters on the platform. That especially made some of those chase scene boss fights even more frustrating, as I lost plenty of lives due to frame hiccups.
Modes and multiplayer Sonic Superstars ‘ big back-of-the-box feature is its emphasis on multiplayer, though that’s not as much of a selling point as it seems. In local co-op, up to four players can adventure together. However, the camera only tracks whichever player is furthest ahead in the course — something that’s fairly difficult to deduce in fast-paced, twisty levels. It’s the kind of multiplayer implementation that’ll leave players who can’t keep pace barely playing at all as they’re teleported back to their friend.
Sega Fortunately, the inclusion of co-op does make the solo experience better. From the jump, Superstars features four playable characters, each of which has their own traversal gimmick. Tails can use his helicopter tail to fly vertically, Knuckles can climb walls, and Amy Rose has a double jump. Each ability totally changes how players can explore a stage, making hard-to-reach routes more easily accessible depending on the character. It’s essentially the concept of the new Chaos Emerald powers, but delivered in a more natural way.
A pair of extra modes are a little more suited to that multiplayer design, though mileage may vary. Battle Mode is a cute minigame gauntlet that delivers harmless fun. Here, players customize a mech avatar (by spending Sonic coins earned during the adventure) and compete in three rounds of challenges. These can be as simple as surviving long enough in a falling platform battle or collecting the most stars in a level. It’s no Fall Guys , but character customization and tracked stats give players a little progression to work toward.
Superstars never quite figures out the right side dish to bring to the retro table.
There’s also a Time Attack mode, which seems like a slam dunk on paper. Run through a stage as fast as possible and put your time on a leaderboard — simple, right? Oddly enough, that easy win is complicated. If players lag too much in a stage, they’re abruptly kicked back to the beginning, with no hope of making up lost time. The rules aren’t explained anywhere, so I’m not really sure what causes that fail state. I expected to spend most of my time after beating the story trying to get the fastest time possible, but the only speedrun I pulled off was my “time to quit.” All of these issues began to add up by the end of my time with Sonic Superstars.
 While I was immediately smitten as I zipped through Bridge Island with familiar speed, those returns diminished the deeper I got into messier later levels and underwhelming extra modes. Nostalgia is only a starting point, something the developers behind Sonic Mania understood incredibly well. That game hit all the right notes, but still found ways to loop in the studio’s own creativity (who can forget the excellent Mean Bean Machine boss fight?).
Superstars never quite figures out the right side dish to bring to the retro table. It’s a fun pit stop on Sonic’s decades’ long marathon, but I don’t imagine Sega will spend much time-tuning the series here before it’s on to the next idea.
Gotta go fast, as they say.
Sonic Superstars was tested on a Nintendo Switch OLED in handheld mode and on a TCL 6-Series R635 when docked.
Editors' Recommendations Sonic Superstars is getting a Lego DLC, but game still has no release date Sonic the Hedgehog 2 is highest-grossing game-based movie ever Game Reviews Product Reviews Gaming Microsoft's latest console, the Xbox Series X, is a powerhouse, oftentimes matching or outperforming the PlayStation 5 in multiplatform releases. But how are the exclusives? The Xbox Series X had a thin lineup at launch, but over the years has amassed a more than impressive catalogue of titles.
We will only include Xbox One games if they've been optimized for Series X and S (like Gears 5). Also, we're ignoring PCs entirely. If you factor in PC releases, Microsoft hasn't had a console-exclusive game in years. While many exciting games are still to come, such as Fable and Hellblade 2, there are more than enough to keep you satisfied until then.
Gaming Lego sets bring joy to our and our kids' eyes. They can help build real problem solving skills by following instructions, encourage creativity by dismissing the instructions and making fun modifications, or be the tools to create something entirely on our own from the ground up. There are tons of Black Friday Lego deals, as you might've guessed, but few places due it as well as Walmart does. Between official Black Friday deals and associated clearance items, the retail giant now has over 80 sets on sale as part of its Walmart Black Friday deals. Go shop the sale now via the button below or read on to see our favorite picks.
Our favorite Walmart Black Friday Lego deal Web With so many Black Friday deals already under way, it can be tough to keep on top of everything. Walmart has dozens of different awesome deals so we've narrowed things down to the best Walmart Black Friday deals currently available. There's a little bit of everything here with discounts on TVs, headphones, laptops, coffee makers, and much more. The retailer is also having a massive Black Friday Lego sale. Whatever you're considering buying, keep reading while we take you through some great options.
Other retailers have started early too, so check out Amazon Black Friday deals and Best Buy Black Friday deals.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
