Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The 7th Guest VR review: a spooky ’90s remake just in time for Halloween By Giovanni Colantonio Close Fun, campy story Classic mansion is well reimagined Varied, tactile puzzles Clumsy controls Frustrating late game puzzles How do you preserve a game like The 7th Guest ? The PC classic was a groundbreaking release in 1993, offering an uncharacteristically dark game for the time with some impressive prerendered 3D graphics. Play it today, though, and that fact will be hard to glean. By today’s standards, it’s easy to mistake it for a boilerplate puzzle adventure of the era full of cheesy acting. There’s only so much a simple remaster can do to preserve the oohs and aahs of a release that old.
Return to the haunted mansion VR quirks Perhaps sensing that tension, Vertigo Games takes a very different remake approach with The 7th Guest VR.
 Rather than dropping a polished version of the original into a headset, the new release is a ground-up reimagining. It features the same spooky mansion, now built as a fully explorable 3D space, but that’s about all it has in common. A more fleshed-out murder mystery and an almost entirely original set of puzzles aim to imagine what The 7th Guest might have looked like were it made with today’s technical advancements.
PlayStation VR2 adds even more games to its launch lineup PlayStation VR2’s launch lineup features more than just Horizon Call of the Mountain Sony revives a PlayStation 2 deep cut as a PS VR2 launch title It’s a creative remake approach that finds mixed results.
The 7th Guest VR works best as a campy haunted house adventure filled with intuitive escape room puzzles. That tactile fun gets complicated by the quirks of virtual reality, as fiddly motion controls offer its biggest scare of all.
Return to the haunted mansion While The 7th Guest VR is a fairly radical reimagining of its predecessor, it shares a lot of foundational DNA. Players are called to a spooky mansion on a dark and stormy night where they encounter a haunted house full of ghosts, puzzles, and creepy puppets. The VR remake has a lot of fun expanding the 1993 game’s story, blowing it up into a full-on murder mystery as players learn what happened to a handful of guests who were mysteriously invited to the house. It’s full of old horror tropes and supernatural camp, which makes for a fun genre throwback.
Story was an important aspect of the original 7th Guest thanks to its heavy use of pre-rendered 3D video. That put real actors into the PC game — a remarkable feat for 1993. The VR version looks to recapture that wow factor with a magic trick of its own: volumetric video. That brings its cast of ghostly actors to life, as players can fully walk around them in 3D. It’s not as groundbreaking a technical feat, but it does help pump up its cinematic charm by putting players in the center of an interactive horror movie.
Vertigo Games The immersive nature of VR does the original game’s spooky tone justice, as the old mansion gets a suitable 3D makeover here. Each room is a Halloween delight, filled with thick cobwebs, scratched-up portraits, and dusty furniture. All of these artistic additions are where The 7th Guest VR functions best as a remake. In 2023, it’s hard to communicate how an old PC game with a goofy MIDI soundtrack and corny visuals felt genuinely unnerving at the time of release. The VR version does a great job of modernizing the ghost story, balancing light horror and playful camp. It’s more Disney’s Haunted Mansion than Phasmophobia , but that tone is a perfect match for the original.
VR quirks While its campy horror aesthetics make for fun set dressing, The 7th Guest VR is more of a mixed experience when it comes to puzzles. The core gameplay loop is easy enough: Each room of the mansion is its own mini escape room filled with interconnecting puzzles. Some of those find a great balance by mixing in some cerebral brain-teasers with tactile solutions that make great use of VR. In a gross bathroom, I’m guiding cockroaches across a spider-infested wall by shooing the insects off and blocking holes in the wall with my hands. In another, I’m sticking my hand through a magician’s hat to snag items I can’t reach otherwise.
There are tons of creative interactions here, with no two puzzle rooms feeling the same. A few even pay tribute to the more board game-like nature of the original’s puzzles. A familiar logic conundrum has me placing down a handful of queens on a chess board, taking care not to put them in one another’s crosshairs. In the kitchen, a piece of frozen meat turns into a jigsaw puzzle as I reconstruct it for a witch’s brew. Puzzles like that call back to the old age of PC puzzlers while still utilizing the more modern tactile feel of VR to their advantage.
The 7th Guest VR does feel behind the tech’s potential at times.
The tech is often The 7th Guest ’s greatest hindrance, though. Through my playthrough, I experienced a number of finicky motion-controlled moments that left me pulling out my hair underneath my PSVR2. One room has me placing dolls in a guillotine, reattaching the heads to other dolls, and placing them in the right seats at a tea party. It’s a great logic puzzle in theory, but it’s an absolute pain to get the dolls into their proper positions.
In some ways, I feel like I’m critiquing VR platforms more than the game itself, but The 7th Guest VR doesn’t always design around the tech quirks. Several late-game puzzles require precision as I press piano keys or carefully tap tiny rings in a jewelry box. Those aren’t exactly easy tasks when using fat-fingered motion controls. The back half is full of annoying interactions like that, which eventually had me spending coins to auto-solve puzzles. They weren’t hard to figure out; I just was tired of wasting time with execution.
Vertigo Games Perhaps those technical hiccups make for a more faithful experience in the end. After all, PCs had their own frustrating limitations in 1993; maybe it’s only right that a VR remake comes with the early warts of a new gaming era too. I can appreciate that on a high-concept level, but The 7th Guest VR does feel behind the tech’s potential at times. It’s a noticeably messier experience than something like The Room VR: A Dark Matter , an excellent horror puzzler from 2020 that nailed clean, motion-controlled escape room gameplay.
While I was eager to escape the mansion by the time I reached a frustrating string of final challenges, I still admire The 7th Guest VR as a left-field remake. It’s a thoughtfully considered reimagining that does a commendable job of capturing a PC classic’s haunted house energy, while still delivering an experience that’s entirely its own. If nothing else, it’s a fine way for shut-ins to spend a Halloween while hiding from trick-or-treaters.
The 7th Guest VR was reviewed on PlayStation VR2.
Editors' Recommendations Atari is publishing its first VR game, and it’s coming to PSVR2 Over 100 PlayStation VR2 games are in development, Sony says CES 2023: Gran Turismo 7 is coming to PS VR2 as a launch game PlayStation VR2 launches in February and it costs more than a PS5 PlayStation VR games are not backward compatible with PlayStation VR2 Game Reviews Product Reviews Sony Sony PlayStation Virtual Reality Gaming During today's State of Play presentation, Sony shared a new trailer for Horizon Call of the Mountain. The clip gave a close look at its gameplay, which features several of the series' signature mechanics.
Horizon Franchise - State of Play June 2022 Trailers | PS5, PS4 & PS VR2 Games Gaming PlayStation finally unveiled its starting lineup for its revamped PlayStation Plus service coming to consoles starting June 13. This new tiered membership is more in the vein of Xbox Game Pass and offers players an extensive catalog of PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, and classic PlayStation titles depending on what plan is subscribed to.
This refurbishment of PlayStation Plus comes in the three tiers: Essential, extra, and premium/deluxe. These decide what add-ons and what titles one can access but each still comes with the standard Plus caveats such as playing online and getting the standard free monthly games.
Gaming On February 10, PlayStation highlighted seven new indie games in the works for PS4, PS5, and PlayStation VR. While none of the announcements were on the level of yesterday's Nintendo Direct, quite a few unique games still got their time in the spotlight. These are the seven intriguing indie games that PlayStation highlighted.
Moss: Book II The first game PlayStation showed was the sequel to Moss, one of the best VR games out there. It got a PlayStation Blog post mainly focused on world design. Polyarc explained how rooms are much bigger and interconnected in Moss: Book II, so players will have a chance to revisit areas they like and see them from different angles. Moss: Book II will be released this Spring, so it doesn't look like it will be available on the PlayStation VR2.
Animal Well Animal Well - Announcement Trailer | PS5 Next, PlayStation showed a platformer for PS5 called Animal Well with a trailer and PlayStation Blog post. Just one person made this minimalist pixel-art platformer, and they plan to incorporate survival horror elements and mind-bending puzzles and secrets into the game. Animal Well will be released for PS5 sometime in late 2022 or early 2023.
Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Shredder's Revenge Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Shredder's Revenge - Splinter Reveal Trailer | PS4 The highlight of today's wave of indie game announcements was Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Shredder's Revenge. A new trailer for the game was released and confirmed that Master Splinter is playable. This is the first time he's been playable in a TMNT game, and his move set is packed with plenty of references to the show. A gameplay video with commentary that lasts nearly nine minutes was also uploaded and gave us our first good uncut look at how Shredder's Revenge will play. For fans of classic beat 'em up, specifically, the TMNT ones, Shredder's Revenge looks like it will be a blast from the past. It launches later this year.
Post Void Post Void - Announcement Trailer | PS4 Post Void takes the prize for the weirdest announcement. The previously released PC game is like a mix between Cruelty Squad and Doom. It's a roguelike with psychedelic visuals where players will have to move fast or die. It will be released for PS4 and PS5 this spring.
Salt and Sacrifice Salt and Sacrifice - Release Date Announce Trailer | PS5, PS4 Salt and Sacrifice is a sequel to Salt and Sanctuary, a Dark Souls-inspired sidescrolling action game and one of the most notable PlayStation indie games. In a new trailer and PlayStation Blog post, the developers highlighted the PvP element of Salt and Sacrifice and confirmed that it will be released for PS4 and PS5 on May 10.
Samurai Gunn 2 Samurai Gunn 2 - Announcement Trailer | PS5 Samurai Gunn 2 is a fighting game where characters die in just one hit. With a new trailer and PlayStation Blog post, its developers confirmed that the game would come to PS5 and feature crossover characters and stages from popular indie games like Among Us, Spelunky 2, and Minit.
Hello Neighbor 2 Hello Neighbor 2 - Pre-Order Trailer | PS5, PS4 As the final indie announcement of the day, tinyBuild games confirmed that Hello Neighbor 2 is coming to PS4 and PS5. The Hello Neighbor games are popular with streamers as players try to survey and escape the grasp of a cast of creepy characters. Those who pre-order the game can try a bet on April 7.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
