Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming News Baldur’s Gate 3 and Alan Wake 2 lead this year’s Game Awards nominations By Tomas Franzese Close The Game Awards The nominees for The Game Awards 2023 are here following a livestream hosted by Geoff Keighley on Monday morning. It’s been an excellent year for video games, and the nominations reflect that, at least in the AAA space.
Baldur’s Gate 3 and Alan Wake 2 garnered the most nominations, with eight each, but titles like Marvel’s Spider-Man 2, The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom , and Super Mario Bros. Wonder also garnered several nominations.
In terms of indies, none got that much love in the show’s biggest categories. However, games like Cocoon , Dredge, Viewfinder, and Terra Nil did pop up multiple times in the indie-friendly categories. We’ll have a few weeks to think about all of these nominations ahead of The Game Awards 2023. This Keighley-hosted event is essentially the video game industry’s version of the Oscars. It’s one of the biggest stages where developers are awarded for their work and also doubles as a lengthy showcase featuring many game announcements and other gaming-related world premieres. This year is shaping up to be no different and might even go bigger as it’s the 10th annual The Game Awards show.
You can see the full list of nominees for The Game Awards 2023 below. The winners will be revealed during the event on December 7.
Game of the Year Alan Wake 2 Baldur’s Gate 3 Marvel’s Spider-Man 2 Resident Evil 4 Super Mario Bros. Wonder The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom Best Game Direction Alan Wake 2 Baldur’s Gate 3 Marvel’s Spider-Man 2 Super Mario Bros. Wonder The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom Best Narrative Alan Wake 2 Baldur’s Gate 3 Cyberpunk 2077: Phantom Liberty Final Fantasy XVI Marvel’s Spider-Man 2 Best Art Direction Alan Wake 2 Hi-Fi Rush Lies of P Super Mario Bros. Wonder The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom Best Score and Music Alan Wake 2 , composer Petri Alanko Baldur’s Gate 3, composer Borislav Slavov Final Fantasy XVI , composer Masayoshi Soken Hi-Fi Rush, audi director Shuichi Kobori The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom, composed by Nintendo Sound Team Best Audio Design Alan Wake 2 Dead Space Hi-Fi Rush Marvel’s Spider-Man 2 Resident Evil 4 Best Performance Ben Starr, Final Fantasy XVI Cameron Monaghan, Star Wars Jedi: Survivor Idris Elba, Cyberpunk 2077: Phantom Liberty Melanie Liburd, Alan Wake 2 Neil Newbon, Baldur’s Gate 3 Yuri Lowenthal, Marvel’s Spider-Man 2 Games for Impact A Space for the Unbound Chants of Sennaar Goodbye Volcano High Tchia Terra Nil Venba Best Ongoing Game Apex Legends Cyberpunk 2077 Final Fantasy XIV Fortnite Genshin Impact Best Indie Cocoon Dave the Diver Dredge Sea of Stars Viewfinder Best Debut Indie Game Cocoon Dredge Pizza Tower Venba Viewfinder Best Community Support Baldur’s Gate 3 Cyberpunk 2077 Destiny 2 Final Fantasy XIV No Man’s Sky Best AR/VR Gran Turismo 7 Humanity Horizon Call of the Mountain Resident Evil Village VR Mode Synapse Best Mobile Final Fantasy VII Ever Crisis Honkai Star Rail Hello Kitty Island Adventure Monster Hunter Now Terra Nil Best Action Adventure Alan Wake 2 Marvel’s Spider-Man 2 Resident Evil 4 Star Wars Jedi: Survivor The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom Best Action Armored Core VI: Fires of Rubicon Dead Island 2 Ghostrunner 2 Hi-Fi Rush Remnant II Best RPG Baldur’s Gate 3 Final Fantasy XVI Lies of P Sea of Stars Starfield Best Fighting God of Rock Mortal Kombat 1 Nickelodeon All-Star Brawl 2 Pocket Bravery Street Fighter 6 Best Family Disney Illusion Island Party Animals Pikmin 4 Sonic Superstars Super Mario Bros. Wonder Best Sim/Strategy Advance Wars 1+2: Re-Boot Camp Cities: Skylines 2 Company of Heroes 3 Fire Emblem Engage Pikmin 4 Best Sports/Racing EA Sports FC 24 F1 23 Forza Motorsport Hot Wheels Unleashed 2: Turbocharged The Crew Motorfest Best Multiplayer Baldur’s Gate 3 Diablo IV Party Animals Street Fighter 6 Super Mario Bros. Wonder Most Anticipated Final Fantasy VII Rebirth Hades II Like a Dragon: Infinite Wealth Star Wars Outlaws Tekken 8 Best Adaptation Castlevania Nocturne Gran Turismo The Last of Us The Super Mario Bros. Movie Twisted Metal Content Creator of the Year Iron Mouse People Make Games Quackity Spreen SypherPK Best Esports Game Counter-Strike 2 DOTA 2 League of Legends PUBG Mobile Valorant Best Esports Athlete Demon1 Faker Hydra Imperial-Hal Ruler Zywoo Best Esports Team Evil Geniuses, Valorant Fanatic, Valorant Gaming Gladiators, DOTA 2 JD Gaming, League of Legends Team Vitality, Counter-Strike Best Esports Coach Potter Homme Gunba XTQZZZ Zonic Best Esports Event 2023 League of Legends World Championship Blast TV Paris Major 2023 EVO 2023 The International DOTA 2 Championships 2023 Valorant Champions 2023 Innovation in Accessibility Diablo IV Forza Motorsport Hi-Fi Rush Marvel’s Spider-Man 2 Mortal Kombat 1 Street Fighter 6 Editors' Recommendations The Game Awards could use some new categories, so we made them ourselves All Lunchbox locations in Alan Wake 2 All Word of Power locations in Alan Wake 2 Alan Wake 2 is proof that more PC games need a potato mode All nursery rhyme solutions in Alan Wake 2 Tech News Gaming While the first Alan Wake game certainly had plenty of scares and horror in it, the mechanics were not as strictly of the survival horror variety. Alan Wake 2 has gone fully in this direction, however, with a much darker tone, disturbing imagery, and restrictive combat mechanics that sustain the tension when The Taken attack.
Aside from limited ammo, low health, and tough enemies to bring down, a key aspect of survival horror games is an inventory system. The first game let you hold essentially as much ammo, batteries, and weapons as you wanted in each chapter, but the sequel introduces a grid system that will look familiar to Resident Evil fans. Just like Resident Evil, your inventory starts off quite small, but you can see there is plenty of space for it to grow. There are specific items hidden in and around Bright Falls that can let you expand your carrying capacity, but many are well hidden in dark corners. Here are the locations of every inventory upgrade in Alan Wake 2.
All inventory upgrades Gaming FBI agent Saga Anderson and her partner, Alex Casey, are called into Bright Falls to investigate a murder committed by a strange group calling themselves the Cult of the Trees. These dangerous cultists are your main enemy in Alan Wake 2, and they put up quite a fight despite mostly using basic tools as weapons. They seem mindless and primitive, but the fact that they have a series of Cultist Stashes hidden all around the world suggests otherwise. These treasure troves are very well hidden, and they're protected with a small puzzle to try and prevent those who may stumble upon one from grabbing all the goodies inside. You'll find yourself short on supplies essentially all the time in Alan Wake 2, so scooping up some extra ammo and batteries is always welcome. Here is where you can find all the Cultist Stashes in Alan Wake 2 and how to open them.
All Cultist Stash locations There are a total of 21 Cultist Stashes to find and unlock in Alan Wake 2. Each zone has its own set to find, and they all have different puzzles you need to solve to open them. None are missable, but some can't be obtained until you make story progress or get specific tools.
Bright Falls Cult Stashes The first Cult Stash you can find comes as soon as you reach the town of Bright Falls for the first time. Instead of going straight to your destination down the block, turn around and head toward the dead end. Behind the truck will be a big locked box. To open this one, all you need to do is play a little game of Simon Says. The keypad will flash three buttons in a sequence that you simply need to repeat to open the box and grab the loot.
Gaming Alan Wake 2 is out today, and it's already shaping up to be one of 2023's most talked-about games. Launching to high critical acclaim, it's currently available for PC, Xbox Series X/S, and PlayStation 5. If you plan on playing it on PC, though, you'll have to do so through the Epic Games Store, as it's not available on Steam. If you're unfamiliar with the platform or haven't played many games through it, here's something you'll want to do before starting: get rid of the app's obnoxious achievement notifications.
Like most platforms, Epic Games Store has its own achievement system. Whenever you clear one in a game, you'll get a big banner at the top of the screen and a loud, cloying ding accompanying it. That's easy to live with in a game with a handful of achievements, but considering that Alan Wake 2 has 66, you'll be seeing it a lot if you leave it on. The survival horror game is a maste rclass in atmosphere, so that ding can be a real mood killer in its most dramatic moments.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
