Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Gaming Reviews Thirsty Suitors review: if you like Scott Pilgrim, check out this stylish indie By Giovanni Colantonio Close Nuanced story Creative combat and cooking Very stylish Streamlined skating Overarching narrative is weak Gameplay gets repetitive Skating feels disconnected If you feel unwelcome in your hometown, wait until you meet Jala. The star of Thirsty Suitors , a new narrative skateboarding RPG from Outerloop Games, gets one heck of a homecoming when she returns to the childhood town she left behind without a second thought. Not only does she have to face her disappointed mother and angry sister, but a whole fleet of scorned exes out for revenge — or at least a little closure. It’s enough drama to make someone want to pull a 180 and skate right out of town.
Jala vs. the World Spreading it thin Like a pot of water filled to the brim, Thirsty Suitors explores the disastrous moment where all our messy life choices finally boil over. Little problems morph into larger-than-life battles in a unique adventure that blends the grand exuberance of Indian cinema with the nerdy sincerity of Scott Pilgrim. But it’s not the creative RPG battles or over-the-top cooking interludes that make it special; it’s the mature moments in-between where Jala gets a chance to heal the lingering wounds she’s inflicted.
Like its hero, Thirsty Suitors is a charmingly messy game that juggles a little more than it can handle. Its multipronged gameplay loop wobbles between inventive and repetitive over the course of its eight-hour story. What it lacks in polish, though, it makes up for with a nuanced narrative about how the past isn’t always a haunting specter to hide from.
Jala vs. the World Thirsty Suitors doesn’t waste time unloading emotional baggage. As soon as I select New Game, I’m quickly forced to confront Jala’s hometown reign of terror. Part of that is a cultural battle, as the queer skater punk returns home to an Tamil mother who isn’t shy about telling Jala that she betrayed her family and culture by abruptly leaving town years ago (her TV-loving Sri Lankan father is much more chill about the arrangement). At least mom is kind enough to say it to her face, though; Jala’s sister has opted for the silent treatment, even going as far as to cut Jala out of her upcoming wedding. It’s a grounded story made up of tangled threads, one which expertly unveils another piece of Jala’s history as the story progresses.
No battle paints Jala’s lovers as evil obstacles impeding her progress, but as real humans … Jala’s battles aren’t just symbolic. On top of everything else, her exes have bonded together and are intent on making her answer for her reckless past. It’s a setup that draws clear inspiration from Scott Pilgrim vs. The World , but one that’s approached with more maturity. Each ex (and their heartbreak) paints a fuller portrait of Jala’s evolving views on relationships and where she sees herself in them. What starts with a harmless reconnection with her third-grade fling Sergio builds to a more soul-searching reconciliation with her most recent ex, Tyler. No battle paints Jala’s lovers as evil obstacles impeding her progress, but as real humans seeking understanding of what happened.
Those moments make up the heart of Thirsty Suitors ’ story, as Jala learns more about herself each time she’s confronted with a piece of her past. Fights aren’t just won by knocking an enemy’s health bar down to zero; each concludes with a prompt to “make up” with the person, allowing both of them to move on. With each bit of closure, Jala gains the clear-eyed confidence she needs to heal the bigger family wounds still festering.
Annapurna Interactive It’s not always the cleanest story. An overarching plot about a townie youth cult (led by a man in a bear suit) tries too hard to ratchet up the stakes and some key plotlines abruptly start and stop. I get the sense that Outerloop Games tried to pack in more narrative than its small indie scale allowed at times. The entire adventure takes place across three small locations filled with side characters that fight for limited screen time. I almost get why Jala was so eager to leave as so many people fight for my attention.
Despite that, it’s those one-on-one moments with Jala’s exes that make Thirsty Suitors ’ story worthwhile. It’s an unabashedly queer story about a woman balancing her responsibilities to others with her own personal needs and self expression. There’s space for all of that as Jala grinds down the rail of life; she just needs to nail the balancing act.
Spreading it thin While Thirsty Suitors tells a grounded story, it’s dressed up with over-the-top gameplay that blows things up to a grander scale. That starts with its underlying RPG hooks , as Jala fights both her exes and arranged suitors in turn-based battles. It’s an immediately lovable system, as Jala inflicts her foes with status ailments like “thirst” and (symbolically) bashes them with her skateboard. Attacks are interspersed with vocal barbs as Jala and her exes hash out their past midbattle. It’s a clever use of an RPG framework that turns what could have been a visual novel into something more active. Those fights lean into Thirsty Suitors ’ stylized panache too, as Jala unleashes charmingly exaggerated attacks presented in vibrant pop art style.
There’s no real skill to combat after a while … Outerloop Games takes notes from the Mario RPGs to pull that off. Each attack is executed with quick minigames that have players mashing buttons or moving their joystick at the right moment. It’s more fun than simply selecting a move from a list, though that system does get repetitive fairly fast. There are only a handful of attacks Jala learns, and their prompts never change. There’s no real skill to it after a while, as it just becomes busy work that extends already lengthy fights even further.
Different exes don’t exactly shake that formula up either. The strategy is more or less the same in almost every battle: inflict a status effect the enemy is weak to, push the momentum with an attack of that type, and hit basic ones to restore willpower. An occasional dancing minigame or narrative twist breaks up a few battles, but there’s not too much depth to be found after getting the system down pat. Fortunately, there aren’t a glut of battles either, as it’s more of a light RPG with a handful of central battles than one that calls for grinding.
Annapurna Interactive That idea of great gameplay concepts being spread thin carries over to Thirsty Suitors ’ other components. Between battles, Jala can cook meals with her mother to create buff-inducing consumables in battle. It’s another ingeniously creative idea as Jala works to win her mother’s approval with each recipe step during a Cooking Mama-style minigame. There are even some hilarious cultural gags peppered in, as Jala can try to gain a bonus by complimenting her mother — a move that can backfire, as the game notes that Indian mothers are hard to predict. Like combat, that playful loop gets stale too as it doesn’t mix up its button timing minigames or exuberant animations much, even between recipes.
Skateboarding is more varied than cooking and combat, though it’s also the least important to the experience as a whole. Jala gets around town on her skateboard and Outerloop Games tries to make that as smooth and satisfying as possible. Players can’t really wipe out, which allows them to chain together massive trick combos like they’re in a Tony Hawk game. Players can test those skills even more with optional challenges that reward cash, battle items, and cosmetic gear, which lets them change up Jala’s style. It’s a fun way to kill time between big story developments, though it winds up feeling detached from the experience at large.
Annapurna Interactive Thirsty Suitors never fully loses its balance, as it tackles everything it does with its whole heart, but it does leave the whole package feeling a bit like Jala herself. She’s pulled in too many directions during her trip home as several people fight for her attention. How can she possibly be expected to wrap every relationship up neatly? She’s only human. That’s ultimately what’s so endearing about her journey, as Thirsty Suitors never demands perfection from Jala. It’s comfortable showing players a messy character who’s trying her best to juggle her complicated life. The fact that she’s able to stay standing through all of it is a small victory worth celebrating. I’m willing to extend that same compassion to an ambitious indie that dares to dream beyond its small town restrictions.
Thirsty Suitors was tested on PC and Steam Deck.
Game Reviews Product Reviews Gaming We've had a dancing game and musou spinoff, but now the Persona 5 cast has entered the realm of tactics with Persona 5 Tactica. The translation feels obvious when you think about it, but naturally, there have to be some changes to make it fit. For fans of the original JRPG, experimenting with the new combat system will take a little getting used to, especially relearning what skills are best. This game is quite friendly to those who are not as well-versed in the genre and allows you to try out your build and completely rework it if you need to. If you've invested your GP in some skills you're unhappy with, here's how you can respec in Persona 5 Tactica.
How to respec in Persona 5 Tactica Each character has their own skill tree that you can invest your GP into for buffs and skills. The way you invest early on can make the first few hours either much more difficult or a smoother experience. If you're feeling some buyer's remorse, respecing any character is not only easy, but can be done as many times as you like at no cost.
Gaming Nintendo’s Super Mario series is so monumental to the medium of video games that you might even think of the mustachioed plumber when you hear “video games” mentioned at all. From his earliest days when he battled Donkey Kong as “Jumpman.” to his latest adventures on the Nintendo Switch, to his latest movie appearance in The Super Mario Bros. Movie, Mario has consistently been one of the greatest characters in video games. He’s such an iconic character that countless video games have had him as the star, and here we have ranked them.
For our list, we had two main criteria. First, the games have to be platformers -- either 2D or 3D. This eliminates Mario sports games, the Mario Kart series, role-playing games, and all the Mario Parties. Secondly, the games have to have Mario himself as the lead character. This eliminated Super Mario Land 3 and Super Mario World 2: Yoshi’s Island. In the end, we were left with 22 games. None of them are bad, but we did have to name a loser. We also chose to omit The Lost Levels and instead considered Super Mario Bros. 2 as the definitive second game in the series.
Gaming Rocksteady made a name for itself as one of the first teams to make a universally acclaimed superhero game with Batman: Arkham Asylum. It followed that success with two sequels, the even more beloved Batman: Arkham City and the divisive, though still fantastic Batman: Arkham Knight. Fans were left waiting to hear what this studio would tackle next. Most assumed it would be another DC property, since it is owned by Warner Bros. Games, and those suspicions turned out to be right on the money, though with a property not many would have predicted.
Suicide Squad: Kill the Justice League was given a formal announcement as the newest project from Rocksteady at the DC FanDome event in 2020. At the time, outside of the graphic novels, of course, we only had the one flop of a film based on this antihero group, so many fans were hesitant to see Rocksteady tackle this property. Now that we've gotten a few trailers and footage of gameplay, however, it has become clear that Rocksteady hasn't lost its touch. We took on this suicide mission for you and made off with all the details you need to know about Suicide Squad: Kill the Justice League.
Release date Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
