Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Upcoming Nintendo Switch Games Connect Nintendo Switch to TV Free Nintendo Switch Games Cancel Nintendo Switch Online Best Nintendo Switch Games Charge Nintendo Switch Controller Nintendo Switch Accessories Nintendo Switch Controllers Nintendo Switch vs Switch Lite Home Gaming Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? WarioWare: Move It! review: a perfect Switch launch game, six years later By Giovanni Colantonio Close $50.00 Hilarious microgames Clever stance gameplay Great use of IR sensors Strong multiplayer focus Stale structure A few gimmicky modes Lacking reasons to return WarioWare: Move It! is the best Nintendo Switch launch game that never was. Sure, the motion-controlled “microgame” collection is launching at the tail end of the console’s life span, but it’s one of the few games to really take advantage of all its unique, and underutilized, features. From minigames built around the Switch’s lightweight Joy-Cons to exceedingly clever uses of those controllers’ forgotten IR sensors, it’s the multiplayer game Nintendo needed on day one instead of 1-2-Switch.
I like to move it, move it Multiplayer madness Of course, that isn’t what happened. The WarioWare series, one that had previously been a hardware showcase for Nintendo’s more creative systems, seemed all but dead in the Switch’s early days. Meanwhile, developers struggled to make good use of the console’s features as the introduction of the Switch Lite disincentivized motion-controlled play.
 The surprise release of WarioWare: Get It Together! in 2021 would disappointingly fail to capitalize on the system’s potential, opting for a weak co-op premise instead. Only two years later, Move It feels like a course correction built to give the Switch the zany multiplayer game it always deserved.
Nintendo Switch’s weirdest launch game is getting a surprise sequel After years of wishing, Persona games are coming to Nintendo Switch The Nintendo Switch heads to Brazil three years after initial launch WarioWare: Move It! is a much-needed reset for a series that’s long struggled to hit the creative heights of its Nintendo Wii entry. A return to the physical fun of WarioWare: Smooth Moves is just what the doctor ordered, making for one last must-own Switch party game that’s not afraid to cut loose. Though it takes two steps forward, it’s a step back from Get It Together ’s most ingenious modes, leaving more space for Nintendo to perfect its wackiest series.
I like to move it, move it Despite the fact that it’s known for its unpredictable microgames, the WarioWare series runs on a surprisingly rigid formula that doesn’t change an inch in Move It (save for its tropical island theme). A two-hour story mode has players completing a gauntlet of microgames that last mere seconds and are bookended by cartoon cinematics about Wario and his pals’ vacation misadventures. There aren’t really any surprises there, as each familiar character gets their quick playlist capped off with a “boss stage.” It’s that stagnant format that perhaps explains why Nintendo spent nearly two decades struggling to reinvent the inflexible series.
The layout of the minigames isn’t as important as how they’re played, and that’s where Move It makes a change for the better. It plays like a direct sequel to the Wii’s excellent Smooth Moves , with each game built around the unique nature of the Switch’s Joy-Cons. Before each game, players are given a different stance that they need to assume. A Knight stance has players holding Joy-Cons like a sword’s hilt, while “Ba-kaw” has them holding one to their mouth like a beak and the other to their butt. That setup allows Nintendo to experiment with tons of clever two-handed motions.
Nintendo Take the Archer stance, for instance, in which I hold my arms like I’m drawing a bow. In one game, I’m using it to control a dancing couple that way, moving up and down to dip. The next minute, I’m sinking a pool ball into a pocket by lining up the shot and knocking my back hand forward. As is the case in every WarioWare game, the joy of it all comes from experiencing a microgame for the first time and scrambling to figure out what the heck you’re supposed to do as the seconds tick by. These orms turn that process into a slapstick comedy where you’re the star.
What’s especially exciting is how Move It takes full advantage of the Joy-Cons in ways few games outside of Ring Fit Adventure have. A handful of games utilize the controllers’ rarely used IR sensors to show what we’ve been missing out on all these years. “Hand Model” stance has me pointing a Joy-con at my free hand and tracking gestures as I play Rock Papers Scissors, or grab a frisbee by clamping my fingers. While there are only 10 or so IR games included, it’s enough to make me wish developers had experimented with the capable feature a bit more over the Switch’s waning life span.
It feels like Nintendo giving players one last chance to absolutely demolish their Joy-Cons before upgrading to something new.
In some ways, it almost feels like Move It only exists because the Switch is on its last legs. Some microgames let me get surprisingly reckless, providing a bit of physical catharsis after years of being careful with the lightweight controllers. One stance has me dropping my Joy-Cons (while wearing the wrist straps, of course) to deep-fry vegetables and flinging them back up into my hands when they’re done. Similarly, Pounce stance has me laying my controllers on a flat surface and yanking them up to grab a toilet plunger or save a mouse from a cat’s watchful gaze. It feels like Nintendo giving players one last chance to absolutely demolish their Joy-Cons before upgrading to something new.
All of these fun control twists do come with some downsides. Both motion-control and IR detection can be spotty, with most of my failures coming down to a camera misreading my fou- finger gesture as two. Gestures also add some significant slowdown to the central story mode, as each level includes one to three stance tutorials that drag out a very short campaign. As always, most of the fun comes when replaying playlists after the main story, as it’s more fun to chase high scores uninterrupted at increasing speeds. Even with those hiccups, I’ll take the physical fun of using my butt to pop balloons over Get It Together ’s tame character-swapping gimmick any time.
Multiplayer madness More than any game in the series, Move It finds WarioWare trying to establish itself as one of Nintendo’s mainstay multiplayer experiences. It does do with a wealth of creative modes that seem especially built for families and couples. For example, every story stage can be played in co-op, and unlockable challenge playlists have players both working together to clear games and competing in elimination modes. Pairs who play together will get more mileage out of the package than solo players.
Its bigger party game swing is housed within the multiplayer-only Party suite, which contains games built for up to four players. One is a short, simple spin on Mario Party that has players moving around a board and clearing longer, mode-specific minigames. Then there’s the two-on-two “Who’s in Control?” mode where a player on each team pretends to complete minigames alongside their partner, leaving the other team to guess who’s faking it. Modes like that offer some of the most creative multiplayer experiences the series has ever seen.
There isn’t much to come back to after getting the joke of each microgame in around five hours.
Even so, the offering still feels just a bit lacking. Cute extras like Mirror Mode, where a player turns away from the TV and has to complete games by mirroring a teammate’s movements, are fun additions that don’t rise too far above clever curiosities. What’s especially disappointing is that there’s no sign of Smooth Moves ’ defining mode: a 12-player, Wiimote-passing elimination game. That was perhaps a necessity considering that it would be a huge hassle to pass two Joy-cons and put on wrist straps between each game, but the lack of a mass-multiplayer mode does make it feel like it’ll have less legs than Smooth Moves , a game that defined casual multiplayer in the Wii generation.
For solo players, there’s even less to substantially dig into. Aside from a handful of unlockable modes (including a standout mode that has players quickly beating 20 fast games and tracking their “muscle” score), there aren’t a lot of reasons to jump in after unlocking everything. There’s a large number of bonus “poses” that players can collect by grinding out high scores in playlists, but there isn’t much to come back to after getting the joke of each microgame in around five hours.
Nintendo That’s the one area where Move It takes a disappointing step back from Get It Together.
 While that game flubbed its central gimmick, it’s one of the series’ most replayable and progression-focused entries. That’s because of a smart ecosystem where players earn coins for completing goals, spend them on gifts for characters that level them up, and use that power to compete in Wario Cup, a rotating online gauntlet. All of that felt like it was laying the right groundwork for the series’ future by giving players a better reason to chase high scores and show off their reflexes.
Move It returns to square one to nail down the fundamentals, but doesn’t quite move the series forward.
That’s perhaps more of an existential concern in a game where I use my butt to draw letters in space. Even if I don’t get much more time out of it, WarioWare: Move It! provides the same jolt of unpredictable comedy that’s kept me coming back to the series since its very first Game Boy Advance entry.
 I’ll always tune in long enough to unlock every microgame and see what bizarre, gross-out heights the creative minds behind it have dreamed up this time. Whether I’m drilling cavities in a koala’s mouth or grabbing an eel between my thighs, Move It never ceases to entertain me.
WarioWare: Move It! was tested on a docked Nintendo Switch OLED connected to a TCL 6-Series R635.
Editors' Recommendations WarioWare: Move It! brings 200 new microgames to Switch this November Goldeneye 007 comes to Game Pass and Nintendo Switch later this week WarioWare: Get It Together! coming this year with two-player co-op Nintendo Switch year in review tells you how much time you spent playing in 2019 Bayonetta 3 still in the works, could launch on Nintendo Switch this year Game Reviews Nintendo Nintendo Switch Product Reviews Gaming Nintendo looks like it has some surprises in store for Nintendo Switch owners, as the company said that there is least one unannounced game for the hybrid console that players can look forward to in the coming months.
Nintendo provided the information during the briefing for its nine-month financial results up until December 31, for the fiscal year ending March 31. It was confirmed by Wall Street Journal's Takashi Mochizuki, who is based in Tokyo.
Gaming Dragon Quest XI: Echoes of an Elusive Age will arrive to the Nintendo Switch in 2019, at least in Japan.
Square Enix released the first teaser trailer for Dragon Quest XI S for the Nintendo Switch at the Jump Festa event in Japan. The trailer showed off Japanese language voice overs, which was not available when the RPG was originally released in Japan on July 2017 for the PlayStation 4 and Nintendo 3DS.
Gaming We've had a dancing game and musou spinoff, but now the Persona 5 cast has entered the realm of tactics with Persona 5 Tactica. The translation feels obvious when you think about it, but naturally, there have to be some changes to make it fit. For fans of the original JRPG, experimenting with the new combat system will take a little getting used to, especially relearning what skills are best. This game is quite friendly to those who are not as well-versed in the genre and allows you to try out your build and completely rework it if you need to. If you've invested your GP in some skills you're unhappy with, here's how you can respec in Persona 5 Tactica.
How to respec in Persona 5 Tactica Each character has their own skill tree that you can invest your GP into for buffs and skills. The way you invest early on can make the first few hours either much more difficult or a smoother experience. If you're feeling some buyer's remorse, respecing any character is not only easy, but can be done as many times as you like at no cost.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
