Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Guides The complete Xbox Play Anywhere games list By Steven Petite and Joseph Yaden Close Microsoft occupies a unique spot in the gaming space, as it’s both the default operating system for PC gamers and a powerhouse console manufacturer via its Xbox One and Xbox Series X|S family of systems. The Microsoft Store lives on both PCs, Xbox One, and Xbox Series X|S, often showcasing many of the same games.
One of the neat perks of being an Xbox user comes from the Play Anywhere initiative. A single purchase (of the digital version) grants you access to both the PC and Xbox versions of select games. Xbox Play Anywhere titles feature cross-save, achievement syncing, and in some cases, cross-platform multiplayer.
As of now, the Xbox Play Anywhere program includes a vast array of more than 150 games, including first-party exclusives from the Forza , Halo , and Gears of War series. We’ve compiled a list of every Xbox Play Anywhere title available today.
Where to find planes in Fortnite OG Microsoft is making AI game-writing tools for Xbox with Inworld AI Is Lords of the Fallen cross-platform? In order to take advantage of Play Anywhere, you do need to purchase a digital copy of the game from the Microsoft Store.
Recommended reading: The best Xbox Series X games for 2021 The best games on Xbox Game Pass for 2021 Xbox One S vs. Xbox One X Current Xbox Play Anywhere games Image used with permission by copyright holder Alphadia Genesis Dragon Quest XI S: Echoes of an Elusive Age — Definitive Edition Grounded — Game Preview Monster Train Romancing SaGa 2 The Coma 2: Vicious Sisters Alvastia Chronicles Drawngeon: Dungeons of Ink and Paper Guacamelee! 2 Moonlighter Ruiner The Falconeer Another Dawn Duke of Defense Halo Wars 2: Complete Edition Morkredd Ruinverse The Gardens Between ARK: Survival Evolved Elemental War TD Halo Wars 2: Standard Edition Mutant Year Zero: Road to Eden Rush: A DisneyPixar Adventure The Long Dark ARK: Survival Evolved Explorer’s Edition Enter The Gungeon Halo Wars: Definitive Edition New Lucky’s Tale ScourgeBringer Thimbleweed Park Asdivine Dios Eternal Card Game Harvest Moon: Mad Dash Nexoria: Dungeon Rogue Heroes Sea of Thieves Ticket to Ride Asdivine Hearts Fallout Shelter Haven Observation Seasons of the Samurai Timberman VS Asdivine Hearts II Fernz Gate Hello Neighbor One Leaves Seek Hearts Timespinner Astroneer Fishing Planet HyperDot Operencia: The Stolen Sun Sephirothic Stories Totally Accurate Battle Simulator (Game Preview) Battletoads Five Nights at Freddy’s Hypnospace Outlaw Ori and the Will of the Whisps Shantae: Risky’s Revenge — Director’s Cut Trailmakers Blacksmith of the Sand Kingdom Five Nights at Freddy’s 2 I Am the Hero Pandemic: The Boardgame She Sees Red Interactive Movie Undead Horde Blair Witch Five Nights at Freddy’s 3 It Lurks Below PC Building Simulator Silence – The Whispered World 2 UnderMine Celeste Five Nights at Freddy’s 4 Jeopardy! PlayShow Phantasy Star Online 2 SiNKR Unto the End Children of Morta Football Manager 2021 Xbox Edition Johnny Rocket Phantom Dust SiNKR 2 Vambrace: Cold Soul Chronus Arc Forza Horizon 4 Expansions Bundle Kid Tripp Pinball FX3 Sisters Royale: Five Sisters Under Fire Voodoo Vince: Remastered Cinders Forza Horizon 4 Standard Edition Killer Instinct Pinball FX3 — Jurassic World Pinball Solitaire 3D War Theatre Clan N Forza Horizon 4 Ultimate Add-Ons Bundle Killer Instinct: Definitive Edition Pinball FX3 — Marvel Pinball Season 1 Bundle Spacelords Wasteland 2: Director’s Cut Crackdown 3 Forza Horizon 4 Ultimate Edition Knights and Bikes Power Rangers: Battle for the Grid Spiritfarer Wasteland Remastered Crawlers and Brawlers Forza Motorsport 7 Standard Edition Levelhead Project Winter State of Decay 2: Juggernaut Edition We Happy Few Crystal Ortha Forza Motorsport 7 Ultimate Edition Liege Dragon Quest Hunter Streets of Rage 4 When the Past was Around Cuphead Full Metal Furies Lonely Mountains: Downhill Raining Blobs Subnautica Wizards of Brandel Day of the Tentacle Remastered Full Throttle Remastered Mars Power Industries Deluxe Realpolitiks New Power Summer in Mara Yakuza: Like a Dragon Deep Rock Galactic Galaxy Control: Arena Marvel vs. Capcom: Infinite ReCore Swordbreaker The Game Yakuza: Like a Dragon Hero Edition Descenders Gears 5 Marvel vs. Capcom: Infinite — Deluxe Edition Resident Evil 7 Tacoma Yakuza: Like a Dragon Legendary Hero Edition Disneyland Adventures Gears 5 Game of the Year Edition Mecho Wars: Desert Ashes Resident Evil 7 Gold Edition Tauronos Yonder: The Cloud Catcher Chronicles Don’t Starve: Giant Edition Gears of War 4 Middle-earth: Shadow of War Revenant Dogma Tetris Effect: Connected Zoo Tycoon: Ultimate Animal Collection Doodle God: Crime City Gears Tactics Middle-earth: Shadow of War Definitive Edition Riptide GP: Renegade The Bard’s Tale IV: Director’s Cut Dragon Lapis Goetia Midin Tower Riverbond The Bard’s Tale Trilogy Editors' Recommendations The best Xbox Series X exclusives One of the best games of the year is finally coming to Xbox next month All upcoming Xbox Series X games: 2023, 2024 and beyond A field-of-view slider headlines Starfield’s latest update Cuphead is getting a free Xbox and Windows exclusive anniversary update Microsoft Xbox Xbox One Gaming After an uneven console cycle with the Xbox One, Microsoft's latest consoles are aimed at getting the ship back on course. The Xbox Series X is a next-generation powerhouse that rivals gaming PCs, while the Xbox Series S is an affordable stopgap for those who are curious about trying new games.
There's no shortage of games to play on either console thanks to Xbox Game Pass, which gives players immediate access to a library of titles old and new. That built-in catalog is an extra value on top of all the new games available on the system that take advantage of its impressive technical specs. When it comes to first-party exclusives, the Series X is still growing. Halo Infinite and Forza Horizon 5 gave a good boost to the console's library following a somewhat sparse first year. More games are also on the way. Microsoft's Bethesda acquisition will bring exclusives like Starfield and the potential addition of all Activision Blizzard games would further bolster that list, but the console's real strength lies in third-party support.
Gaming As the Xbox Game Pass program has grown, so has our list of the best games on Xbox Game Pass. After the launch of the Xbox Series X, Microsoft has doubled down on Game Pass, now offering well over 350 games on the console alone. To help you through option paralysis, we rounded up the top games on Microsoft's subscription platform.
Many titles are available across Xbox and PC, and some of them even have cross-save support. Most of the games are available for streaming on mobile too, as long as you have Game Pass Ultimate. The Game Pass library is also constantly changing, so check out our monthly guide for addition and removal announcements.
Gaming Head of Xbox Phil Spencer has finally commented on the massive Xbox leak that happened earlier today. In his public statement, he explained that "so much has changed" since many of the documents were created and asked fans to be excited about Xbox's future.
On Tuesday morning, unredacted versions of a lot of documents pertaining to the Xbox vs. FTC trial appeared. These emails and documents, most of which were created or written sometime between 2020 and 2022, revealed a lot of unannounced information. That included things like a mid-gen refresh for the Xbox Series X and S, some unannounced Bethesda games, and even Microsoft's early goals for its next-generation console. Hours later, Spencer commented on the leak.
"We've seen the conversation around old emails and documents," Spencer explained on X (formerly known as Twitter). "It is hard to see our team's work shared in this way because so much has changed and there's so much to be excited about right now, and in the future. We will share the real plans when we are ready." https://twitter.com/XboxP3/status/1704233222752571842 At first, people didn't know where the leak came from, with the FTC quickly denying that it leaked these things. Ultimately, United States District Judge Jacqueline Scott Corley revealed that Microsoft had done it to itself while trying to provide the court with a secure cloud link to relevant exhibits for the trial. The Verge went on to report that Phil Spencer also sent out a memo internally about the leaks today, echoing the statements in his tweet.
"Today, several documents submitted in the court proceedings related to our proposed acquisition of Activision Blizzard were unintentionally disclosed. I know this is disappointing, even if many of the documents are well over a year old and our plans have evolved," Spencer's memo reads. "I also know we all take the confidentiality of our plans and our partners’ information very seriously. This leak obviously is not us living up to that expectation. We will learn from what happened and be better going forward. We all put incredible amounts of passion and energy into our work, and this is never how we want that hard work to be shared with the community. That said, there’s so much more to be excited about, and when we’re ready, we’ll share the real plans with our players. In closing, I appreciate all of the work that you pour into Team Xbox to surprise and delight our players." The fact that Microsoft did this to itself is an embarrassing accident, especially when some of the information contained within the documents and emails is no longer accurate. For now, all we can do is wait and see if Microsoft will actually release new versions of its Xbox Series X and S consoles next year and if games like Doom Year Zero, a sequel to Ghostwire: Tokyo, and Dishonored 3 get announced.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
