Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Reviews Call of Duty: Modern Warfare review Call of Duty: Modern Warfare proves that Infinity Ward is back By Gabe Gurwin Close $60.00 Gritty campaign is excellent Perfect mix of stealth and action Addictive competitive multiplayer Callbacks to past games will please fans Spec Ops mode is a swing and a miss Campaign ends too soon Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare ushered the series into prominence in a big way with its cinematic campaign and addictive competitive multiplayer. More recently, however, developer Infinity Ward has become a weak link in Activision’s roster of studios, failing to deliver worthwhile changes in its last two games.
Check those corners! Just one more game Microtransactions Our take These transgressions can be forgiven with Call of Duty: Modern Warfare , which manages to blend story elements and characters from Modern Warfare’s past with smart changes to gunplay and a massive multiplayer mode akin to Battlefield’s. Its ideas don’t always work, particularly when it comes to cooperative play, but Call of Duty: Modern Warfare lands more headshots than it misses.
The best Call of Duty games, ranked How to fix packet burst in Modern Warfare 3 Modern Warfare 3 Zombies: tips and tricks for MWZ Check those corners! Call of Duty: Modern Warfare acts as a reboot of sorts. Characters from the previous trilogy appear, but not as the same person they were in another timeline. A few previous events even appear to have still taken place. Make no mistake though – Call of Duty: Modern Warfare isn’t interested in retelling stories. It takes a much darker and more grounded approach to warfare than its predecessors. Nuclear explosions are replaced by levels where you play as a prisoner being waterboarded, or an SAS officer caught in a suicide attack that kills innocent civilians.
Though there are a few moments that push the boundaries of good taste, such as having you use a terrorist’s family as leverage, Infinity Ward’s new take on modern warfare is largely successful. Captain John Price, despite having a different voice actor, remains an entertaining character. The freedom fighter Farah Karim gives us an opportunity to see the conflict from the viewpoint of a Urikstanian freedom fighter, rather than the American and British troops we’ve almost always seen in the past.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Present-day missions are broken up by flashback sequences, which help to give more context to Farah’s struggles as well as the seemingly endless conflict that has engulfed the fictional country of Urzikstan. This includes her relationship with a particularly sadistic Russian commander, though he does come across as a bit of an evil caricature. Other villains, including one who could play a bigger role in a sequel, feel more like real people with clear, believable motivations.
Previous Infinity Ward games, particularly Call of Duty 4 , expertly blended quiet, precise stealth with all-out chaos, and the studio clearly hasn’t lost its touch after all these years. Several of Modern Warfare ’s best campaign moments involve silently entering the bottom of a building, popping off a few rounds into enemies, and moving up before their squad even knows what happened. Eventually, you’ll be discovered and have to “go loud,” prompting you to blast incoming targets with assault rifles, pistols, shotguns, grenades, unmanned drones, or Molotov cocktails.
What makes Modern Warfare so impressive is that you’re never left wondering when the next moment of quiet or all-out chaos will occur. The campaign spreads them out evenly. The only crime Modern Warfare ’s campaign commits is a premature end, as themes such as the negative impact of Western foreign policy are mentioned, but not fully explored by the time the credits roll.
Just one more game Call of Duty: Infinite Warfare ’s competitive multiplayer was an overwhelming mess of ideas that didn’t understand why people liked the series in the first place. Infinity Ward clearly learned from these mistakes, as Modern Warfare not only delivers excellent moment-to-moment gunplay between players, but also introduces several new modes that play to the series’ strengths.
Classics like Team Deathmatch and Domination remain, and the maps available at launch offer many places to maneuver around your enemies, plan ambushes, or escape when things get dire. Being able to reload your weapon while aiming means you always have full situational awareness, and paying attention to footsteps has never been more important for locating enemies before they locate you.
Killstreaks feel less powerful, too, so you’re less likely to throw your controller in rage because an enemy killed you with an airstrike from halfway across the map.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The new modes introduced in Modern Warfare feel right at home, too. Cyber Attack is a tense race to destroy an enemy objective via a central device, and the multi-round Gunfight levels the playing field in two-versus-two battle that gives everyone the same loadout.
Modern Warfare has plenty of challenges and optional missions to complete, so you’re unlocking new gear the whole time. The only thing that might interrupt your play is a crash. On Xbox One X , players have been experienced full console crashes at launch. It happened to me right in the middle of a match.
By far the largest addition to competitive multiplayer is Ground War. It’s essentially Call of Duty’s take on the Battlefield staple Conquest. Up to 32 players on each side battle for possession of several key locations on an enormous map, complete with vehicles like armored personnel carriers and helicopters.
The new modes introduced in Modern Warfare feel right at home.
Mixing a game mode like this with traditional Call of Duty weapons and kill-streaks shouldn’t work so well, but it just does , and crafting the perfect loadout to help your team adds another element of strategy.
One component of Call of Duty: Modern Warfare that isn’t so successful is the Spec Ops cooperative mode. Split across multiple missions and taking place after the campaign, Spec Ops is set in semi-open environments and tasks you with completing several different objectives as a team.
Image used with permission by copyright holder These include things like hacking terminals and rescuing high-value targets, and there are a ton of enemies thrown at you regardless of the situation. We encountered some bugs with characters occasionally not appearing, but our main issue with Spec Ops came down to pacing.
Running across giant environments and fighting waves upon waves of enemies just doesn’t feel like Call of Duty. It was ambitious for Infinity Ward to try something wholly different from the campaign, and I was thankful that it wasn’t yet another Zombies mode, but Spec Ops just doesn’t fit with the rest of the game.
Microtransactions Activision plans to support Call of Duty: Modern Warfare with a battle pass that will give players challenges and additional items. There won’t be any loot boxes , and all the goods you can unlock will be known in advance. Right now, only a $10 Call of Duty Endowment bundle is available to purchase in the store, and things like skins and emblems are all available entirely through normal play.
Want to earn a particular gun? Just meet the level requirement.
The progression system is also very straightforward, which should alleviate concerns about it being monetized later. Want to earn a particular gun? Just meet the level requirement, then use it in battle to unlock attachments and perks for it.
Be warned, however, that Activision has introduced additional micro-transactions in its games after launch. It’s possible that the company will do the same here.
Our take Infinity Ward didn’t try to just replicate the original three Modern Warfare games when developing 2019’s Call of Duty: Modern Warfare , instead making a title that invokes plenty of nostalgia while also forging its own path. The gritty and more grounded campaign and meat-and-potatoes competitive multiplayer are exactly what I’ve wanted from the series.
Is there a better alternative? No modern military shooter provides the same mix of exhilarating campaign and multiplayer action as Call of Duty: Modern Warfare.
If you do want more choices, though, check out our favorite games of 2019.
 Or if you’re on a budget, read up on our favorite free FPS games.
How long will it last? We completed the campaign in just under 6 hours. Free post-launch content should help to make the competitive multiplayer last for months, if not a full year.
Should you buy it? Yes, both if you’re nostalgic for the original Modern Warfare games or want a shooter that can keep you entertained alone and with other players.
Editors' Recommendations Best Perk-a-Colas in Modern Warfare 3 zombies, ranked The best field upgrades for Modern Warfare 3 Zombies Modern Warfare 3 Zombies: Mercenary Convoy guide Is Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3 cross-platform? How to rank up fast in Modern Warfare 3: best ways to farm XP Game Reviews Product Reviews Gaming Load your mags and get ready to go weapons hot because Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3 is so close you can nearly smell the gunpowder. The Call of Duty franchise has yet to miss a year since the original Modern Warfare, and even though this is the second Modern Warfare 3 we've had, this is obviously a completely new battlefield. Not only will the campaign wrap up the globe-trotting plotline set up in the prior two games, but you can expect the usual suite of modes, including multiplayer, zombies, and tie-ins with the hit Warzone 2. With the betas all concluded, fans are left with nothing to look forward to except the full release, but there is still a way to get ready. Here's all the intel you need on preloading Modern Warfare 3.
Modern Warfare 3 release time https://twitter.com/CallofDuty/status/1715005040677568818?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw%7Ctwcamp%5Etweetembed%7Ctwterm%5E1715005040677568818%7Ctwgr%5Ee3166103d9a3ec65e2124b036447326577ab0ccd%7Ctwcon%5Es1_&ref_url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.dbltap.com%2Fposts%2Fhow-to-pre-load-mw3-campaign-01he0egksgx8 If you have preordered Modern Warfare 3, you will get a full week of early access to the campaign starting at 10 a.m. PT on November 2 or your local equivalent. For everyone else, the game will launch on November 10. Preloading will begin starting at 10 a.m. PT on November 1.
Modern Warfare 3 file size https://twitter.com/PlaystationSize/status/1718897781488673100?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw%7Ctwcamp%5Etweetembed%7Ctwterm%5E1718897781488673100%7Ctwgr%5E3ff4d90277f3de167421839b0778535ae6502da9%7Ctwcon%5Es1_&ref_url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.ginx.tv%2Fen%2Fcall-of-duty-modern-warfare-3%2Fcampaign-early-access-preload-times-download-size Gaming It's been almost a year since last year's Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 2 was released, which means it's time for the next installment in the annual shooter franchise. This time we're completing the trilogy (again) with Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3. This entry has already generated a lot of hype among fans of the franchise for the inclusion, and return, of some highly requested features such as the mini-map and Zombies mode.
Sticking to the usual late-fall release schedule, Modern Warfare 3 will officially launch on November 10 of this year, but that doesn't mean you have to wait until then to get a taste of what's to come. If you play your cards right, you can get in on the beta to sharpen your skills before the competition.
How to access the Modern Warfare 3 beta Gaming Geoff Keighley will host his fourth Gamescom Opening Night Live ceremony today, on August 22. This showcase -- which serves as a stopgap of sorts between reveals at Summer Game Fest and The Game Awards -- helps kick off a massive European gaming convention and tends to focus on significant news and updates for games that we already know about. Gamescom Opening Night Live returns in full form this year, with a 30-minute preshow and games like Alan Wake 2, Call of Duty: Modern Warfare III, Mortal Kombat 1, and more already confirmed for the event.
It's a pretty big event to keep track of, so we've rounded up all the information you need to know about when Gamescom Opening Night Live 2023 takes place, how you can watch it, and what you should expect from it.
When is Gamescom Opening Night Live 2023 Keighley has confirmed the main show for Gamescom Opening Night Live starts today at 11 a.m. PT (Tuesday, August 22). He's also confirmed that Kyle Bosman will host a 30-minute preshow that runs before the event, so you'll actually want to tune in at 10:30 a.m. PT today if you don't want to miss anything.
How to watch Gamescom Opening Night Live 2023 You have a lot of options if you want to experience Gamescom Opening Night Live 2023. It's actually possible to buy tickets to attend the event in person. But if you don't live near Cologne, Germany, you'll have to watch digitally. You'll be able to do so on Gamescom's or The Game Awards' official YouTube and Twitch channels. We've embedded a YouTube premiere for the livestream below so you can come back to this page today at 10:30 a.m. PT to watch the event live.
gamescom Opening Night Live 2023: Tuesday, August 22 (OFFICIAL LIVESTREAM) What to expect from Gamescom Opening Night Live 2023 As usual, Keighley has already revealed a lot of what players should expect from Gamescom Opening Night Live 2023. As this is being written on August 18, the following games (and one movie) have all been confirmed to make some sort of appearance during the show, which will be hosted by Keighley and influencer Jasmin Gnu.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
