Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Reviews Forza Motorsport 7 review 'Forza Motorsport 7' is the most realistic looking game we've ever played By Daniel Starkey Close $59.99 Unparalleled car selection Dozens of tracks Looks gorgeous Driving is as tight and focused as ever Single player encourages players to experiment with new cars Showcase races delivery plenty of extra variety Twangy country-rock doesn't fit the look Potential for scummy microtransactions Racing games have run dry on ideas. There doesn’t seem to be all that much more we can do with them. You can only run a McClaren F1 through Nürburgring so many times before the thrill, novel as it once was, stagnates. Truly spectacular driving machines like the F1 or the Porsche 911 GT2 RS don’t come out all too often, either. Even when they do, no one car is enough to hinge an entire game on — much as marketers may try. At a certain point you have to ask, “is there anything left to add?” The answer, as it turns out, is quite a bit.
Forza Motorsport 7 , the newest entry of Microsoft’s tentpole racing franchise on PC and Xbox One , already has a couple of lofty records: It has more cars, more tracks, and generally more things to do than any racing game to date. In an era dominated by open world content-munchers, that might sound more exhausting than inviting, but in playing the game for our review, we discovered that Forza’s breadth is exactly what makes it special.
At this point, the core formula for the series has been refined to the point that racing in any vehicle feels incredible. What Forza 7 does then, is encourage you to break out of your mold and try cars you might not have ever given a second look. Whether it’s an open-wheeled Grand Prix legend from the 30s, a beefy racing semi, or the slickest top-end luxury car on the market, Forza 7 not only has a great set of races for each, but understands why trying so many different pedals and wheels and spoilers — each vehicle is like a puzzle unto itself, waiting for you to experiment with it.
Car Crazy There’s an absolute reverence for cars that seeps into every aspect of Forza 7.
 The series can oversell its favorite cars and tracks at times. Some of that, no doubt, comes from the huge marketing dollars companies put into the game, but it also goes out of its way to highlight how much fun can be had in both the workhorses and the status symbols, by making them all a lot easier to drive.
Microsoft’s Forza Motorsport series has repeatedly impressed, creating new features that we didn’t know we wanted, such as adding UI to help you find the perfect driving line and ghost doubles called “Drivatars” that simulate your friends’ best times. These have helped make its brand of super realistic racing — with advanced physics simulations and detailed car tuning — into something that almost anyone can enjoy.
Forza 7 ‘s specific strengths seem nebulous at first. You won’t find any innovations quite as special as the race rewind or the Drivatar here, but the focus on constantly changing cars means each race feel substantively different, and there are a thousand smaller improvements that tighten everything. Rather than death by one thousand cuts, Forza innovates with one thousand miniature upgrades.
Forza’s breadth is exactly what makes it special.
Most notable among them, is the AI, which has gotten a huge bump. Catching a computer-controlled race leader will be harder and require more strategic planning. The game’s new dynamic weather will alter not only whether a track is wet, but visibility, puddle size, etc. In longer races against tougher opponents, that can be the foundation for all sorts of strategic decisions — e.g. which corners you’ll use to make up time — and add a unique challenge on its own. It’d be nice if we didn’t lose the ability to pit souped up Mazdas against Maseratis, but it’s hardly the end of the world.
On top of that, Forza ‘s single player mode has been largely restructured. Before you do anything else, you’ll have three showcase events to complete. These are your basic tutorial and meant to give you a taste of the breadth of racing styles that await you.
Your first sprint will be in the Porsche 918 , a blazing-fast hybrid hypercar, and provide an exhilarating chase through gorgeous backgrounds modeled after the streets of Dubai. Minutes later, though, you’ll be in a hefty, sport-built semi-truck making tight corners on the Suzuka Circuit — and both feel incredible.
While the Porsche handles like a dream and rockets off the line, trucks pose their own challenges. They’re bulk makes them unstable at anything north of 50, even in a racing configuration. They also have to shift through almost a dozen gears to get up to speed. The added challenge in the heat of a race gives you plenty to do. When you’re also given tight turns to negotiate later, that 85 mph has all the grit and the thrill as 220 in a sportier auto. It’s that point where the vision of Forza starts to make sense: Every car is special and deserves to be driven in vaguely uplifting Saturday morning cartoon-y way.
Whether because the car itself feels great to drive, or through a combination of pairing the right tracks with the right vehicle, every race is amazing. There’s a genuine thrill that comes with snaking your way through other drivers, and gunning for the finish. Even more so when you know that mistakes are costly — a poorly-executed turn, could doom an otherwise clean race.
Forza also lets you rewind the game a bit, taking away the frustration that may come with screwing up a long race in the final stretch, but the challenge remains. Your goal here is to take whatever car you like on whatever sequence of races you like and do the best you can. It’s a digital playground, packed with everything from hot rods to million dollar cars. If driving is your jam, there’s no better place for it.
Gotta drive ‘em all Forza 7 has a whopping 700 vehicles to drive , and every one that we tried felt distinct. That may seem like a small point, but car variety is the primary source of challenge and progression. Unlike some previous iterations which would allow you to use the same or very similar cars for hours on end, Forza 7 ‘s single player will usher you through a structured set of races and a rotating roster of new cars to challenge your skills.
Image used with permission by copyright holder After the trio of tutorial races, you’ll get one car for free, selected from any of the vehicles that are compatible to use for your first batch of challenges. After that, you’ll need to race to earn credits, which you can use to buy more cars, compete in more races, and complete the cycle anew.
There’s an impressive array of rides available from the start, and plenty more open up for purchase as you increase your “collector” level, which scores cars based on rarity and assigns you a personal rating based on your cars. To unlock high higher-tier cars, you need to keep winning and keep buying new cars, rather than simply earning them for spending time on the track.
It’s a digital playground, packed with everything from hot rods to million dollar cars.
More than ever, this system not only pushes you to try many different cars, but also lots of different styles of racing. And it does this all without a linear slog through old, slow cars, then slightly faster ones, until you finally “level up” to the Lamborghinis and Ferraris that so often plagues racers.
More than that, Forza 7 uses that breadth to cycle through tons of creative challenges. You’ll compete against the digital recreations of real-world professionals (thanks to Turn 10’s Drivatar system), or push through a 100-mile endurance run. All in scenarios engineered to be an exciting test of a new facet of your driving ability.
By presenting a Honda Civic and a Bugatti Veyron together, with challenges tailored for each, Forza keeps play exciting and changing. You’ll have to familiarize yourself with plenty of cars, but you still get to choose which ones and when. If you like the idea of variety but you’re opposed to driving a Jeep, for whatever reason, then you won’t have to. Your game, your choices. To a point, anyway.
The More Things Change In the process of making every car competitive and capable on its own terms, Forza has, for the first time, placed some extensive restrictions on which cars are eligible to race against one another. The series has long used its own system to roughly categorize cars into broad tiers, represented by a number. The lower the value, the worse the car, with the absolute best of the best — often tuned Formula 1 legends — getting a score of 999.
In past games, you’d be able to race any Class A (between 600 and 699) against another.
Forza 7 , on the other hand, applies lots of extra limits: Not only are races locked down by tier, but also their type (late 90s sedans, for example), and what upgrades they have. And it’s that last point that’s the issue.
Image used with permission by copyright holder One of the best ways to play older Forza entries was to buy a cheap-o car, upgrade and tune the hell out of it, and compete against autos that cost thirty times more. Souping up a car, creating an inconspicuous powerhouse, had made it into the game, and you were given broad freedom to customize your car, your way.
That was, in part, what made it possible to play for hours and hours with the same car. After you moved up to a new division in Forza 4 , say, you could upgrade what you had and keep racing. In an effort to foster an appreciation for everything, that way of playing has been cut off and left behind. It’s not better or worse, but the new direction changes Forza 7.
 In the broadest sense, it feels less like of a sandbox and more of a guided tour through a museum, with different exhibits that transport you to different eras of car history. The child-like glee of running an upgrade hero through the ranks has given way to a more refined, collector’s approach.
Every car is special and deserves to be driven in vaguely uplifting Saturday morning cartoon-y way.
The only unqualified misstep is the move away from ambient electronic, which fit the series’ more upscale, showroom-vibe to a grimy country-rock score that feels very out of place next to about everything that isn’t a 4×4. In so doing it drops the tone of ethereal reverence Forza once had for its subject matter and feels oddly tamer.
Guitar riffs evoke mastery control, more so at least than airy electronica. And the twangs certainly don’t mesh too well with the clean, luxurious aesthetic Forza 7 strives to embody. Also disappointing that Microsoft dropped Forza Horizon 3 ‘s in-game music streaming, so you can’t easily play your own tracks from in-game. Still, most of the type the music plays sidekick to a cacophony of car noises, so it’s unobtrusive enough that it’s only an occasional frustration.
The new structure could also lead to a new brand of shady microtransactions, one of the series worst traits. Developer Turn 10 has already announced its plan to incorporate Tokens , a second in-game currency purchased with real money, in the near future. It will presumably be used to purchase loot crates, which give you a random assortment of consumable bonuses and quick access to gear, including rare cars.
Image used with permission by copyright holder This is common for the series, which often has an MMO-like, evolving post-release economy that can have major effects on how people play down the line. The in-game auction house also isn’t live, meaning it’s essentially impossible to swap cars with others for now.
None of these features are necessary, but it does come off as a bit scummy, particularly considering the rapid growth (and abuse) of loot crates as a financial tactic. You can use credits, which you earn from races, for loot crates as well. Some cars and cosmetic gear for your avatar are only available through these boxes. They’re also unreasonably expensive relative to what you could buy with those same credits if you just went with standard cars and upgrades.
The issue is that mods, which used to be a standard means of controlling difficulty for players, are now only available through pre-order bonuses and in-game gambling. This had earned it the fitting “pay to earn” moniker in a scathing Ars Technica report on its bizarrely exploitive approach.
Despite that, Forza 7 does offer plenty to do without having to invest extra. It has three times as many cars as some its more consumer-hostile predecessors (lookin’ at you, Forza 5 ), and, more importantly, they’re put to greater use thanks to more variety in race type and rules as well as the natural variance that comes with tracks and other drivers. Roll that together with vastly better AI and tons more to play with and experiment, and you have an exceptional game that succeeds in spite of one pernicious problem.
Our Take Like Forzas past, driving in Forza Motorsport 7 isn’t about any one thing. It’s not about being the fastest or the best. It’s not about winning, even: That’s the goal of this game, but you don’t have to place anywhere near the top to have a great time or earn more cars. It’s about the bizarre intersection of cars in our lives — about how they can be both works of art and pragmatic, about how they can be a symbol of the Earth’s destruction or a sign of hope through ingenuity.
Forza 7 doesn’t need to understand why we love cars, but why they’ve been and continue to be such an important — and contentious — bit of modern life. Breathless though it may be, Forza 7 can show you why cars matter, and why so many care so much about them.
Is there a better alternative? Not quite like this.
Forza 7 is the most comprehensive game of its type with more cars, more features, more tracks, and more of everything else than anything comparable today. If, however, you’re looking for something a bit more in the style of classic arcade racers like Need for Speed, last year’s Forza Horizon 3 might be a better match.
How long will it last? Forza’s main sequence of single-player races should take players more than 20 hours to complete, with dozens more waiting in additional challenges, multiplayer modes, and in collecting the cars themselves.
Should you buy it? Yes. While the move away from more customizable cars for competition, may strike a negative chord with longtime fans, Forza 7 is an excellent racing game.
Forza Motorsport 7 was reviewed on Xbox One with a review code provided by the publisher.
Editors' Recommendations Forza Motorsport is getting a reboot, but it’s not coming this year Forza Horizon 5 launches this November with Mexico setting Hades, Yakuza: Like a Dragon, and more coming to Xbox Game Pass Marvel tactics game reportedly in development from XCOM studio Turn 10 Studios bans Confederate flag in Forza Motorsport, Forza Horizon games Apple E3 Game Reviews Product Reviews News Square Enix had already released the release date for Final Fantasy 7 Remake prior to its E3 2019 showcase, but there was still plenty for the publisher and developer to share. During the showcase, Square Enix pulled back the curtain even further on the long-awaited remake and gave curious eyes a look into how the game’s combat will work.
The pre-orders that went live alongside the Final Fantasy 7 Remake release date announcement made no mention that the game would consist of multiple parts but Square Enix confirmed this in the opening moments of the showcase. The first part of the FF7 Remake will play out across two Blu-ray discs if you purchase a physical edition.It was described as the first game in the FF7 Remake project, with no mention of how many more there will be.
Gaming Final Fantasy fans were treated to a new trailer for Final Fantasy 7 Remake after listening to orchestral performances of music from the franchise on Sunday, June 9. That trailer closed with the long-awaited reveal of the game’s release date: March 3, 2020. It will launch on PlayStation 4 before any other platforms The producers of Final Fantasy 7 Remake stated in the past that the game would be released in multiple parts and, in 2016, clarified that Final Fantasy 13, 13-2, and Lightning Returns were being used as the blueprint. The trailer makes no mention of multiple parts and here’s the story synopsis from the latest press release: “Rebuilding and expanding upon the legendary RPG for today, Final Fantasy 7 Remake tells the story of a world fallen under the control of the Shinra Electric Power Company, a shadowy corporation controlling the planet’s very life force as mako energy. In the sprawling city of Midgar, an anti-Shinra organization calling themselves Avalanche have stepped up their resistance. Cloud Strife, a former member of Shinra’s elite Soldier unit now turned mercenary, lends his aid to the group, unaware of the epic adventures that await him.” There’s not a lot to discern from the summary from the press release and, while the description of the game sounds like a tiny chunk of the full Final Fantasy 7 experience, it’s not very different from the synopsis for the original game. Here’s the story summary from the PC port of FF7 on Steam: “In Midgar, a city controlled by the mega-conglomerate Shinra Inc., the No. 1 Mako Reactor has been blown up by a rebel group, Avalanche. Avalanche was secretly formed to wage a rebellion against Shinra Inc., an organization which is absorbing Mako energy, destroying the natural resources of the planet. Cloud, a former member of Shinra's elite combat force, Soldier, was involved with the bombing of the Mako Reactor. Can Cloud and Avalanche protect the planet from the huge, formidable enemy, Shinra Inc.?” A pre-order for Final Fantasy 7 Remake is live on retailer websites as well, but there’s no additional information included in the listings. Square Enix hosts its annual E3 conference later on Monday, and with the release date official, the studio likely has some other bits of new information to share.
Gaming Days Gone, the upcoming open world action game from Sony's Bend Studio, received the closing spot at the studio's 2016 E3 press conference. In a conference that included reveals of God of War and Resident Evil 7, it was clear that Sony had -- and still has -- high expectations for Days Gone. While Days Gone missed its original 2018 release window and then had its February 2019 launch date pushed back, it figures to be the biggest game arriving this April.
Days Gone looks to be a resurgence of the zombie-infested survival-horror genre, but from what we've seen, it looks like the title will deviate from the traditional zombie tropes. Here's everything we know about the forthcoming PlayStation 4 exclusive, from its characters to its settings.
A drifter in the post-apocalyptic Pacific Northwest Days Gone - E3 2018 Gameplay Demo | PlayStation Live from E3 Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
