Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Reviews ‘Forza Horizon 3’ review Need to unwind? ‘Forza Horizon 3’ might be the most chill driving game ever By Phil Hornshaw Close $59.99 Huge, beautiful world Low-stress open-world Tons of customization, from cars to races Lots of variety for a racing game Racing doesn’t always feel competitive Controller feels inaccurate sometimes One of the first things you do in Forza Horizon 3 is race a helicopter. Underneath this helicopter, hanging by cables, is a Jeep. Which you’re also racing.
Forza Horizon 3 ’s finely tuned focus is on the fun of going fast, and everything in its open-world package is built on supporting that focus. The open-world, car-packed driving series is again built around the Horizon racing and music festival, except this time, you’re the owner, chief creative director and star attraction of the show. That means you get to race a freight train while also jumping over it, among many other things. The show goes on forever, taking place across landscapes ranging from cities to the Outback to the rainforest, offering 350 cars to take you wherever it is you want to go, as fast as you want to get there.
Forza Horizon 3 ’s finely tuned focus is on the fun of going fast… That makes Forza Horizon 3 a fantastic racing game for the casual racing fan. For a player new to the series — as I am — it presents a giant pile of driving activities to dig through. Anything that might stall or bore can be instantly replaced with something else. The mandate is merely to complete: As you finish events, you earn fans, and as you earn fans, you expand the festival to open up more events. Even between races, there’s rarely a moment when Forza Horizon 3 puts any barrier between you and fun.
If you want a more intense racing experience, though, you can create one — right down to setting up your own courses and challenges for yourself and friends. If you want tougher competition, you can head online. And if you just want to do donuts through city streets and crash through open bodies of water, there’s plenty of opportunity.
Forza Horizon 3 is very much a game in which you get out what you put in.
Drive everything, everywhere There isn’t any one thing that Forza Horizon 3 does that makes it really stand out. We’ve had open-world driving games for a while now, to say nothing of two previous Horizon games, and the formula of vast maps full of a variety of events works as well now as it ever has. But in putting together tons of little things, Forza Horizon 3 creates an extremely easy going, accessible racing world. The whole becomes greater than its parts.
For the start, the open world is littered with things to do, but they’re doled out slowly. The Horizon festival starts in one place, with a few events scattered around it, along with one-off “PR Stunts” — jumps, drift challenges, speed-tracking cameras. Completing any of these earns players money to buy new cars, along with experience points that provide player progression by unlocking a variety of perks. Win over enough fans and you can expand the festival to a new location, or increase the size of an existing one, unlocking more events.
Actually completing events is also presented in a quick, easy way. You drive to the spot for a race, hit the go button, and you’re racing. In the actual event, Forza gives you your racing line and your rewind feature, allowing you to see the ideal way to play the course and to undo costly mistakes. If you want to add more challenge, you can turn those off. If you don’t like how you placed, you can run the race again, or buy a new car to try a different tact.
You can also yank in up to four friends to play through all these races and events, allowing you to turn the open-world gameplay of driving around finding stuff and completing things into a team effort. Everything you discover in co-op (and in the competitive online Adventure mode) gets tracked back in your single-player game, making playing online an extremely easy way to add a new dimension to your game with low hassle.
Forza Horizon 3 creates an extremely easy going, accessible racing world.
Even the hunt for the game’s huge number of collectibles is tuned to be fun without grating. If you sight, say, a destructible billboard that earns you an experience bonus for driving through it, it’s added to your world map, even if you didn’t actually find and mark it yourself. Recruitable “drivatars” — AI cars based on players on your friend list — pop up periodically on your map for you to chase down and race, as do “Barn Finds,” spiffy classic cars hidden out in the landscape.
Forza Horizon 3’ s developers want you to go out and explore its world, but they recognize that world is enormous. Nobody wants you to get bored or frustrated as you plow through jungle or cover vast stretches of desert searching for little collectibles or things to do. There’s even an unlockable “drone mode” that lets you fly around the world map, marking collectibles and the like on your map.
None of these features are revolutionary. Race lines are nothing new. Rewinding to avoid crashes isn’t a fresh idea. Seamlessly jumping between online and offline modes hasn’t just been invented. But Forza Horizon 3 gathers all those good ideas together and tweaks them just enough to make for an incredibly chill driving experience.
The pros and cons of ‘casual’ In fact, Forza Horizon 3 might be a little too chill.
The relaxed nature of the game makes it feel as though it pulls its punches. It’s nice to be able to bail on any event in order to play something you like better, or to race off from one end of Australia to the other doing nothing but screwing around and crashing into things, but the game also could be said to lack much drive in pushing the player forward. You start the game as the greatest thing ever, and everyone says so.
And while Forza Horizon 3 provides you with tons to do, it lacks the structure necessary to help you get good at anything. Fresh to the Forza series, I felt like I was a terrible driver in Forza Horizon 3 for hours upon hours. Despite that, I wasn’t punished. If a challenge was hard, I could just move to something else. It never felt like I was gaining much in the way of skill.
Forza Horizon 3 is great for providing lots of low-pressure driving variety, but it’s not so great at fostering a sense of competition.
Conclusion Still, Forza Horizon 3 gets the fun of driving, and everything from the DJs on the radio to the construction of the world is focused on the tone of having a really enjoyable time in a vehicle.
The Forza franchise was built from the start around the concept of enjoying cars without the hassle of actually owning them.
Forza Horizon 3 nails that, creating an extremely strong open-world driving game that goes far out of its way to provide variety and volume.
Some players may want a more extreme, realistic take on racing, and so they might want to look elsewhere — but then again, Forza Horizon 3 offers so many ways to customize, and such a breadth of player-created content, that it’s likely you can tune the game to be whatever you want.
And if you don’t feel like tuning, well, that’s okay too. Just pick a direction. And drive! Editors' Recommendations Dishonored 3: release date window, rumors, and more Baldur’s Gate 3 drops Series S splitscreen support to release on Xbox in 2023 Forza Motorsport is getting a reboot, but it’s not coming this year Forza Horizon 5 is getting sign language support tomorrow How to fast travel in Forza Horizon 5 Cars Apple Game Reviews Microsoft Product Reviews Xbox Xbox One Gaming Forza Horizon 5 is a stunning game. With its brilliant gameplay and detailed visuals, we called Forza Horizon 5 “the definitive racing game of the new console cycle” in our review. There is a lot you can do, and it can seem intimidating at first. That’s why we’ve put together this beginner’s guide to Forza Horizon 5.
Further reading Computing The Forza franchise has always been known for its graphical quality, and the most recent release, Forza Horizon 5, is no different. It's a show-stopping game, but to achieve the best frame rate and performance on your PC, you'll need the best settings for Forza Horizon 5.
You don't have to change much to get Forza Horizon 5 performing well, and almost regardless of your settings, the game looks great. We're going to run through the best settings we found through testing, as well as what performance you can expect when you boot up the game.
The best settings for Forza Horizon 5 Gaming Forza Horizon 5 has finally hit consoles and computers for all users (and is available on Game Pass for those with subscriptions), so racers ready for the latest racing experience can enjoy some truly impressive graphics and customization options. One of the things we love about Forza is how friendly its various Tours and racing matches are, from trying out different competitive modes to joining a team and making your way through a world tour together. Keep in mind that Horizon 5 also includes Kudos and Gift Drops to share with the community, so teamplay is a core aspect for many gaming modes.
Players looking to team up are probably wondering about crossplay options and how well the game supports finding other racers. So let’s run down the common questions about Horizon 5 crossplay and what you should know when planning your gaming sessions.
Does Forza Horizon 5 support cross-platform play? Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
