Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Reviews ‘Forza Horizon 4’ review From Lambos in the snow to drifting Bugattis, all is fair in 'Forza Horizon 4' By Stirling Matheson Close $59.99 Seasons add great variety to game play Beautifully rendered world and cars Tons of customization A long list of activates to keep you entertained Driving feels approachable, but still rewards skill Some side events can be tedious Multiplayer can still jump in and ruin your races The Forza Horizon formula is clear now: give people an open-world racing game with approachability, some real driving dynamics, good variety, and lots of fun. This iteration adds seasons and keeps pushing replay value. It’s a fast, fun, action-packed racing game that fans can keep playing for, well, seasons.
The only open-world racing game that matters Loot boxes don’t spoil the fun Our Take The only open-world racing game that matters Forza Horizon’s take on racing games is inherently attractive and in many ways without competition. Most driving games with open world freedom have such a tepid driving experience that any real skill is wasted. On the other hand, most games that reward skill stick you on a race track with strict rules and never let you mess around. Horizon rewards good driving, silly driving, and wild driving, and lets you pick whichever you prefer.
In proper Forza style, the game kicks off with a moment of beautifully rendered glory that puts you in the car on the front of the package. This time, it’s with a twist. You’re racing in the glorious McLaren Senna on a sunny day, but then the game cycles through season, giving you a taste of a rally car in the autumn mud, an overland truck in the winter snow, and then back to flying down a dry road in the Senna. It’s a simple trick that sets up expectations for the game very nicely. It makes you want to get that Senna back.
After the intro you’re offered a choice of cars, which is mostly up to personal preference, although the Focus RS might be a wise option given how easily is can be tuned for road racing or rally. Speaking of which, it’s easy to get lost in acquiring more cars — one you shouldn’t forget to tune your existing cars. Find one you like and spend some CR (Forzish for money) on it. It’s easy to race a car a few times, figure out where you tend to exceed its limitations, and then make a few quick fixes to suit your car better to you. Trust us, you’ll win more.
Playing the events is fun, customizing and collecting cars is fun, ad-hoc street racing with other people is fun, and just driving around enjoying the spectacular graphics and exciting setting is fun.
Then it’s out into the pre-season game, which is populated with bots and exists for you to find your footing. The goal is to get enough points to qualify for the first season, which is Autumn. You get points by doing virtually anything fun. You get points for participating in road races, rally races, overland races, illegal street races, and special Top Gear- style showcase events, and then you get more points for winning them. Then you can get points for jumping off things, general hooning, stunt driving, knocking over signs with points written on them, breaking things, going fast, getting cars, tuning cars, finding cars in barns, and much more. Everything you do in game progresses you, nothing sets you back, and everything is repeatable. There’s no pressure.
That’s fine, because Forza Horizon is about freedom. Freedom from game limitations, freedom from the consequences of poorly piloting a motor vehicle, freedom from laws. This is a game where you can buy a castle, put rally tires on a Bugatti Chiron, and then do laps drifting in the dirt with your insane hypercar around your castle. You can drive a ten million dollar 1968 Alfa Romeo Tipo 33 Stradale in a riverbed — and be rewarded for it. Have fun putting a huge engine, AWD, and racing tires in a Abarth 695 Biposto and challenging Paganis to street races.
Then – and here’s the genuinely new part – you can go back and try the same stuff again in a different season. Mud, rain, snow, and clear days all change your approach, and adding new variation to the same list of events. Many races will make you want different cars based on the season. Road races in powerful RWD supercars like a McLaren P1 are a lot harder on an icy road than in an AWD Lambo that can recover from a Scandinavian flick around a hairpin by clawing at the ground with four tires. It’s worth trying each event in each season; some that might not have been as enjoyable in one condition might be great with different weather.
You can drive a $10M 1968 Alfa Romeo Tipo 33 Stradale in a riverbed and get rewarded for it.
The game’s physics, which are largely lifted from the much more straight-laced Forza Motorsport series, are toned down a tad to make the game more approachable. Hardcore sim racers will think it feels a bit like an arcade game, but casual arcade racers may think it feels like a sim. It won’t wear you down or punish you for tiny mistakes like a true sim will, but it still rewards good technique, and you need to use your brakes instead of trying to powerslide through each turn.
The only things that weren’t fun were a bug in which all in-game, but not in-menu sound, muted itself. We had to delete our game files entirely to fix it.
Loot boxes don’t spoil the fun The Forza franchise has offered annoying microtransactions in past versions, but they’ve gone away for Forza Horizon 4.
 Some randomized rewards still exist, but you can bypass them with real money.
Our Take Forza Horizon 4 has always focused on fun over realism, and it’s successful. The events are fun, customizing and collecting cars is fun, ad-hoc street racing with other people is fun, and driving around enjoying the spectacular graphics and exciting setting is fun. It’s the perfect racing game for the vast majority of gamers. Even for race sim fans, it’s going to be a delightful diversion for tired people who just can’t be bothered to focus hard and be very serious. Sometimes it’s better to try to jump over a building in a 1968 VW Beetle.
Is there a better alternative? There are games that simulate driving better, and there are games that are more fantastical in their approach, but nothing really straddles the line like this.
How long will it last? Horizon came out in 2012, Horizon 2 in 2014, and Horizon 3 in 2016, so we’d wager that this is going to get be replaced by a new version in 2020. Until then, it’ll definitely keep you busy.
Should you buy it? If you like driving games, you’ll get enjoyment out of this game. Just set the difficulty how you want it, and have at it.
Editors' Recommendations Is Baldur’s Gate 3 coming to Xbox? Resident Evil 4: all Blue Medallion locations Where to get the Red9 in Resident Evil 4 Diablo 4 beta rewards: how to earn all titles and cosmetics You can still get a Thunder Shotgun in Fortnite Chapter 4 Season 2. Here’s how Apple E3 Game Reviews Microsoft Microsoft Windows Product Reviews Windows 10 Xbox Xbox One Gaming A new trailer for the Forza Motorsport reboot was shown during the Xbox and Bethesda Showcase 2022, giving us a closer look at the game in action, as well as a release window. The reboot, simply titled Forza Motorsport, will launch for Xbox consoles and PC in spring 2023.
Check out the latest trailer below! Gaming Microsoft's previously promised sign language support for Forza Horizon 5 is about to arrive in a huge step forward for accessibility in games. The Xbox giant partnered with Forza developer Playground Games and the Deaf and hard of hearing community to create video subtitles for players.
The free updates arrives March 1 and includes American Sign Language (ASL) and British Sign Language (BSL) support for over 300 in-game cinematics. While accessibility options and resources have become more common in AAA games in recent years, sign language support is still very rare.
Gaming OlliOlli World is easy to pick up and play. At its core, players just press one button to push themselves forward and move the left stick to perform tricks. Still, it has a high skill ceiling thanks to its deep move pool and scoring system. As OlliOlli World tracks scores and features multiplayer leagues where players can compare them, some important tips will give players the edge over the competition.
This game gives back as much as players put into it. So whether it comes to move variation, challenges, or the routes taken in levels, there's a lot to sink into even after players beat OlliOlli World's six-hour campaign. Keep these four tips in mind, and you'll be at the top of those leaderboards and have the best time experiencing one of February 2022's best games.
OlliOlli World – Official Cinematic Trailer ESRB You can pull off every trick from the start OlliOlli World drip-feeds mechanics and new tricks to players through tutorials. It'll even teach players new things in the final world. Despite that, all of the player's moves are usable from the start of the game. While some early levels might not have rail grinding or wall riding, players can still pull off grabs, manuals, and other more complicated tricks from the get-go. Those who played the first two OlliOlli games can jump right in, and might even appreciate that a level run doesn't end if they don't land correctly.
Of course, new players probably won't pull off advanced tweaks and manuals from the start, but OlliOlli World naturally gives players ample time and space to learn these moves. Those that want to maximize their score totals on early game levels should take a look at the Tricktionary, OlliOlli World's move list glossary, in the game's main menu and discover all the cool moves that players can pull off as soon as they start.
Don't use the same trick over and over again Players going for the top spots on leaderboards or playing score-based side missions need to keep this in mind. If a player repeats a trick during a combo, they'll get fewer points than they did the first time. Players will want to build combos by constantly linking different moves together between grinds, wall rides, and manuals to get a big high score. Varying up movements also makes the game feel more refreshing and fun as a deeper appreciation is gained for OlliOlli World's easy to pick up but hard to master gameplay.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
