Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Reviews Gears 5 review: A much-needed win for Xbox A more mature Gears 5 returns the series to its former glory By Gabe Gurwin Close $59.99 Dark, twist-filled campaign Classic Gears of War combat Jack is a great companion Escape is perfect for aggressive players Open areas add variety Microtransactions don't belong Only human allies for Escape With its innovative cover mechanics and brutal chainsaw-equipped Lancer rifle, the Gears of War franchise revolutionized the third-person shooter when it launched in 2006. Its sequel debuted the massively influential Horde mode, but subsequent games haven’t had the same appeal of the original two. After years of iterating on the same basic ideas, story beats, and modes, however, the franchise has returned to its former glory with Gears 5.
 Featuring a gripping and often terrifying campaign, the return of Horde mode, vicious multiplayer, and an all-new cooperative experience that will have level creators salivating, Gears 5 adds up to one of the best games on Xbox One , and will make the year-long wait for Project Scarlett much more bearable.
Are we the baddies? No, these are the baddies Great made greater Escape the Swarm Visiting our friend Michael Transaction Our take Are we the baddies? Gears 5 begins shortly after the events of Gears of War 4 , which saw new hero JD Fenix reunite with his father Marcus in order to combat the Swarm threatening the planet Sera. However, the story this time around is not JD’s, but his squadmate Kait Diaz’s, who has begun experiencing bizarre and violent visions that suggest she has some connection to the Swarm and their Locust predecessors. These visions and her erratic behavior have left JD unwilling to trust her, resulting in further tension in a group already on edge after an incident involving protestors. It’s hardly the chest-thumping, us-versus-them machismo we expect from the series, but it showcases how the games have continued to evolve as the real world has changed.
Where to find planes in Fortnite OG Microsoft is making AI game-writing tools for Xbox with Inworld AI PS5 slim vs. PS5: everything you need to know about the new PS5 model It showcases how the games have continued to evolve as the real world has changed.
Civilians call Kait and partner Del “fascists” for the collateral damage the Coalition of Ordered governments has caused through its powerful Hammer of Dawn weapon, and continued revelations about the origin of COG’s enemies suggest there are always two sides to a story. The campaign’s most engaging moments, whether they be quiet emotional conversations or gigantic battles, are bolstered by brilliant performances from the cast. Chief among them is Laura Bailey, who provides Kait with a sense of empathy and terror that has rarely been so expertly portrayed in the medium.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Changes to tone aside, Gears 5 still keeps its best asset – the third-person combat – fully intact, and with a few additions to make it feel fresh. Kait and her comrades make their way through industrial buildings, icy wastelands, red deserts, and burnt-out streets, hiding behind waist-high cover and obliterating the Swarm and robotic enemies they encounter with everything from Lancers to the EMBAR railgun. It remains as satisfying as ever, with heads exploding from well-placed shots in a mess of gore and squishy noises.
No, these are the baddies The variety of enemies you face, including “Flocks” of Swarm flying like the Sentinel horde in The Matrix , force you to displace and change up your strategy often. But you also have a another tool at your disposal to help out in these situations: Jack. A robotic drone companion, the flying helper can be controlled by A.I. or another player, and provides assistance during battles and in reaching new areas. If there is ammunition in the distance or a new weapon on top of a shelf, Jack can bring it to your location. He can also stun or damage enemies, and even freeze them solid so they can be shattered by a headshot. It seems like a silly gimmick to put the companion this front-and-center at first, but Jack is an integral part of Gears 5 ’s campaign, and your strategies will always involve using him properly. Whether it’s to boost your health before a fight or shock a group of enemies with an electrical trap – he’s always around to help.
Perhaps the largest change in Gears 5 compared to Gears of War 4 is the size of its world. It’s not an open-world game since you will not return to previous areas after you’ve completed chapters, but the individual maps that make up the campaign are massive. You traverse much of them on a wind-sail vehicle called a “Skiff,” and as you approach primary objectives, you’ll come across side content that offers additional insight into the state of Sera, as well as opportunities to upgrade Jack. If you want to blow these off and continue on with the story, you totally can, but none of it feels like filler. As a matter of fact, the battles you must endure are among the toughest of the game, especially the encounters with the club-wielding Warden, a mighty foe who’s capable of turning you into a mist of red in mere seconds.
Gears 5 ’s campaign remains just one part of a much bigger whole, and its other components live up to its high standard. Competitive multiplayer has arguably been changed the least since Gears of War 4 , but it was also that game’s most successful mode. Across game types like Team Deathmatch and the respawn-limiting Dodgeball and Guardian, you and a small group of teammates push up and flank enemies using the same types of weapons and abilities you have in the campaign. Sneaking up behind a target and slicing them in half with a Lancer feels just as good as ever, and those who stick with their teammates will have the most success. As any longtime Gears of War fan knows, even the best players are no match for three enemies.
Great made greater Gears 5 ’s multiplayer maps are exceptional for competitive battles, offering balanced layouts with plenty of opportunities for flanking and ambushes. They don’t blend together, either, with various settings including an asylum, an icy tundra, and a reclaimed barnyard. Mastering them will give you the advantage over your opponents, but they aren’t so complex that it would deter newcomers from playing, too.
Gears 5 ’s multiplayer maps are exceptional for competitive battles.
These maps also work swimmingly for Horde mode, which has been altered to encourage more aggressive and proactive play than in the past. The basic formula remains intact: Place down the Fabricator box and defend yourself against waves of enemies while planting barriers and turrets. Unlike in the previous games, you no longer want to stay in the same spot all game. Special Power Taps sprout up every ten rounds, and securing them will supply your squad with more currency to use on barriers or your own characters. This requires communication, as players can easily get separated when going after them, though this does also lead to Gears 5 ’s Horde mode not being ideal for lone wolves. You can play it alone, but the computer-controlled teammates you’re given don’t do much other than shoot and revive you.
Progression in Horde mode is split into two main categories: Perks and Skill Cards. The former are boosts that you can acquire through the same Power currency you use in each match, while the latter are doled out as you level up your characters between matches. It’s a system that can get a little bit confusing for those used to classic Horde, especially since you can also upgrade Skill Cards to further improve their effects, but it does radically change how each character plays. If you want one character to excel in melee combat, you can equip special knife Skill Cards that boost damage, while another character can focus on improving your team’s score. There is no right or wrong way to do it, and in my experience, experimentation is encouraged.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Alongside the Perks and Skill Cards, each character also has an Ultimate Ability similar to those in Overwatch.
 These are also unique to each character and include things like a rocket barrage from the sky or a bubble shield. Though they won’t massively influence the course of a match, they are useful for dealing with particularly tough moments, especially when you also have Jack by your side – yes, the little robot pal is also controllable in Horde.
Escape the Swarm Despite the alterations, Horde is still a defensive mode at heart. For those more interested in bringing the fight to the Swarm, the new Escape mode is what you’ll want to play. The premise is silly in very Gears of War fashion, with a COG specialist intentionally getting swallowed and sent to a Swarm hive in order to plant a venom bomb and destroy the entire thing.
There’s a certain Super Mario Maker quality to Escape.
What this means for you is a race to find the exit while killing the enemies you see along the way, and it’s much easier said than done. There are four maps currently available to choose from, each with their own system of corridors and safe rooms that you can use to restock your supplies. Failing to clear an area will lead to a huge number of enemies chasing you, and sloppy play can easily result in you having no ammunition. This is truer if you attempt, stupidly, to try Escape on your own. The mode is designed for co-op, and though we managed to complete a map by ourselves, it’s clear that you should have at least one person by your side. Playing Escape mode cooperatively with a friend is also significantly more fun. Without friends, Escape does not scale down its enemy count or fill your squad with AI characters, meaning lone wolves will not really be able to enjoy the mode to its fullest.
Image used with permission by copyright holder There’s a certain Super Mario Maker quality to Escape, as odd as that sounds. Enemies will always be in the same spots when you restart an area, and your strategy for facing them can amount to muscle memory. There is also a complete level creation tool for Escape, where you can choose everything from room layout and enemies to the placement of weapons. You must beat your creations before they can be uploaded for others to play, as well, which should discourage sadists.
Visiting our friend Michael Transaction As with nearly every game Microsoft publishes nowadays, Gears 5 does feature microtransactions, and they take a few different forms. Certain skins and other cosmetic gear can be purchased directly with real money, or using an “Iron” premium currency. As of this writing, the prices for Iron haven’t been revealed yet, but a bundle containing 19 legendary skins for characters and weapons, as well as one banner, mark, and bloodspray, is available for $20. Boosts that double your experience can also be purchased using Iron. Nothing affecting gameplay, including Skill Cards, can be purchased for real money. Though we’d prefer for no microtransactions to be present in a $60 game, the decision to limit them to cosmetic items will at least leave everyone on an even playing field.
Our take Gears of War 4 saw The Coalition faithfully tracing from the established Gears of War formula.
Gears 5 , on the other hand, shows the studio is ready to draw. A more engaging and emotional campaign introduces features we hope to see in all subsequent games, and the addition of Escape gives more aggressive players more reasons to keep coming back. Though Horde mode’s different upgrades can get a little unwieldy and we could do without the microtransactions, this is the best version of Gears of War we’ve played in years.
Is there a better alternative? No.
Gears 5 is among the best console-exclusive games on Xbox One, period. It innovates in both its gameplay additions and its psychological-thriller story, while its closest competitor Gears of War 4 merely iterated on classic franchise ideas.
How long will it last? You can tackle the campaign in about 10 hours. Horde, competitive multiplayer and Escape mode can all extend your playtime for months.
Should you buy it? Yes, even if you weren’t the biggest fan of Gears of War 4.
 The improvements here are substantial.
Editors' Recommendations The best Xbox Series X exclusives The new 1TB PS5 has more usable storage space than the Xbox Series X All upcoming Xbox Series X games: 2023, 2024 and beyond One of the year’s best reviewed games is coming to Xbox Game Pass Will Starfield come to PS5? Action Games Game Reviews Microsoft Product Reviews Xbox Xbox One Gaming Head of Xbox Phil Spencer has finally commented on the massive Xbox leak that happened earlier today. In his public statement, he explained that "so much has changed" since many of the documents were created and asked fans to be excited about Xbox's future.
On Tuesday morning, unredacted versions of a lot of documents pertaining to the Xbox vs. FTC trial appeared. These emails and documents, most of which were created or written sometime between 2020 and 2022, revealed a lot of unannounced information. That included things like a mid-gen refresh for the Xbox Series X and S, some unannounced Bethesda games, and even Microsoft's early goals for its next-generation console. Hours later, Spencer commented on the leak.
"We've seen the conversation around old emails and documents," Spencer explained on X (formerly known as Twitter). "It is hard to see our team's work shared in this way because so much has changed and there's so much to be excited about right now, and in the future. We will share the real plans when we are ready." https://twitter.com/XboxP3/status/1704233222752571842 At first, people didn't know where the leak came from, with the FTC quickly denying that it leaked these things. Ultimately, United States District Judge Jacqueline Scott Corley revealed that Microsoft had done it to itself while trying to provide the court with a secure cloud link to relevant exhibits for the trial. The Verge went on to report that Phil Spencer also sent out a memo internally about the leaks today, echoing the statements in his tweet.
"Today, several documents submitted in the court proceedings related to our proposed acquisition of Activision Blizzard were unintentionally disclosed. I know this is disappointing, even if many of the documents are well over a year old and our plans have evolved," Spencer's memo reads. "I also know we all take the confidentiality of our plans and our partners’ information very seriously. This leak obviously is not us living up to that expectation. We will learn from what happened and be better going forward. We all put incredible amounts of passion and energy into our work, and this is never how we want that hard work to be shared with the community. That said, there’s so much more to be excited about, and when we’re ready, we’ll share the real plans with our players. In closing, I appreciate all of the work that you pour into Team Xbox to surprise and delight our players." The fact that Microsoft did this to itself is an embarrassing accident, especially when some of the information contained within the documents and emails is no longer accurate. For now, all we can do is wait and see if Microsoft will actually release new versions of its Xbox Series X and S consoles next year and if games like Doom Year Zero, a sequel to Ghostwire: Tokyo, and Dishonored 3 get announced.
Gaming The Xbox One has been officially discontinued, but that doesn't mean it's unattainable. If you prefer the console over the new Xbox Series X and Xbox Series S, you can still buy refurbished units from retailers like Amazon. With its expansive library of games that will keep both casual and hardcore players busy for a long time, the Xbox One remains a meaningful purchase, despite Microsoft's rollout of its new generation of consoles. While it struggled against Sony's PlayStation 4 due to a rocky launch in 2013 because of a limited selection of titles and a higher price tag, the Xbox One gracefully recovered. Helping it bounce back were console exclusives from the Halo, Forza, and Gears of War series. If you're planning to buy the Xbox One to enjoy video game deals on these exclusive titles, as well as popular cross-platform games like Assassin's Creed Valhalla, Cyberpunk 2077, Call of Duty: Black Ops Cold War, and Red Dead Redemption 2, we've gathered the best Xbox One deals available online to help you in your search.
Another important characteristic of the Xbox One is its fantastic multimedia capabilities, with the Xbox One S being one of the most affordable 4K media players available on the market. The Xbox One S and the more powerful Xbox One X both boast a 4K Blu-ray player, a feature that isn't found in the PlayStation 4 Pro. For gamers who also want the option to watch their favorite movies and TV shows in crisp 4K from their console, the Xbox One is the machine for you.
Xbox One deals Gaming As part of the massive Xbox leak that came as part of its FTC trial, we got a look at Microsoft's road map for Xbox through 2030. One slide of this presentation outlines the kinds of hardware possible for Microsoft to make (and not make) itself. Most notably, Microsoft states in this document that making a dedicated Xbox handheld is "not in scope for first party." Microsoft has been an avid supporter of devices like the Logitech G Cloud Gaming Handheld and ROG Ally with Xbox Cloud Gaming, but it was still quite surprising that the company never aimed to release a handheld that competed with those and Nintendo Switch itself. Now, we know that as far back as this May 2022 roadmap, Microsoft did not believe it currently has the resources and scope to make a Handheld.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
