Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Gaming Reviews ‘Halo Wars 2’ review Simple yet frantic, ‘Halo Wars 2’ is the Michael Bay film of real-time strategy By Michael Rougeau Close $59.99 Scratches the Halo itch Engaging campaign missions Interface gets creative on console Plenty of multi-player modes Control issues with Xbox gamepad Doesn't feel as deep as other RTS titles Blitz mode includes micro-transactions When the Halo universe is done right, it can be a really fun place in which to play, whether it’s in the form of a first-person shooter, a novel, a cartoon, or a real-time-strategy (RTS) game like Halo Wars 2.
 And in Halo Wars 2 , Halo is done right — if far from perfectly.
The game itself is structured similarly to a main series Halo game, with about ten hours of story content spread throughout 12 missions and explosive cinematic cutscenes to tell the story in between. Captain Cutter, the Spirit of Fire’s commander, and other characters (including a female AI construct) keep the chatter up throughout missions. A variety of multiplayer options, including campaign co-op and the new Blitz mode, round things out and add replay value.
The best traits to level first in Remnant 2 Ubisoft’s Star Wars Outlaws stars a cunning hero seeking a new life All perks in Star Wars Jedi: Survivor All in all, Halo Wars 2 feels like a Halo game in many ways — arguably more than some games from the main series, such as Halo 4 and Halo 5: Guardians.
 However, it is not a Halo game in the way that matters most: It isn’t an accessible shooter, but a much more complex real-time-strategy game. And as a console-first game, it operates within some limitations (like the Xbox One controller) that can make it frustrating for newcomers or strategy veterans alike.
Tales of grandeur The Halo series’ signature faux-epic sci-fi, with its rampant Biblical metaphors and cheesy hoo-rah attitude, is in full force in Halo Wars 2.
Halo Wars 2 feels like a Halo game – arguably more than some games from the main series.
This sequel picks up the story of the Spirit at Dawn, a UNSC (United Nations Space Command) colony ship whose occupants have been frozen for 28 years. During that time, a lot went down in the Halo -verse, including the events of the original trilogy, up through Halo 3.
The Spirit of Fire’s occupants wake up after 28 years of cryo-sleep to find their colony ship floating above the Ark, a key location from Halo 3.
 They send some Spartans — not the Master Chief, but some of the series’ other, more rarely seen super-soldiers — down to the surface, where they encounter a powerful Brute leader, Atriox, and a terrified AI construct, Isabel.
They learn that Atriox is the leader of a powerful rebel army — the only such ever to stand up to the alien Covenant from within and succeed. The Covenant and humanity are more or less at peace after the events of Halo 3 , so this rebellion retcon gives Halo Wars 2 a good narrative excuse to throw familiar Halo enemies like grunts, brutes and elites at players instead of the newer, far less interesting foes seen in Halo 4 and Halo 5.
That’s the story. Atriox and the human forces battle for control of the Ark, and the fate of the galaxy hangs in the balance, as it always does in a Halo game.
Moving parts Halo Wars 2 is more complex than its predecessor, but still operates within some limitations — on Xbox One, you use a controller instead of a mouse and keyboard, which presents some problems. Elsewhere the game is simply held back by some small, but meaningful design choices.
Some missions start you off with just a handful of units, tasking you with fending off some enemies or navigating to a specific point before you can start building. But every mission involves constructing at least one base and often several mini-bases, all at pre-set locations, then deciding exactly what to build on the limited plots around that base and managing your resources accordingly.
A typical scenario might go something like this: You spawn with a few units and fight your way to the location of a base. After building the main building you start with a couple of supply pads and a power station to continuously generate resources, then send some units out to collect resources around the map and scout out other potential base locations. Then you build a barracks, garage, and/or air pad, and start cranking out units, hoping you’ve balanced resource generation and unit production craftily enough to build up your power by the time the battle really starts.
While the mechanics of playing the game seem basic, there are systems upon systems that affect what you need to build, and how you need to fight if you want have the advantage. The vast number of different unit types all have their own upgrade paths, such as giving marines grenades and rocket launchers to use. Your headquarters need to be upgraded to make better units, and you can purchase “leader powers” like air support and healing drones.
On top standard stats, there’s a rock-paper-scissors strength/weakness system ruling every battle: Vehicle units are strong against infantry; infantry is strong against air; and air is strong against ground vehicles. However, there are exceptions to that, too, such as the special anti-air warthog jeeps.
Tracking and directing all these moving parts is simply too difficult with the controls and interface on Xbox One. Developer Creative Assembly did a pretty good job, given that RTS games have never matched well with the limited number of buttons on a controller. Despite a valiant effort, you’ll find yourself frustrated at certain limitations when the battle really starts to take off.
For example, Marines can be upgraded to throw grenades. To use them, you have to select your marines and press “Y.” That’s fine when you’re managing a single team with a small number of units, but when your forces are numerous and diverse, just finding your marines can be a pain.
You can pull up a clumsy unit list that spreads across the bottom of the screen, pulling the right trigger continuously until you land on your marine units (and needing to send the cursor all the way back around the list if you go past them). Or you can locate one marine unit on the map and double-tap A to select all units of that type, then direct them to throw their grenades — though if your forces are divided into multiple groups, this will pull marine units from all over the board, which isn’t ideal.
That’s to say nothing of units with more complicated extra abilities. Kodiak ground tanks can hunker down at your command to fire powerful mortar volleys at distant targets, which sounds great until you direct all your forces to move but forget to tell the kodiaks to switch back to mobile mode, leaving them stranded around the map.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Cycling between different units on the map involves haphazardly jamming on a d-pad button until you get the ones you want, or manually dividing them into separate “armies” using a complex system that involves holding the right trigger and tapping, holding and double-tapping various d-pad directions. There’s not even a global unit list you can pull up to see everything you have on the board, and without the ability to zoom in on it, your mini map is of limited utility.
None of this is to say Halo Wars 2 is by any means unplayable on Xbox One. But it often works in spite of, not thanks to, these control and interface systems.
War never changes Thankfully, Creative Assembly nixed its plan for crossplay between Xbox One and PC, meaning most anyone you play against online will be under the same limitations as you. And Halo Wars 2 provides a large toolbox to keep the basic mechanics of fighting against other players interesting for a long time.
You can set up custom matches that include both friends and AI opponents or teammates, taking control of human and alien armies with various leaders that have different powers. The rulesets are flexible too, with game types like domination and deathmatch, all of which have sliders to change match parameters like score, time, and resources. It’s even possible to play matches with unlimited resources to see who can simply go nuts and build the craziest army first.
You’ll find yourself frustrated when the battle takes off.
The most novel (and divisive) of these modes is the card-game/RTS hybrid, “blitz,” where you summon units based on a hand of cards that can be played at any time (granted you have enough energy). You compete with others to capture points around the map. Card packs are, of course, available to purchase for real money, so whether you’ll even try the mode out will depend on your stomach for microtransactions (though the game does seem to provide free card packs at a decent pace, especially your first time through the campaign). Luckily, there are enough more traditional modes that you can ignore this whole in-game economy if it doesn’t suit you.
It may be in playing against friends that you find the most chaotic joy, especially as you pay close attention to one another’s styles across multiple matches. Your opponent is obliterating your ground troops with vehicles? Take a gamble on the next match and funnel all your resources into maintaining a giant air fleet that soars around the map raining death. Maybe they’ll fall for it, or maybe you’ll learn another new tactic from them. But it’s in friendly duels that Halo Wars 2 transcends those rock-paper-scissors and starts to feel a little more like chess.
Our Take Halo Wars 2 doesn’t always work thanks to limitations of the controls and issues with the interface, but it’s a decent real-time strategy game and great fun for Halo fans.
Is there a better alternative? There’s no shortage of real-time-strategy games on PC: Even if you’re bored with the obvious ( Starcraft II ), there are plenty of great ones, including new games like Homeworld: Deserts of Kharak, and older gems like Company of Heroes 2.
On Xbox One, Halo Wars 2 is about as good as you’re going to get.
If you’re coming to the game because you’re a die-hard Halo fan, Halo Wars 2 has plenty of lore to get excited about.
How long will it last? It should take about 12 hours for most players to beat the campaign on normal, but there’s a huge amount of replayability in the forms of harder difficulty levels, challenges and optional objectives, and online campaign co-op. Plus, a range of multiplayer modes and options will keep deliver new challenges until you get tired of the game.
Should you buy it? If you’re looking for the best real-time strategy game on the market, look elsewhere. But if you want a solid Halo game with some surprisingly complex strategy gameplay, and can look past its flaws.
Halo Wars 2 may be worth your time.
Editors' Recommendations S.T.A.L.K.E.R 2: Heart of Chornobyl: release date predictions, trailers, gameplay Senua’s Saga: Hellblade 2’s new trailer is frighteningly immersive The Outer Worlds 2: release date speculation, trailer, and more All lightsaber stances in Star Wars Jedi: Survivor Star Wars Jedi: Survivor is being review-bombed on Steam as a ‘total crap’ PC port Computing Game Reviews Microsoft Microsoft Windows Product Reviews Xbox Xbox One Gaming From endless hordes of Empire goons to hulking Rancors that can crush you in one or two hits, there are no doubt a lot of things to be afraid of in EA's new action-adventure sequel Star Wars Jedi: Survivor. However, if one of your fears happens to be spiders, developer Respawn has got you covered with an arachnophobia toggle that completely removes spiders from the game.
Survivor's Arachnophobia Safe Mode ensures that players who aren't particularly fond of eight-legged creepy-crawlies will never have to engage with any spiders that might crawl their way on-screen partway through the campaign. It's an unexpected addition to a game that is otherwise filled to the brim with strange and unsettling creatures to observe and fight, but spiders no doubt have a special way of freaking some of us out. Many folks are certain to appreciate seeing a choice to avoid arachnids altogether when they find themselves scrolling through the game's suite of accessibility options.
Gaming Given how impressive Hellblade: Senua's Sacrifice was, it seemed inevitable that there would be a sequel. The game, despite being made independently by Ninja Theory, blew even the highest-budget games on the market out of the water in terms of graphical fidelity and storytelling. Microsoft must have realized this potential as well and outright purchased the studio to not only provide a bigger budget to the team for the eventual sequel, but also tosecure it as a console exclusive for its then-unreleased Xbox Series X and S systems.
Senua's Saga: Hellblade 2 was one of the earliest games shown off for the Xbox Series X and S, and was even initially thought to be one of the system's launch titles. That didn't come to pass, but the team has taken that extra time to craft this sequel into something that looks to be even more impressive than the original. Between the first Game Awards event where the game was announced and the latest footage we've seen, we have a very solid understanding of the important details surrounding this sequel. We have all the information you need to know about Senua's Saga: Hellblade 2.
Release date Gaming Fortnite has received plenty of exciting new weapons in Chapter 4 Season 2, and in typical fashion, Epic has also vaulted some of last season's weapons to clean up the loot pool. Among the weapons vaulted for Season 2 is the Thunder Shotgun -- but weirdly, it can still be obtained, as it appears Epic possibly overlooked one NPC who drops it.
Anyone who wants to score the Thunder Shotgun in Season 2 can head over to Frenzy Fields and look for the NPC named Sunflower who walks around the farm. Simply eliminate her and pick up the weapon she drops. It's unclear if this is actually something Epic missed, or if the team just simply didn't want to bother changing up Sunflower's loot drops. Either way, it's currently the only way to obtain the Thunder Shotgun.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
