Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Guides Sims 4 cheats: all cheat codes for PC, Xbox, PS4, PS5, and more By Joseph Yaden Close The Sims franchise has been around for a while now and has become extremely successful thanks to its quirkiness and ability to rope players into its bizarre world. The most recent entry, The Sims 4 , launched in 2014 and has continued the series’ legacy, giving players a refined way to create a Sim, along with adding a hefty list of quality-of-life improvements. When you’re ready to goof off and get even crazier, you might want to dive into the game’s expansive selection of cheats, which grant you the ability to do all sorts of things, including a way to increase your stats, gain unlimited money, and negate (or cause) death.
How enable cheats on Sims 4 What is the money cheat in Sims 4? Build Mode cheats Stat cheats Pregnancy cheats Relationship cheats Negate (or cause) death cheats Motive cheats Career advancement cheats Cheat codes in video games are mostly a relic of the past, but The Sims 4 still puts them at the forefront. There are dozens upon dozens of cheats. In this list, we’ll share the absolute best ones, ranging from the most useful to the silliest, and everything in between. These are the best Sims 4 cheats.
How enable cheats on Sims 4 Image used with permission by copyright holder In The Sims 4 , you can’t simply just type in a cheat code and expect it to work. It’s a complicated game in many regards, and using cheats requires a bit of explanation before diving in. For starters, you must enable the ability to use cheats in-game. Depending on your platform, there are slight differences in going about enabling them.
The new 1TB PS5 has more usable storage space than the Xbox Series X All upcoming PS5 games: 2023, 2024, and beyond Best PS5 deals: Cheapest prices and all the PS5 bundles you can buy On PC, you’ll need to hold Ctrl + Shift + C ( Command + Shift + C on Mac) to open up the cheat console. Once here, you’ll need to type in testingcheats on in the cheat console. Doing so will allow you to enter cheats. You’ll need to type them in exactly as written to get them to work. To disable cheats, type in testingcheats off in the same box.
To reach the cheat console on PS4 and Xbox One, you’ll need to press all shoulder and trigger buttons simultaneously. On PS4 or Ps5 , it’s L1 , R1 , L2 , R2, and on Xbox One or Xbox Series X , it’s LB , RB , LT , RT.
 After you press them all at the same time, the cheat console will appear and you’ll follow the same steps as above to enable cheats. Type in testingcheats on to gain the ability to type in cheats. Note that enabling cheats on a console will negate the ability to earn most trophies and achievements, so use them wisely.
Cheats are used by typing in specific codes into the same cheat console. You’ll receive a notification when you’ve typed in the code correctly, and it’ll tell you which code you’ve enabled.
What is the money cheat in Sims 4? Image used with permission by copyright holder You can’t go wrong with instantaneously acquiring money in The Sims 4.
 Fortunately, there are a few different cheat codes you can use to make sure you never run out of cash. Type the following codes in the cheat console to earn instant money: rosebud – 1,000 simoleons kaching – 1,000 simoleons motherlode – 50,000 simoleons Money [amount] : Sets the active household’s funds to the given amount.
sims.modify_funds [+/-][amount] : Adds or subtracts the given amount of Simoleons from the active household’s funds.
Alternatively, you can type in Money # to instantly gain a specified amount of money. For example, if you want 50 simoleons, you’d type in Money 50 after enabling cheats. Do note that using this method will replace the total amount of money you have, as opposed to adding to it.
Build Mode cheats Image used with permission by copyright holder Some people focus solely on building the perfect home in The Sims 4 , and while the game gives you the tools to do this easily, cheating can make it much more enjoyable. One of the best cheats allows you to literally build anywhere, while other cheats give you the ability to unlock any Career Items instantly. If you’re going to be spending a lot of time building, it’s recommended to take a look at the cheats below: FreeRealEstate On – Build anywhere for free FreeRealEstate Off – Turn off building anywhere for free bb.moveobjects on – Move objects anywhere, regardless of grid placement bb.enablefreebuild – Build anywhere bb.ignoregameplayunlocksentitlement – Unlocks any locked Career Items in Build mode Using all or a combination of some of these will save you money or allow you to build anywhere, giving you much more freedom than normal.
Stat cheats Image used with permission by copyright holder The Sims 4 features a host of different stats to improve upon, from cooking to acting and fishing. While you can go about increasing these stats the long way, cheating will instantly make you an expert at whichever one you choose. Either way, you’ll want to level these stats to perform them much more effectively and efficiently.
To use them, you need to type in the following code: stats.set_skill_level [skilltype] [1-10] For example, if you want to set your Fitness to level 8, you’d type in the following: stats.set_skill_level Major_Fitness 8 Below are the list of stat-related cheats. Type these codes in, as part of the larger code listed above.
Major_Fishing Major_Mischief Major_Guitar Major_Reaping Major_Programming Major_Gardening Major_GourmetCooking Major_Comedy Major_Charisma Major_Writing Major_VideoGaming Major_Violin Major_RocketScience Major_Painting Major_Piano Major_Logic Major_Handiness Major_HomestyleCooking Major_Bartending Major_Dj Skill_Fitness Skill_Child_Social Skill_Child_Motor Skill_Child_Creativity Skill_Child_Mental Why take the time to learn piano when you can just type in a cheat code to learn the instrument instantly? Pregnancy cheats Image used with permission by copyright holder Who has time to sit through the long length of a pregnancy in The Sims 4 ? Luckily, there are a few pregnancy cheats that will speed things up tremendously. Type in the following codes in the cheat console to make a Sim pregnant up to a specific trimester: sims.add_buff buff_pregnancy_trimester1 – Make Sim or Ghost pregnant in first trimester sims.add_buff buff_pregnancy_trimester2 – Make Sim or Ghost pregnant in second trimester sims.add_buff buff_pregnancy_trimester3 – Make Sim or Ghost pregnant in third trimester sims.add_buff buff_pregnancy_inlabor – Make Sim or Ghost pregnant at term Relationship cheats Image used with permission by copyright holder In The Sims 4 , you can do your best to improve your relationship with others by talking with them and getting to know them. But frankly, that gets old fast, so why not use some cheat codes to speed things up? Whether you’re just friends or romantic partners, cheat codes can immediately max out your relationship with another Sim. Or, if you’re a masochist, you can make a Sim absolutely loathe you.
Use these cheats to manipulate your relationships with other Sims: relationships.create_friends_for_sim – New Sim is created with 100% Friendship modifyrelationship ‘entire Sim name 1’ ‘entire Sim name 2’ 100 ltr_friendship_main – 100% positive friendship between two specific Sims (you’ll need to enter a Sim’s first and last name in their respective spots in the code) modifyrelationship ‘entire Sim name 1’ ‘entire Sim name 2’ -100 ltr_friendship_main – 100% negative friendship between two specific Sims (you’ll need to enter a Sim’s first and last name in their respective spots in the code) modifyrelationship ‘entire Sim name 1’ ‘entire Sim name 2’ 100 ltr_romance_main – 100% positive romance between two specific Sims (you’ll need to enter a Sim’s first and last name in their respective spots in the code) modifyrelationship ‘entire Sim name 1’ ‘entire Sim name 2’ -100 ltr_romance_main – 100% negative romance between two specific Sims (you’ll need to enter a Sim’s first and last name in their respective spots in the code) Negate (or cause) death cheats Image used with permission by copyright holder Death can be hard to avoid in The Sims 4 — that is, unless you use some of the game’s various cheat codes to circumvent it. Or, morbid individuals might want to take advantage of some of the cheats that actually cause death, though you should use these at your discretion.
These are the various death-related cheats: death.toggle true – Sims cannot die death.toggle false – Sims can die again sims.add_buff buff_death_electrocution_warning – Sim dies from freak electrocution accident sims.add_buff buff_mortified – Sim dies from embarrassment within five hours sims.add_buff buff_motives_hunger_starving – Sim starves to death within a day Death isn’t the end of the world, as your Sim can be brought back to life. Use these death cheats for nothing more than an over-the-top laugh.
Motive cheats Image used with permission by copyright holder Not much is worse in The Sims 4 than when you’re interrupted by having to visit the bathroom, take a shower, or eat. What an annoyance. If these instances tend to get in your way, you’ll be happy to know there is a hefty list of cheats that will make your life easier. Below are the cheats that will negate any of these annoying bodily functions: sims.give_satisfaction_points ‘X’ – Gives Sim satisfaction points; type in the amount for X fillmotive motive_energy – Refill Sim energy fillmotive motive_fun – Refill Sim fun fillmotive motive_hunger – Refill Sim energy fillmotive motive_hygiene – Refill Sim hygiene fillmotive motive_social – Refill Sim social gauge sims.fill_all_commodities – Refills all Sim gauges You can refill motives individually or use the “all commodities” cheat to refill all motives.
Career advancement cheats Image used with permission by copyright holder Career goals are of paramount importance in The Sims 4 , and you’ll spend most of your game time figuring out which is best suited to you. To find a job and build a career, you’ll need to put your Sim to work and earn money. Just like in the real world, your Sim will need to invest time and energy into their career if they are going to succeed. Career choices include teacher, scientist, detective, and more. Unfortunately, getting your Sim through a job can take up a lot of time and include off-the-clock study hours.
Fortunately for us, several cheat codes can put your Sim’s career on the fast track. Different career-related cheat codes can accomplish career objectives, add in trades, and more. With the right cheats, you won’t have to put in all the time to complete a job. You can skip straight to retirement.
Here are a few of the career-related cheat codes: aspirations.complete_current_milestone – Immediately complete a current goal careers.add_career ‘x’ – Add career (‘X’ is the career you choose) careers.promote ‘x’ – Promote your Sim careers.retire ‘X’ – Give your Sim early retirement Of course, you could let your Sim work every day until retirement. But in Sim world, you don’t have to, and it’s a little bit mean to make them. Cheat codes can fast-track your Sim to the good life.
Editors' Recommendations The best PS5 exclusives The best PS5 games for 2023 PS5 slim vs. PS5: everything you need to know about the new PS5 model The best multiplayer games on the PS5 Best PlayStation deals: PS5, controllers, headsets on sale Gaming Picking a console is a big decision. They're not cheap, so unless gaming is your passion, you probably don't want to spend the cash to grab all three of the major ones. That's why we've collected the best prices on every version of the three major consoles. Below you'll find Xbox Series S and X deals, PlayStation 5 deals, and Nintendo Switch deals (on all the various versions). We've listed the best prices at the major retailers, and any deals we could find among them. Once you've grabbed your console, check out the best video games deals to go along with them.
Xbox Series S deals -- starting at $280 The Xbox Series S is the less powerful but cheaper option out of the newest generation Xbox line. When comparing the Xbox Series S versus the Xbox Series X, the Series S takes a hit in all the component categories. That means it's not quite as fast. But if you're not hung up on getting the optimal performance out of your system, you'll actually notice very few differences. The two biggest ones are the Series S's inability to play in 8K, and its lack of a disc drive. Most people don't even have 8K TVs, so that shouldn't be an issue. If you're alright with downloading all of your games straight to the console's memory (and you have a separate DVD or Blu-Ray player), the Series S will work fine. It's quite a bit smaller anyway, and easier to fit on a shelf.
Gaming Cross-platform support is becoming more important in the world of video games. Multiplayer hits like Call of Duty: Warzone 2.0 and Fortnite have pushed crossplay into the limelight, and now most AAA multiplayer games release with at least partial cross-platform support. Finding every cross-platform game is no easy feat, though, so we did the hard work to bring you a comprehensive list of games that support crossplay.
Unfortunately, there aren't any rules when it comes to crossplay, so each game handles the feature a little differently. To make matters more confusing, certain backward-compatible games on the PlayStation 5 and Xbox Series X still support crossplay on the most recent hardware, even if there isn't an official release for that hardware.
Gaming The original Red Dead Redemption is coming to two new platforms, PS4 and Nintendo Switch, later this month. It'll retail for $50 on both platforms.
Red Dead Redemption and Undead Nightmare Coming to Switch and PS4 Rockstar Games' open-world western game first launched in 2010 for Xbox 360 and PS3. It was critically acclaimed and a smash sales hit, creating a new franchise for Rockstar that could stand alongside the likes of Grand Theft Auto. It received a sequel, Red Dead Redemption 2, in 2019, but the original Red Dead Redemption remained stuck on older platforms outside of backward compatibility support on Xbox One and Xbox Series X/S.
That's why fans got excited when a rating for the game from the Game Rating and Administration Committee of Korea popped up. We've now learned that this rating is for new Nintendo Switch and PS4 ports of Red Dead Redemption by Double Eleven Studios. Red Dead Redemption will release across both of those platforms digitally on August 17, with a physical launch to follow on October 13.
It will cost $50 and includes the base campaign as well as the zombie-infested Undead Nightmare expansion; the Red Dead Online multiplayer is not included. This is the first time Red Dead Redemption will ever be on a Nintendo system, although it doesn't look like the port will have much in the way of Switch-exclusive features. That said, a press release does reveal that this will be the first version of the game to include Brazilian Portuguese, Korean, Latin American Spanish, Polish, Russian, Simplified Chinese, and Traditional Chinese localizations.
Red Dead Redemption comes out on PS4 and Nintendo Switch on August 17.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
