Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Best PS5 SSD Black Friday deals: Add more storage to your PS5 now By Aaron Mamiit Close Digital Trends If you’re running out of storage space on your PS5, don’t miss the discounts that you can get from Black Friday deals for an internal SSD for the console. The original PlayStation 5 comes with a 825GB hard drive but only 667GB is usable, while the new model features a 1TB hard drive with about 842GB that’s usable. That may look like a lot, but with the space that the best PS5 games take plus all your save data and screenshots, that much storage will get used up quickly. Fortunately, there are savings that you can pocket from buying a PS5 SSD during Black Friday from retailers like Amazon, Best Buy, and Walmart, but as with all the other PS5 Black Friday deals happening now, you need to act fast because stocks may run out soon. If you like to switch between consoles or carry your save games on the go, consider browsing the best Black Friday external hard drive deals.
Best PS5 SSD Black Friday deal More PS5 SSD Black Friday deals we love Best PS5 SSD Black Friday deal Western Digital The WD_BLACK SN850X internal SSD, which was made for compatibility with the PlayStation 5, will add 1TB of extra storage space to the console, so you’ll be able to install even more PS5 games. The internal SSD offers speeds of up to 7,300 MB/s, which will allow it to keep up with the performance of the console, and with the WD_BLACK Dashboard, you’ll be able to monitor its health. It also comes with a built-in heatsink to make sure that it doesn’t overheat even when you’ve been playing for hours. Right now, the 1TB WD_BLACK SN850X internal SSD, originally priced at $180, is down to just $85 from Amazon for Black Friday, for savings of $95.
More PS5 SSD Black Friday deals we love SeaGate There are many other options for PS5 SSDs that are available with discounts for Black Friday, with some of them made by the most trusted brands in the digital storage industry like Samsung and Seagate. All of them offer built-in heatsinks, and are designed to work with the PlayStation 5 so you won’t have to worry about compatibility issues. Feel free to choose from the list below, but if something catches your eye, complete the purchase immediately because the bargain may disappear at any moment.
Silicon Power XS70 2TB — Samsung 980 Pro 2TB — Samsung 990 Pro 2TB — Seagate Game Drive 2TB — Seagate FireCuda 530 2TB — WD_BLACK SN850P 2TB — Adata XPG Gammix S70 Blade 4TB — Editors' Recommendations 75 best Amazon Black Friday deals on laptops, TVs, Apple, and more Best Lenovo laptop Black Friday deals: Chromebooks, gaming laptops, and more Walmart Black Friday deals: The best offers you can shop now The brand new PS5 ‘Slim’ is already discounted PS5 Black Friday deals: consoles, games, and accessories Deals Amazon Sony Sony PlayStation Sony PlayStation 5 Gaming You're here. I'm here. We're all here for the best Black Friday deals, which, unsurprisingly, have dropped earlier than ever this year. At this rate, there's no reason to wait around for the official Black Friday and Cyber Week events. Plus, retailers tend to increase the prices ahead of those shopping events, so the discounts aren't as good as expected. If you're ready to grab a new Xbox Series X, then you'll want to listen up. We've searched across the interwebs, looking at all the different retailers, to find some of the best prices and discounts. We've found quite a few, and not just on the console, but also games, accessories, and more. While you're at it, there are also some fantastic Black Friday Xbox Series S deals looped into Microsoft Black Friday deals. Let's do this.
Best Xbox Series X Black Friday deals Some of the best Xbox Series X Black Friday deals include bundles with games. It's worth noting that when you buy the console, normally, it does not come with any games. This is an excellent opportunity to take it right home, set it up, and dive into a game. Here are the deals we found: Gaming While the Xbox Series S got a bad reputation when it first came out, the last year or two have really shown where it shines. For those who have older TVs and monitors that run 1080p, the Xbox Series S is a budget-friendly way for folks to play the latest games. And sure, it might not be able to hit 4k and high resolutions, but so many console games are locked to 60hz and sometimes struggle with 4k graphics, so the Xbox Series S is doing quite well overall. Luckily, there are many great Black Friday deals you can grab for the Xbox Series S, especially if you're looking for a game or accessory. Chief among them Black Friday Series X deals, too.
Best Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Unfortunately, there aren't a lot of deals available for the Xbox Series S right now, which is surprising given how close we're getting to Black Friday and all the other deals we've been seeing. Even so, there is a deal where you can get Xbox Game Pass Ultimate for free, so that's worth picking up if you plan to buy the Xbox Series S. There are some more Black Friday PS5 deals out there if you're willing to switch consoles (or want both in your arsenal).
Gaming The Black Friday and Cyber Week deals have dropped, earlier than ever this year it seems. Retailers are ready to get this thing started, but that's good news for you -- all of us, really -- because the competition means we're going to see some fantastically-low prices this year. While everyone else is shopping the best Black Friday deals for TVs, computers, smart home goods, and more, some of us are on the lookout for great gaming console deals, specifically on the Nintendo Switch. If that's you, listen up, because we've scoured the shopping world for some truly amazing Nintendo Switch Black Friday deals, some you can even shop as early as today. We've found deals on the console itself, including bundles, popular games, and even some accessories. So, put down that gamepad, kick up your feet, and let's get ready to grind out some levels.
The best Nintendo Switch Black Friday deals Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
