Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Upcoming PS5 Games PlayStation Plus Best PS5 Games Connect PS5 Controller to PC Best PS5 Headsets How to Turn Off PS5 Free PS5 Games Xbox Series X vs PS5 PS5 Voice Commands Home Audio / Video Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Sony Black Friday deals: PS5, TVs, headphones, soundbars, and more By Briley Kenney Close From the PlayStation 5 and the new PlayStation Portal handheld to its immersive BRAVIA TVs, Sony is one of the best in the entertainment and consumer electronics business. So, it stands to reason that during the holiday shopping season, including Black Friday and Cyber Week, most people would be looking out for some of the best deals and discounts from the brand. We are too, and that’s precisely why we’ve put together this guide that gathers up all the best Sony Black Friday deals in one, convenient place. Grab your remote and let’s go.
Best Sony TV Black Friday deals Best Sony PS5 Black Friday deals Best Sony Soundbar Black Friday deals Best Sony Headphone Black Friday deals One thing this guide doesn’t address is Sony Camera Black Friday deals , so if you’re looking for photography discounts, check that out too.
Best Sony TV Black Friday deals Sony Let’s start with the elephant in the room, or shall we say the largest panels in the room — Sony’s excellent TVs. Bear in mind, while we’ve collected a few of the best offers, you’ll always find a more comprehensive list of the best Sony TV Black Friday deals in our primary guide.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
Without further ado, here are our top picks for the best Sony TV deals you can shop right now: 55-inch Sony Class X77L LED 4k smart Google TV — 65-inch X80K 4K LED smart Google TV — 65-inch BRAVIA XR X90L LED 4K smart Google TV — 77-inch Sony BRAVIA XR A80L OLED 4K smart Google TV — 85-inch BRAVIA XR X93L Mini-LED 4K smart Google TV — Best Sony PS5 Black Friday deals Giovanni Colantonio / Digital Trends Again, you’ll find a comprehensive list of the best PS5 Black Friday deals in our primary guide. Here, we’re calling out a handful of our top picks: PlayStation 5 Slim (Disc) with Call of Duty: Modern Warfare III — PlayStation 5 (Disc) with Marvel’s Spider-Man 2 — PS5 DualSense wireless controller (several colors) — PlayStation 5 games — Best Sony Soundbar Black Friday deals Sony / Sony Soundbar and surround system will help you complete your home theater to create the ultimate immersive experience. During Sony’s Black Friday deals it’s the best time to buy and upgrade your setup. The proof is in the tweeters, below: Sony HT-S400 2.1-channel soundbar with wireless subwoofer — Sony HT-S2000 compact 3.1-channel soundbar — Sony HTA3000 3.1-channel soundbar — Sony HT-A7000 7.1.2-channel soundbar — Sony HT-A9 7.1-channel high-performance home theater system — Best Sony Headphone Black Friday deals Sony Headphones are great if you want to take the music, podcasts, and media to a more personal level, whether on your run, during your commute, or just during some downtime while you’re snuggling up on the couch. Here are the best Sony headphone Black Friday deals: Sony MDREX14AP in-ear headphones — Sony MDR-ZX110 stereo wired headphones — Sony WF-C700N truly wireless noise-canceling earbuds — Sony WHRF400 RF wireless headphones — Sony WH-CH710N wireless over-ear noise-canceling headphones — Sony WH-1000XM4 wireless over-ear noise-canceling headphones — Sony WF-1000XM5 truly wireless Bluetooth noise-canceling earbuds — Editors' Recommendations This Samsung 77-inch OLED TV is $1,600 off for Black Friday 75 best Amazon Black Friday deals on laptops, TVs, Apple, and more Google Pixel Black Friday deals: Pixel 8, Pixel Watch, Pixel Buds and more Best Buy Black Friday TV deals: Save on LG, Samsung, Sony, and more Best Buy Black Friday deals: 12 best offers you can shop now Deals Sony Sony PlayStation Sony PlayStation 5 Audio / Video Black Friday deals present the perfect time to buy a new TV. Retailers are discounting home theater equipment by the truckload, and Amazon is no exception. We've pulled the best Black Friday HD TV and 4K TV deals, if you're primarily looking for something cheap, and QLED and OLED TV deals if you're ready to upgrade your home theater to the next level. All of these deals are at Amazon, but they include deals from several brands, such as Samsung, LG, Vizio, TCL, and more.
Amazon Black Friday HDTV deals Not all content needs to be 4K. Sometimes a 1080p TV will do just fine, especially if it's on the smaller side. These are some of the best HD TV deals from brands like Amazon Fire, TCL, Insignia and Vizio. These will work great in a spare bedroom, garage, or kitchen, but consider opting for 4K if this is going to be your main home theater system. A lot of these options are small, but if you're looking specifically for a tiny TV, check 32-inch TV Black Friday deals.
Audio / Video Amazon's Fire TV is one of the most popular streaming platforms, and it's available as a built-in operating system in the retailer's own TVs or as a replacement through the brand's streaming devices. If you're interested, you shouldn't miss the Black Friday deals from Amazon, as there's huge discounts that are available for the shopping holiday. Whether you're planning to buy a new TV, or you want to access the platform on your current TV, there's an offer out there for you -- but you have to hurry because we're not sure how long stocks will last.
Best Fire TV Black Friday deals The simplest way to get Fire TV is to buy a TV that's powered by the platform, and Amazon has its own line of TVs that ships with the operating system -- through there are other brands that also load their TVs with it. You'll be able to access all of the popular streaming services such as Amazon Prime Video and Netflix, and you can use voice commands for functions such as controlling playback and searching for content through Amazon's Alexa. The deals below include options at various sizes, including 65-inch TV Black Friday deals and 32-inch TV Black Friday deals. You have to act fast if you've got an eye on any of these Amazon Fire TV Black Friday deals though, as they may expire at any moment.
Audio / Video Black Friday is here, earlier than ever this year. Retailers are starting to shower the interwebs with early Black Friday deals, discounts, and promotions galore. Now is really one of the best times of the year to capitalize on those huge savings, whether you need a new smart TV, a new laptop, a game console, or just about anything else, even if they're not electronics. As for your home theater setup, if you're looking to upgrade your TV to a 4K, 8K, or just a better set, have we got some offers for you.
Sony Black Friday deals include some great offers in OLED TV Black Friday deals and QLED TV Black Friday deals, so check those out below, then pair your new display with one of the best Black Friday soundbar deals or a gaming console with PS5 Black Friday deals. We've rounded up all of the best Sony TV Black Friday deals we could find on a host of models and styles. The smallest TV in this article is 43-inches, so check out the best 32-inch TV Black Friday deals if you need a mini option.
Best Sony TV Black Friday deals on 4K TVs Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
