Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Reviews Xbox Series S review: Impressive but not worth it in the long run By Tom Caswell Close $299.00 Incredibly portable Good price Great design Not worth the savings Not enough storage The Xbox Series S is an incredible piece of engineering in many ways. Next-gen features such as instant loading in an incredibly compact and affordably priced device certainly help it fill a niche in the market that is not being met by the more expensive PlayStation 5 or the severely underpowered Nintendo Switch.
The Series S is initially a showstopper The differences in visual quality are noticeable Only a handful of people should pick up the Series S Our take Despite the things I like about the Series S, however, I can’t help but feel like the trade-offs it makes are not worth the $200 savings it provides, especially if you’re moving to it from a midcycle refresh like the Xbox One X or the PlayStation 4 Pro.
One of the best games of the year is finally coming to Xbox next month Cuphead is getting a free Xbox and Windows exclusive anniversary update The best games on Xbox Game Pass for right now (September 2023) The Series S is initially a showstopper I got my Series S in the same delivery as the Series X , and I was honestly more impressed by the former than the latter while unboxing the two consoles. It took me back to when I moved to America, and my original PAL PlayStation 2 wouldn’t work here, so I had to get a PlayStation 2 NTSC Slim. I was awestruck by how something so small could play all these incredible games, and while the Series S doesn’t shrink down to nearly the same size as the slim PS2, having something more compact than most textbooks is nonetheless impressive.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Then I booted it up, and all the same snappiness as the Series X was there. I was able to download a system update in a flash and manage all the setup via the much-handier Xbox app. Navigating the menus and downloading games from my library was equally as zippy, and to my delight, some of the titles were tens of gigabytes smaller thanks to the lack of 4K textures.
I was awestruck by how something so small could play all these incredible games.
Then I ran into the first catch of the Series S. That pesky 512GB SSD. It’s not even 512GBs — it’s more like 370GB of usable storage.
I had six games installed , and I was already out of space, even with the smaller install files. Thankfully, I have uncapped gigabit internet in my apartment, but that is an incredible niche thing when you’re talking about almost half of the U.S. population that plays video games. Most people do not have the luxury of being able to delete and re-download games conveniently.
There is an option to store more games, but it’s a $220 Seagate expansion card that provides an additional 1TB. By the time you’ve shelled out the money for both that and the console, you’re actually looking at a more expensive value proposition than if you had just bought a Series X, which comes with 1TB of storage natively, a disc drive, and much better hardware.
The severely limiting storage allotment was more problematic than I thought it would be, but maybe the system’s performance would impress enough to make this a product I could recommend? The differences in visual quality are noticeable The first game I played on my Series S was Assassin’s Creed Valhalla , and at first, I thought there was something wrong with it. Not only did it look worse than the Series X, which was to be expected, but it also looked worse than on my One X.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The One X was the system I had been playing the game on for review , so I was well-acquainted with it by this point. That last-gen system used a dynamic resolution during gameplay — sometimes it would run at full 4K and sometimes it would run closer to 1440p, depending on what was happening on the screen. It seems that on average, the game would run at 1740p.
The Series S, however, caps game resolution at 1440p. I would have hoped that Valhalla would then be able to push to 60 frames per second on the console, but it was locked at 30 fps. Switching to the Series X, which runs the game at a consistent 4K60, was a drastic change, but even looking at it on my last-gen One X side by side, I was a little taken aback by the limited performance.
The first game I played on my Series S was Assassin’s Creed Valhalla , and at first I thought there was something wrong with it. Not only did it look worse than the Series X, which was to be expected, but it also looked worse than on my One X.
There is a way to have Valhalla run at 60 fps on the Series S, but it requires you to change the resolution to 1080p at a system level. Not only is that inconvenient, but that is a huge visual drop, especially as that disables the game’s HDR as well.
The other games I tried, fortunately, did not have as dramatic a difference as Valhalla.
Call of Duty: Black Ops Cold War might have been lacking ray tracing and 120 fps modes, but it still felt competent enough visually that it was an impressive console experience. And I was happy to see the Series S still included the ability to increase the game’s field of view, which is a huge advantage that until this new generation was only afforded to PC players.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Gears 5 was the most indistinguishable of all the games when comparing it between the Series S and Series X. And while Dirt 5 ran at a lovely 120 fps on the smaller console, the dip in texture quality was quite noticeable.
Only a handful of people should pick up the Series S Reviewing a unit like the Series S is something I have to change my mindset for. I have to think about the broader spectrum of gamers that don’t play video games for a living and might not have high-speed internet or a 4K OLED TV to enhance their experience.
Call of Duty: Black Ops Cold War might have been lacking ray tracing and 120 fps modes, but it still felt competent enough visually that it was an impressive console experience.
Taking all those factors into consideration, I still think that most people shouldn’t pick up a Series S. If they want an Xbox, they should spring for the much more impressive Series X. Here’s a list of the types of people that should pick up a Series S: If you are extremely limited on space If you need to travel with it a lot If you are buying it as a second console If you are buying it for your children I still have arguments for each of these categories of people as to why they should still go for the Series X. The Series S is small, but it’s not so incredibly small compared to the Series X that traveling with it or finding the space in your home for it is that much easier compared to the Series X.
If you’re buying it as a second console for another TV in the house, it’s not worth it either. The Series X boots up from complete shutdown in seconds, and a feature like Quick Resume, which allows you to swap between games to the exact point you left off, works even if you unplug the system. Just moving your Series X between rooms will only add the smallest amount of inconveniences that would otherwise be alleviated with an additional Series S.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The category I think that most fit the need for a Series S is when buying it for your kids. That is the strongest argument for the console, but to me, there’s an unanswered question that changes my thoughts on it. Will Xbox introduce more Series consoles down the line, or will there be a midcycle refresh again? If so, the Series S is a compelling purchase if you are buying a system for your preteen. By the time they’re a teenager, Microsoft may have released an even more powerful console, or a more capable Series S, which would make a smaller investment now for only a handful of years a smart move.
The thing is, I am 50/50 on if we’ll get that refresh with this console generation. By the time the original Xbox One and PS4 were released, the transition from 1080p to 4K was already underway, and those systems were not equipped for it. That’s why we got the One X and the PS4 Pro.
This time around, both systems support 8K, which is a long way off from hitting the mainstream than 4K was in 2013. While both the Series X and PS5 might be underpowered to play native 8K games, the advancements companies are making with machine learning to create upscaled 8K that looks as good as native resolution are impressive, to the point where this hardware might be perfectly capable of hitting those spec requirements.
Ultimately, new consoles in the next few years are not a foregone conclusion, and while your child might be more than content with a Series S now, four or so years down the line, it is going to be severely unimpressive.
Our take I really like the Series S, and if I had never played the Series X, maybe I would feel differently about it. But I have played the Series X, and I think for the majority of people, the $200 additional cost is worth it for everything that console can do that its younger sibling cannot. If the Series S was $199, and extra storage was not as pricey, we might be having a different conversation.
Is there a better alternative? The Xbox Series X is superior in just about every way, even at a steeper price point.
How long will it last? Theoretically years, but over time its limitations will quickly become apparent.
Should you buy it? I really think only parents with young children that are just starting to play video games should invest in the console.
Editors' Recommendations The best Xbox Series X exclusives All upcoming Xbox Series X games: 2023, 2024 and beyond The best Xbox Series X games for 2023 Xbox’s Phil Spencer responds to blockbuster leak: ‘So much has changed’ Best Xbox One deals: How to buy the discontinued console Game Reviews Microsoft Product Reviews Video Game System Reviews Xbox Gaming Unredacted documents submitted and made publicly available to view as part of the ongoing Microsoft vs. Federal Trade Commission (FTC) trial just led to what may be the biggest leak in video game history.
A flood of files have revealed deep secrets about Xbox's upcoming plans for the bulk of the decade, giving us unprecedented insight into what's on the horizon for the gaming giant. That includes information on upcoming hardware refreshes, next-gen consoles, and unannounced Bethesda titles, as well as a further peek into Microsoft's acquisition ambitions. It's a lot to trudge through, so we've rounded up five key revelations that you'll want to know.
A new Xbox Series X model is coming next year https://twitter.com/stephentotilo/status/1704121068519133313 The most shocking thing to leak as part of the trial is a new Xbox Series X model. Referred to as "Brooklin -- Xbox Series X Refresh" in the leaked documents, this is a diskless, cylindrical version of the Xbox Series X with 2TB of internal storage, a USB-C port, and smaller technical improvements to the system's Wi-Fi, PSU, standby mode, and more. An upgraded Xbox Series S code-named Ellewood may also be in the works and released before Brooklin.
If Microsoft still follows the plan laid out in this "Roadmap to 2030" document created in May 2022, it would release Brooklin in late October 2024 for $500. If Microsoft still plans to release Brooklin next year, it does contradict recent statements from Xbox chief Phil Spencer, who acted bearish on the idea of a mid-gen refresh in Gamescom interviews. It's possible Microsoft's plans have changed since these leaked documents were made, but if not, we now know what to expect in terms of Microsoft's console refreshes.
A new Xbox controller is in the works https://twitter.com/charlieINTEL/status/1704088621475598345 Throughout that Brooklin leak, a new version of the Xbox Series X controller is also teased. The Xbox Series X controller is great, but lacks the unique features of controllers like the DualSense or Joy-Cons, so it makes sense Microsoft would want to change that. Referred to as "Sebile -- The New Xbox Controller," this controller can seamlessly pair and connect to the cloud.
It also will feature haptic feedback, an accelerometer gyro, quieter buttons, modular thumbsticks, a rechargeable and swappable battery, and the ability to wake just by being picked up. The same road map that lists Brooklin and Ellewood's release windows says the Sebile controller will launch sometime in late May 2024 for $70.
First details on Microsoft's next-gen console leak https://twitter.com/AR12Gaming/status/1704102055206322389 It's hard to believe we're almost already three years into this console generation and that Microsoft is planning for its next major console release, but that is the case. Unfortunately for Microsoft, its current technical ambitions for the platform were included in this leak. A leaked document states that Microsoft's ultimate goal is to "develop a next-generation hybrid game platform capable of leveraging the combined power of the client and cloud to deliver deeper immersion and entirely new classes of game experiences." In practice, a list of technical improvements lays out that we can expect an ARM64 CPU that balances big and little cores, a GPU co-designed with AMD, and an NPU that balances "the desire for flexible, programmable ML silicon versus high-performance silicon for targeted workloads," as well as support for better ray tracing, global illumination, micropolygon rendering, and an ML-based Super Resolution. Microsoft also mentions a "thin OS" meant for cheaper consumer and handled devices, likely to play games via the cloud.
This next-gen console is currently slated for a 2028 launch.
Several upcoming Bethesda games leak Enough about hardware -- several upcoming Bethesda games also leaked. A document from 2020 outlining Bethesda's game road map through fiscal year 2024 includes some games we don't know about. Alongside games we know of like MachineGames' Indiana Jones project, the list also includes several code-named projects, remasters of The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion and Fallout 3, a GhostWire: Tokyo sequel, Doom Year Zero, and Dishonored 3.
Another document also confirmed that The Elder Scrolls VI won't launch until at least 2026. Some of these games have missed the release windows listed in the documents, so it's very possible that these dates are no longer accurate and that some may not be released at all. Still, it lays out a clear picture of what was in development at Bethesda just a few years ago and provides insight into the lineup that enticed Microsoft to purchase Bethesda in the first place.
Microsoft considered acquiring Nintendo and Warner Bros. Interactive https://twitter.com/tomwarren/status/1704021807341203802 A leaked email from 2020 gives some insight into Spencer's acquisition ambitions at that point. Namely, it sounds like he'd love to acquire Nintendo as it would be a "career moment" for him.
"I totally agree that Nintendo is THE prime asset for us in gaming, and today gaming is a most likely path to consumer relevance," he wrote. "I've had numerous conversations with the LT of Nintendo about tighter collaboration and feel like if any U.S. company would have a chance with Nintendo, we are probably in the best position ... At some point, getting Nintendo would be a career moment and I honestly believe a good move for both companies." Ultimately, Spencer didn't want to do a hostile takeover of Nintendo, so he settled for playing the "long game" when it came to acquiring it. This same email also reveals that Microsoft was interested in acquiring Warner Bros. Interactive around the same time as Bethesda, although the lack of any WB IP ownership was its undoing, Spencer is also as intrigued about acquiring Valve as it was Nintendo.
It's worth noting that this email is from over three years ago, and these acquisition ambitions might have been quelled following changing economic conditions and the rocky and expensive process of acquiring Activision Blizzard.
Gaming If there's one genre the Xbox series of consoles has struggled to really break into in the past, it's RPGs. Yes, each system had a standout title or two, like the original Xbox having Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic and the 360 having Lost Odyssey, but this particular family of consoles was always seen as secondary to RPG fans compared to Sony, or even Nintendo, machines. With the release of the Xbox Series X, Microsoft has made a strong effort to fill that gap in their library and has already done a great job of publishing, or at least supporting via Game Pass, some of the best RPGs in recent memory.
What counts as an RPG today covers a wide range of games. They can be turn-based, real-time, action-focused, narrative-focused, first-person, and more. So many games incorporate RPG elements now that it can be a little tough to find one that doesn't anymore. However, for this list, we're picking only games that are RPGs at their core, or at least have it as the main component rather than a game that just throws in progression bars and nothing else. Still, that leaves a lot of ground to cover. If you're feeling the itch for a new RPG to play on your Xbox Series X, we've picked out the best from a range of titles that should fill the exact experience you're looking for.
Gaming Starfield is one of the biggest games of the year and space exploration has never looked so good (especially on a new PC with the correct settings tweaked). Released natively for PC and Xbox Series X, a lot of gamers are going to be left out of Bethesda's latest RPG — it'll never be released on PlayStation 5 or Nintendo Switch. But there's good news if you're still playing on a last-gen Xbox One. While Starfield isn't being released on the older console directly, there's still a way to play on Xbox One.
There are also a few other ways to play Startfield without an Xbox at all.
How to play Satrfield on Xbox One Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
