Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best co-op games for 2023 By Jacob Roach and Jesse Lennox Close It doesn’t matter what type of genre you enjoy — the best co-op games offer gaming experiences that are best with a friend.
Co-op gameplay is at the core of video games as a medium, dating back to the early days of the arcade, and developers have been constantly looking for new ways to allow players to play together. Now, it’s easier than ever to do so, with digital marketplaces bursting at the seams with games with online and local co-op.
But which ones should you pick up? Here are the best cooperative games you can play right now.
See more The best multiplayer games on PC The best multiplayer games on the Xbox Series X The best multiplayer games on the PS5 It Takes Two PC (Microsoft Windows), PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X|S Platform, Adventure Hazelight Studios Electronic Arts March 25, 2021 Read less Outriders PC (Microsoft Windows), PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X|S, Google Stadia Shooter, Role-playing (RPG), Adventure People Can Fly Square Enix April 01, 2021 Read less Fortnite PC (Microsoft Windows), Mac, Android, iOS, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X|S Shooter, Role-playing (RPG), Strategy Epic Games Epic Games July 25, 2017 Read less Monster Hunter Rise PC (Microsoft Windows), Nintendo Switch Role-playing (RPG), Hack and slash/Beat 'em up, Adventure Capcom Capcom March 25, 2021 Read less Animal Crossing: New Horizons Nintendo Switch Simulator Nintendo EPD, Nintendo Nintendo March 19, 2020 Read less Stardew Valley Linux, PC (Microsoft Windows), Mac, Android, iOS, PlayStation Vita, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Nintendo Switch Role-playing (RPG), Simulator, Indie ConcernedApe ConcernedApe, Chucklefish Games February 26, 2016 Read less Among Us PC (Microsoft Windows), Android, iOS, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X|S Strategy, Indie InnerSloth InnerSloth June 15, 2018 Read less Phasmophobia PC (Microsoft Windows) Puzzle, Tactical, Indie Kinetic Games Kinetic Games September 18, 2020 Read less Moving Out PC (Microsoft Windows), PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Nintendo Switch Simulator, Strategy, Adventure, Indie DEVM Games, SMG Studio Team17 April 27, 2020 Read less Gears 5 PC (Microsoft Windows), Xbox One, Xbox Series X|S Shooter, Adventure The Coalition Xbox Game Studios September 10, 2019 Read less Halo: The Master Chief Collection PC (Microsoft Windows), Xbox One, Xbox Series X|S Shooter 343 Industries Xbox Game Studios November 11, 2014 Read less Tom Clancy's The Division 2 PC (Microsoft Windows), PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Google Stadia Shooter, Tactical Massive Entertainment - A Ubisoft Studio Ubisoft March 15, 2019 Read less Tiny Tina's Wonderlands PC (Microsoft Windows), PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X|S Shooter, Role-playing (RPG), Adventure Gearbox Software 2K Games March 25, 2022 Read less Diablo III PC (Microsoft Windows), PlayStation 3, Xbox 360, Mac, PlayStation 4, Xbox One Role-playing (RPG), Hack and slash/Beat 'em up, Adventure Blizzard Entertainment Blizzard Entertainment, Square Enix May 15, 2012 Read less Call of Duty: Warzone 2.0 PC (Microsoft Windows), PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X|S Shooter, Tactical Infinity Ward Activision November 14, 2022 Read less Overcooked! 2 Linux, PC (Microsoft Windows), Mac, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Nintendo Switch Simulator, Strategy, Tactical, Indie, Arcade Ghost Town Games Team17 August 07, 2018 Read less Minecraft Linux, PC (Microsoft Windows), Mac Adventure, Arcade Mojang Studios Mojang Studios November 18, 2011 Read less Cuphead PC (Microsoft Windows), Mac, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Nintendo Switch Shooter, Platform, Adventure, Indie, Arcade Studio MDHR Studio MDHR September 29, 2017 Read less Divinity: Original Sin II PC (Microsoft Windows), Mac, PlayStation 4, Xbox One Role-playing (RPG), Strategy, Turn-based strategy (TBS), Adventure Larian Studios Larian Studios September 14, 2017 Read less Portal 2 Linux, PC (Microsoft Windows), PlayStation 3, Xbox 360, Mac Shooter, Platform, Puzzle, Adventure Valve Corporation Valve Corporation, Electronic Arts April 19, 2011 Read less Overwatch 2 PC (Microsoft Windows), PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X|S Shooter Blizzard Entertainment Blizzard Entertainment October 04, 2022 Read less Keep Talking and Nobody Explodes Linux, PC (Microsoft Windows), Mac, Android, iOS, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Nintendo Switch, Windows Mixed Reality, SteamVR, Daydream, PlayStation VR, Meta Quest, Meta Rift, Gear VR Puzzle, Simulator, Indie, Card & Board Game Steel Crate Games Steel Crate Games July 16, 2015 It’s a classic Hollywood scenario: A field operative is locked in a battle with time as they try to defuse an elaborate bomb. Meanwhile, a support team frantically digs through manuals remotely to help their colleague get out alive.
Keep Talking and Nobody Explodes is one of the first virtual reality games that really plays with the medium (you can play it without, but the experience lacks tactile suspense). One player, wearing a VR headset, must defuse a procedurally generated bomb, but has no idea how to do so. Everyone else in the game has to solve each of the bomb’s many puzzles, digging through physical manuals to help the defuser. As you may have sensed, asymmetry is a running theme on this list. Putting players in different roles leads to fun and interesting cooperation, and this is a perfect example of how new technology can inspire wholly new types of play.
Read less Destiny 2 PC (Microsoft Windows), PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X|S, Google Stadia Shooter, Role-playing (RPG), Tactical, Adventure Bungie Activision September 06, 2017 Read less Grand Theft Auto V PC (Microsoft Windows), PlayStation 3, Xbox 360, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X|S Shooter, Adventure Rockstar North Rockstar Games, Take-Two Interactive September 17, 2013 Read less PAYDAY 2 PC (Microsoft Windows), PlayStation 3, Xbox 360, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Nintendo Switch Shooter, Role-playing (RPG), Tactical Overkill Software 505 Games, Starbreeze Studios August 13, 2013 Read less Deep Rock Galactic PC (Microsoft Windows), PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PlayStation 5 Shooter, Adventure, Indie Ghost Ship Games Coffee Stain Publishing May 13, 2020 Read less Back 4 Blood PC (Microsoft Windows), PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X|S Shooter Turtle Rock Studios Warner Bros. Interactive Entertainment October 12, 2021 Read less Don't Starve Together Linux, PC (Microsoft Windows), Mac, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Nintendo Switch, Xbox Series X|S Simulator, Strategy, Adventure, Indie Klei Entertainment Klei Entertainment April 21, 2016 Don’t Starve might be the most charming survival game out there. In a genre where every developer is concerned with realism, Klei Entertainment went in a different direction with Don’t Starve, honing in on the survival elements and ditching the realism for a gothic coat of paint.
Don’t Starve Together is the same game, just with online and local co-op. Plus, it’s a stand-alone expansion, so you don’t need the original game to play.
Don’t Starve i s a game that pairs survival of the fittest with adventure and exploration. You’ll quickly notice how random everything is every time you restart a new world. The first few worlds you create give you the chance to learn the game rather than focus on surviving. We won’t lie to you, Don’t Starve is a challenging and unforgiving game, but if you remain patient and willing to learn, you can benefit over time.
Read less Editors' Recommendations The best handheld gaming PCs you can buy The best Mario games of all time, ranked These are the best microphones for streaming you can buy The best PS5 exclusives Netflix subscribers are getting one of the decade’s best games Gaming While the jumps have been getting smaller and smaller between generations, there's always a nice graphical bump to look forward to when picking up the latest hardware. We're long past the days of going from 16-bit 2D games to full-on 3D, and even the jump from SD to HD, but the visual improvements we got between the PS4 and PS5 are still striking. Not only are resolutions higher, but new techniques like ray tracing are now possible and starting to show up in more titles as we get deeper into the console's life.
Now that it's been out for a decent amount of time, and we have a wide selection of both upgraded titles and ones made exclusively for the PS5, there are a few that have risen to the top that anyone looking to show off the power of their new console will want to grab. Not only are all the games on this list visually impressive -- not just necessarily photorealistic, mind you -- but they're also a blast to play. Graphics don't make a game fun, but it just works out that the best-looking games on PS5 are also some of the best-playing. Here are our picks for the PS5 games with the best graphics.
Gaming Murphy is far more than a man in RoboCop: Rogue City. His robotic and cybernetic enhancements have made him the perfect crime-fighting machine, or so we thought. As it turns out, there is a lot of room for upgrades in your new body and multiple ways to invest your points. The tree is broken down into eight different categories, and each one has three unique perks sprinkled in that give you new and powerful abilities. Or rather, some of them do. Depending on how you want to dispense justice, there are plenty of skills that will be a complete waste of time to get. Before you go on your quest to serve the public trust, protect the innocent, and uphold the law, make sure you know the best skills to unlock in RoboCop: Rogue City.
Best skills to unlock The skill tree in RoboCop: Rogue City is broken into the following eight categories: Combat, Armor, Vitality, Engineering, Focus, Scanning, Deduction, and Psychology. There are 10 slots in each, with perks unlocking at the second, sixth, and final slots. Note that once a skill point is invested, you cannot change your mind later.
Shield You may be in a shiny metallic body, but you aren't invincible. Especially in the early game, you will find yourself a bit less tanky than you expect. Thankfully all you need to do is pump two points into the Armor tree to get the Shield ability. Once active, you reduce all incoming damage by 80%. If you're digging that feeling, you can even go to the next perk which is High Damage Reduction. This is a passive skill that automatically cuts explosive and high-caliber weapon damage by 25%. There's no need to max out this tree since Deflect isn't all that useful in the long run.
Fuse Boxes Recovery Taking less damage is great, but what about when you need to heal? The first perk in Vitality makes Fuse Boxes healing items that restore 50% of your health, plus increases how many OCP Recovery Charges you can store up to 4. Depending on how difficult you find the game, you can continue down to basically get a better version of this skill that makes Fuse Boxes restore all your health and cap your Recovery Charges at 5, or invest all the way and unlock Auto Regeneration to passively restore HP up to 75%.
Dash You're a walking tank, but that doesn't mean you have to move like one. Dash unlocks on the second node of the Engineering tree and gives you, well, a dash! You can use it to slam into enemies, get into or out of cover, or just maneuver around however you need. Movement in RoboCop: Rogue City is a bit clunky, so this makes combat far more responsive.
Enhanced Learning This will be a skill you need to spend a lot of time investing in the Deduction tree to get but should be done as early as possible if you're going to go for it. Enhanced Learning increases all XP gain by 30%, thus making all future skills easier to get. Plus you will get Enhanced Scanning and Enhanced Map on the way, which make doing side missions and gathering items around the map way easier.
Gaming Blink while playing one of the best city-building games, and you'll lose countless hours expanding your city, refining your infrastructure, and focusing your trade. Ever since the original Sim City, we've been losing sleep designing the perfect utopias for our digital citizens, and as time has gone on, they've only gotten more satisfying to build.
Although city-building games usually carry a steep learning curve and tons of content, beginners can dive into any option on our list and have a good time. The genre has expanded to include tons of big hitters, with exciting sequels like Cities Skylines 2 on the horizon. We have a mix of hardcore survival experiences like Frostpunk and minimalist builders like Islanders, so there's something for everyone.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
