Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Upcoming PS5 Games PlayStation Plus Best PS5 Games Connect PS5 Controller to PC Best PS5 Headsets How to Turn Off PS5 Free PS5 Games Xbox Series X vs PS5 PS5 Voice Commands Home Gaming Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Best PS5 game deals: discounts on the best games of 2023 By Aaron Mamiit Close There’s no shortage of discounts for PlayStation 5 games among retailers, with some of the offers involving our favorite PS5 games. It may look like a daunting task to narrow down your choice for your next PS5 game purchase, but we’re here to help you out. We’ve rounded up some of the best PS5 game deals, and if you see a deal that you like, you have to click that Buy Now button immediately as some of these discounts won’t last long. All of the games below appear on our list of the best PS5 games for 2023.
Deathloop — $25, was $60 Marvel Midnight Suns: Enhanced Edition — $30, was $70 Stray — $33, was $40 Final Fantasy XVI — $50, was $70 The Last of Us (Part 1) — $51, was $70 Diablo IV: Cross-Gen Bundle —$63, was $70 Deathloop — $25, was $60.
If you’re looking for a shooter game that blurs the line between single player and multiplayer, try out Deathloop , created by the same studio that made Dishonored.
 Played from a main story perspective, it could almost feel like a pure assassin murder simulator, with many targets to find. Of course, there would still be a big catch thrown into the mayhem: somebody is out there trying to kill you. And that’s where multiplayer comes in! Invade others’ games and try to end their day before they knock out their target or, if you allow multiplayer, add a whole new layer of difficulty to the campaign playthrough.
Marvel Midnight Suns: Enhanced Edition — $30, was $70.
Marvel: Midnight Suns is an XCOM-like where you combat the forces of evil with an array of heroes, not agents. While the game was released around the same time as Marvel Snap , and also features cards, don’t think of it as a quick pick-me-up game. Instead, it features a full-length campaign. The enhanced edition includes post-launch DLC content, giving you a more complete experience, as well as premium skins, so you can see your favorite hero in the style you like.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
Stray — $33, was $40.
Forget Starfield for a moment, what if you were able to explore a cybercity… as a cat? Our Stray review highlighted the game as being way more than a meme. In it, your hero — none other than an orange stray cat — explores a world that is “socially conscious” and has a “clear environmentalist streak.” All the while your cat exhibits cute behaviors that really add to the realism of the game. Be sure to check this game out soon, because rumor has it that there is a movie adaptation coming out in the future.
Final Fantasy XVI — $50, was $70.
Final Fantasy XVI (aka FF16) is an action RPG that doesn’t really need an introduction, because it already has one in the form of a long list of Final Fantasy games before it. It’s known as a great entry point into RPGs that gives you a lot of freedom to choose your own combat style. Additionally, the games’ characters have styles that are best described as quirky , with features such as spiky hair and trinkets that border on the bizarre, so always be on the lookout for them at cosplay conventions.
The Last of Us (Part 1) — $51, was $70.
Naughty Dog’s The Last of Us is a series so loved that it became (in a very internet sense of the word) “controversial” when characters’ development differed from the ideas of fans. Take that as you will, but it is at least a sign that the first game in the series did a good job of bringing people into a world of realistic people. Part of that was via storytelling and part of that was due to the gameplay, which has a simulated “co-op” mechanic to it. In any event, this is a “zombie” game (what The Last of Us’ s “infected” essentially are) that is almost never referred to as such, it’s really just all about the story.
Diablo IV: Cross-Gen Bundle —$63, was $70 Blizzard Entertainment / Diablo Diablo IV is Blizzard’s latest entry in the Diablo franchise, coming after the mobile game Diablo Immortal.
 Our Diablo IV review puts character creation and customization, alongside exploration, at the forefront of the title’s charms. While these remain big boons to the game’s delights, as people are “finishing” the game, inevitable chatter about the end game come into play. This is a game that people want to sink hundreds of hours into. With the advent of seasons we can expect to see changeups every so often, giving players what they want in regard to this. Season 1 actually seemed to remove some of the hardest endgame content due to balance issues. We remain excited to see what the future of Diablo IV holds as the second season comes out this October.
Editors' Recommendations Best Black Friday gaming laptop deals: Cheapest prices today The brand new PS5 ‘Slim’ is already discounted Xbox Series X Black Friday deals: Consoles, games, and accessories Nintendo Switch Black Friday deals: Consoles, games, and more Razer Black Friday deals: Save on gaming laptops, keyboards and more Deals Cheapest Prices Sony Sony PlayStation Sony PlayStation 5 Computing Gamers who don't want this year's Black Friday deals to end without buying a powerful gaming laptop for much cheaper than usual should check out the offers that were launched by Razer. One of the most popular gaming brands, it doesn't disappoint with its high-performance and stylish machines. We've rounded up our top picks for Razer gaming laptop Black Friday deals below, including our absolute favorite, so don't waste any more time -- find the model that you want and proceed with the purchase, while the discounts are still online. If gaming isn't your sole focus, you'll find other powerful laptops in our list of the best Black Friday laptop deals.
Best Razer gaming laptop Black Friday deal The top-of-the-line performance provided by the Razer Blade 15 actually makes it a steal at its discounted price, as it's the only machine that you'll need for the next few years if you're looking forward to some upcoming PC games. Inside the gaming laptop are the 12th-generation Intel Core i7 processor, Nvidia GeForce RTX 3070 Ti graphics card, and 16GB of RAM, which are enough to run today's most popular titles at the highest settings. Its 15.6-inch screen with QHD resolution and a 240Hz refresh rate will give justice to all that power, and you'll be able to install several AAA games on its 1TB SSD that ships with Windows 11 Home. Originally $3,000, the Razer Blade 15 is down to $1,800 following a $1,200 discount from Razer for Black Friday.
Computing There's no need to wait for Black Friday deals because retailers like Dell have already rolled out some of their offers for the shopping holiday. Whether you're planning to buy a new laptop, monitor, or desktop computer, Dell surely has something that will fit your budget. We've rounded up the best Dell Black Friday deals that you can shop right now to help you decide quickly on your purchases, since you need to hurry to make sure that you're able to take advantage of the bargains. Like HP laptop Black Friday deals and Amazon Black Friday laptop deals, these discounts could end at any time. Any of these prices may return to normal at any moment, so act fast.
Top 3 Dell Black Friday deals Dell S2721QS 4K monitor -- $240, was $330 If you're looking for monitor deals to upgrade an outdated display, you should consider the Dell S2721QS 4K monitor. You'll be getting sharp details and vivid colors on its 27-inch screen with 4K Ultra HD resolution, and you'll also experience less stuttering and screen tearing with AMD's FreeSync technology. Your neck and eyes will stay comfortable with the help of the monitor's height-adjustable stand and Dell's ComfortView Plus that reduces harmful blue light emissions.
Gaming Gamers who have been planning to buy a gaming headset from Black Friday deals will be able to enjoy discounts on devices made by Logitech, Corsair, and many more -- but you have to act fast because stocks may sell out quickly. Whether you just need a basic device to better enjoy the audio of your favorite games or a premium one that will give you the communications advantage when battling with your teammates in online multiplayer matches, there's surely something for you out there. If you take advantage of the Black Friday PS5 deals or Black Friday Xbox Series S deals, you'll definitely want a headset to chat with your buds. Of course, to help you find that perfect offer, we've gathered our top picks below, and if something catches your eye, proceed with the transaction as soon as possible, as the deal may end sooner than you think.
Best Black Friday Wired Gaming Headset Deals There are various reasons why gamers prefer wired gaming headsets, including their relatively lower prices compared to wireless gaming headsets and generally better audio quality because their cables support higher bandwidth with less interference. They're also fantastic if you've grabbed one of the Black Friday Xbox Series X deals.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
