Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Best video game deals: PlayStation 5, Xbox S and X, Nintendo Switch By Noah McGraw Close Is your backlog of video games running low? Did you just grab a new PlayStation 5 , Xbox Series X or Nintendo Switch and need to build up your library? Video game deals are the cheapest way to do it. Below we’ve pulled the best video game deals available for all three current generation consoles. These are all fantastic games, by the way. Everything listed below appears on our list of the best PS5 games , best Xbox Series X games , or best Nintendo Switch games.
 You’ll find deals on some surprisingly popular titles, too.
Best PS5 game deals Best Xbox Series S and X game deals Best Nintendo Switch game deals Best PS5 game deals Diablo IV — $63, was $70 Blizzard Entertainment / Diablo The long-awaited sequel is finally here! Jump back into the dark fantasy role playing game with this newest installment. You’ll fight evil in all its grotesque forms across an expansive map.
Diablo IV keeps the classic isometric look of the previous games while updating them to current-gen graphics and controls. There’s a singleplayer campaign as well as an extensive post-game multiplayer world.
Star Wars Jedi: Survivor — $60, was $70 EA / EA Star Wars Jedi: Survivor picks up where Cal and the team left off in Jedi: Fallen Order.
 Cal keeps a majority of his force powers and builds up new ones as he searches for a safe haven for the surviving jedi. Jedi: Survivor is a Star Wars take on the souls-like genre that fans of both franchises can enjoy. You’ll solve Zelda-like puzzles, fight brutal bosses and travers several large planets from the Star Wars universe.
The Last of Us Part I — $51, was $70 Sony Naughty Dog is famous for a perfectionist approach to realistic graphics. It only makes sense then that they would remake their modern PS3 classic, The Last of Us , and bring it in line with the current generation of games. If you played Last of Us Part II , you’ll instantly recognize the gameplay style of Part I.
 Naughty Dog basically reused the gameplay mechanics of Part II and retold the story of Part I with better graphics. This is the new official version of the game, and includes the DLC Left Behind.
Returnal — $35, was $70 Deathloop — $25, was $60 DeathLoop Deathloop uses the classic Groundhog Day conceit of a time loop and turns it into a first person shooter. You’ll explore and fight your way through the map, looking for the locations of various items, weapons and bosses. When you inevitably die, you’ll respawn and use the knowledge you just gained to get through the level faster and prepare for battles better.
Final Fantasy XVI — $50, was $70 Square Enix Final Fantasy XVI , the newest entry in the long-running RPG series, has some new things to offer to the franchise. While FFXV tried to blend real time action and turn-based elements, FFXVI leans much more into the hack and slash territory of games like Devil May Cry.
 It has the same epic scope and grand feel that the series is known for, but the combat and RPG elements are toned down considerably to give a more action-heavy experience.
Best Xbox Series S and X game deals Street Fighter 6 — $54, was $60 Konami Street Fighter has been one of the standard fighting game franchises since the first game launched in arcades in 1987. So how are we only up to number six? That’s a long story. Suffice to say that the Street Fighter 6 developers have learned a lot from their long history with fighting games. Our review calls it “a new gold standard for fighting games.” If you’re a fan of the series and were somewhat turned off by the lackluster reception of Street Fighter 5 , give this one a shot. If you’re a new player, this entry has an approachable design that will get your hadoken started on the right foot.
Resident Evil 4 Remake — $54, was $60 Capcom Resident Evil 4 is one of the most classic video games of all time. It revolutionized the third person shooter, survival horror and action genres. Since Konami has been remaking nearly every entry in the Resident Evil series (we’re still praying for Code: Veronica ), it only makes sense that they would get around to Resident Evil 4.
 You’ll play as Leone Kennedy as he tries to rescue the president’s daughter from strange and macabre events in the backwoods of Spain. The remake keeps all the wackiness and horror of the original and updates the gameplay and graphics.
Forza Horizon 5 — $48, was $60 Xbox If you’re a fan of hyper-realistic racing sims, Forza Horizon 5 is the game for you. The Forza series has long been a benchmark for a console’s graphical ability, largely in part to many of them shipping in package deals with Xbox consoles. This newest entry does the Xbox Series X’s power justice, with next gen graphics and tight but realistic controls.
Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 2 — $50, was $70 Call of Duty How many times has this game released again? Never mind — it’s worth buying again. As tons of video game remakes are releasing, Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 2 takes things in a different direction by being more a spiritual successor than a remake. You’ll still get hints of nostalgic levels, guns and characters, but it’s altogether a new experience and befits the newest generation of consoles.
Best Nintendo Switch game deals Bayonetta 3 — $40, was $60 Nintendo Bayonetta is back for hair-whipping hack and slash action. This time Bayonetta is battling the multiverse in a chaotic and sometimes nonsensical parade of incredible set pieces. The fighting mechanics are smooth and fine-tuned, the culmination of everything the developers learned over the past two games. The number of new moves and combos you can learn is surprisingly deep. If you’re a perfectionist, you’ll spend hours diving into all the possibilities. If you’re just here for a good time, the controls and combat are simple and friendly for casual players as well.
Metroid Prime Remastered — $38, was $40 Nintendo Metroid fans have been waiting for an updated Metroid Prime for years. The classic first person shooter is now available as a remaster on Nintendo Switch. On the spectrum of remake to remaster, this release is definitely toward the former. You’ll run through the same exact puzzles, bosses and alien planets as you did when you were a kid. That isn’t a knock on the game; after all, how do you improve on perfection? Pokémon Legends: Arceus — $49, was $60 Nintendo I think a lot of us have wished for more immersive, 3D Pokémon game since we got our first taste of it in Pokémon Snap in 1999.
Pokémon Legends: Arceus is here to scratch that itch. You’ll wander around a fully rendered open world while you research the first ever Pokédex. That means there’s a lot less battling and a lot more exploration (and marveling at cute Poké-critters).
Pikmin 4 — $56, was $60 Nintendo / Nintendo Control a legion of little plant men in this new entry to the classic strategy series. You’ll command various type of pikmin to accomplish complex tasks in a more player-friendly experience than the previous three games. Playing Pikmin 4 can feel like herding cats, and that’s part of the appeal. But if you learn how to play your strategy early and execute at the right time, you’ll have your pikmin working like a well oiled machine.
Super Mario Odyssey — $50, was $60 Nintendo Super Mario Odyssey is the most fully-realized Mario game to date. It follows in the footsteps of other classic 3D Mario games like Super Mario 64 , Sunshine and Galaxy , while having its own unique gameplay mechanics and twist. In this case, the major gameplay gimmick is Mario’s ability to throw his hat and control whatever it lands on. This adds a lot of new platforming and puzzle opportunities as you turn into dinosaurs, goombas, and normal, non-Mario-looking humans.
Editors' Recommendations This is hands-down the best Nintendo Switch Black Friday deal Xbox Series X Black Friday deals: Consoles, games, and accessories Nintendo Switch Black Friday deals: Consoles, games, and more The best games on PlayStation Plus, Extra, and Premium Best Alienware deals: Save on gaming laptops and PCs today Deals Cheapest Prices Microsoft Nintendo Nintendo Switch Sony Sony PlayStation Xbox Computing Gamers who want to be able to play the best PC games should invest in a gaming PC. These machines range from low-priced but capable computers to high-end devices that can handle anything you throw at them, so what you're going to get depends on your budget. There's no shortage of gaming PC deals online, so to help you choose, and to prevent you from getting overwhelmed, we've rounded up our top picks right here. You need to hurry with your purchase though, because these bargains may disappear at any moment.
Lenovo LOQ Tower -- $750, was $1,030 The Lenovo LOQ Tower is a relatively affordable gaming PC that doesn't sacrifice performance, as it's still a very capable machine with its 13th-generation Intel Core i5 processor, Nvidia GeForce RTX 3050 graphics card, and 8GB of RAM. The gaming desktop also ships with Windows 11 Home pre-installed in a 512GB SSD, which offers enough space for multiple AAA titles with all the necessary updates and DLCs.
Gaming For one of the best Xbox Series X and Series S deals around, look no further than Walmart. Today, you can buy the Xbox Series X Forza Horizon 5 bundle for just $490 so you save $70 off the regular price of $560. If you're looking to start your holiday gift purchasing or you simply want a new console for yourself, this is a great deal. Check it out now by tapping the buy button below or keep reading while we tell you more about it.
Why you should buy the Xbox Series X Forza Horizon 5 bundle The Xbox Series X is a seriously powerful games console. While it might have a fairly divisive design being a very large black box, inside is some fantastic power. It has 12 teraflops of processing power and is capable of running games at 120 frames per second in 4K. It runs quietly too thanks to a great cooling design. Under the hood is 1TB of hard drive space which translates to 802GB of available space once you rule out the needs of the operating system. Tag on one of the best Xbox Series X accessories like the Seagate Storage Expansion Card and you're all set to embrace the best Xbox Game Pass titles.
Gaming Madden NFL Football is one of the most popular video game franchises of all time, and today its newest iteration — Madden NFL 24 — is seeing a massive discount. You can get Madden NFL 24 for just $43 at Amazon right now, and it’s available at that price for both the Xbox Series X and the PlayStation 5. The game regularly costs $70, making this deal worth a savings of $27. Free shipping is included with a purchase as well.
Why you should buy Madden NFL 24 The Madden NFL video game franchise is a staple in sports gaming, with previous versions of the game still among the best sports games on Xbox Series X. Madden NFL 24 advances the franchise significantly, bringing what’s known as Sapien Technology to the game. It’s a leap forward in character technology and makes the football players within the game more responsive and truer to player motion in real life. This also brings improvements in gameplay realism, as it tends to feel more lifelike as you control the players in different ways. Madden’s FieldSENSE also provides an enhanced gameplay foundation that gives you greater control.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
