Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Guides Everything we know about Kingdom Hearts IV By Jesse Lennox Close Fans of the Kingdom Hearts titles are used to waiting extremely long times between mainline releases. After Kingdom Hearts II on the PS2, the series veered into spinoff territory, with no proper sequel for the entire PS3 generation. Finally, in 2019, we got the long-awaited conclusion to what we would learn was the Dark Seeker Saga. However, in typical Kingdom Hearts fashion, the end of the saga was by no means the end of the story for Sora, Riku, Kairi, and all their Disney and Final Fantasy friends. Both a secret ending, boss, and DLC all pointed toward a new era on the horizon. The only question was how long it would take until we saw what it would be.
Release date Platforms Trailer Gameplay Multiplayer DLC Pre-order For Kingdom Hearts’ 20th anniversary event, fans were treated to something most didn’t expect to see so soon: A full reveal of Kingdom Hearts IV.
 Not a side story, prequel, interlude, or dream, but an actual direct continuation from where Kingdom Hearts III appeared to leave off. Not only did Square Enix simply state that the game existed, but a full trailer was also shown. This trailer is short but packed with information and things to speculate about. The full picture isn’t clear yet, but we’ve unlocked all the secrets we can so far to share everything we know about Kingdom Hearts IV and the new Lost Master Arc.
See more Everything we know about Final Fantasy 16 The 10 best JRPGs of all time developed by Japanese studios The best PS5 games for 2022 Release date Image used with permission by copyright holder The big downer for the reveal of Kingdom Hearts IV is that no release date was given. There’s not even a window of what year Square Enix thinks this title might be ready. However, we can speculate a bit. In our hearts, we don’t see this game coming out before 2024. On one hand, we do see what looks to be real (though clearly early) gameplay in the trailer. On the other hand, there are reports that the game is currently using Unreal Engine 4 but is planning on switching to Unreal Engine 5. While that transfer is supposedly not too difficult, it will probably take some time and create some setbacks in the process. Either way, it wouldn’t be the first time we got a trailer way, way in advance of a Kingdom Hearts game actually coming out.
Foamstars: release date speculation, trailers, gameplay, and more Skull and Bones: release date speculation, trailers, gameplay, and more Stellar Blade: release date speculation, trailers, gameplay, and more Platforms Image used with permission by copyright holder There are no platforms announced for Kingdom Hearts IV yet. The Kingdom Hearts series has traditionally been PlayStation only, but Kingdom Hearts III launched on both Xbox One and PS4 and came to Switch and PC later. Past games in the series have also recently been ported to Xbox and PC, and it seems like the point of bringing the entire series to these new platforms was to build up those audiences for a new Kingdom Hearts IV.
 We won’t know for sure until later, but we think this could easily come to all platforms — maybe even Switch via streaming — simultaneously or close to it.
Aside from that, this should be a current-gen exclusive. Given the minimum two years we predict before this game comes out, we should be far enough past the PS4 and Xbox One to have fully dedicated current-gen games.
Trailer The announcement trailer from the 20th anniversary event in Japan is, so far, all we have in terms of footage. Even so, there’s quite a bit of interesting stuff packed in this short teaser at the end of a series of trailers.
Once we get to the Kingdom Hearts IV section, we open with the direct message of this being The Lost Master Arc. We see some breathtaking shots of the same modern-day city, heavily inspired by Tokyo, we saw briefly in the secret ending of Kingdom Hearts III, which we learn is named Quadratum. A voiceover, which is hard to place as familiar due to it being in Japanese, talks in typical cryptic Kingdom Hearts style. Apparently talking to Sora, the voice advises him to leave that world if he’s too full of despair. Meanwhile, a giant dark mass forms in the sky before we cut to more text stating: “The heart resides within the soul, which in turn is guided by fate to its rightful place.” New footage of another amazingly realized forest location, with a waterfall and river, is shown. We cut to Sora for the first time, asleep on a couch, sporting a new outfit. He opens his door to a mysterious red-haired girl named Strelitzia (apparently an important character in Kingdom Hearts Union Cross) who fills him in on the fact that he’s been sleeping for a full week since he appeared in that world. She describes the world as something like an “after world” for people like them, perhaps implying that she isn’t from Quadratum either. During an interview with Famitsu , Tetsuya Nomura commented on what this new world was stating. “From Sora’s perspective, Quadratum is an underworld, a fictional world that is different from reality. But from the point of view of the inhabitants on the Quadratum side, the world of Quadratum is reality, and the world where Sora and the others were is the other side, the fictional world. I think the theme of this project will be the contrast between those who are in such different positions.” This seems to be pointing towards the fact that this world was seen in Kingdom Hearts 3 as the fictional location of a fake game inside the Toy Story world called Verum Rex.
The black mass from before returns, now forming into a more disfigured version of something like the Darkside enemy from past games, terrorizing the people on the street and lifting cars with dark powers. Sora, the hero at heart that he is, rushes in to do battle, summoning his iconic Keyblade.
As the fight comes to an end, the voiceover continues and we see two cloaked figures wearing the same black coats as Organization XIII once did. He finishes by saying that if Sora decides to leave that world, he shouldn’t expect to go back to the one he came from.
After the title drop, we get a tiny bit more footage of Donald and Goofy wandering around a pitch black environment looking for someone only referred to as “he” that they hope can help them. A blue flame sparks behind them, catching their attention, before a voice asks where they think they’re going. The pair appear frightened already, but freak out after turning around and the blue fire erupts into a red blaze.
The final words to cap it all off are, “Magic in the Making.” In terms of story, well, things are complicated. To start off, the name of this new arc, The Lost Master Arc, probably refers to a character known as The Master of Masters, who was a Keyblade Master from Kingdom Hearts X.
He wrote something called the Book of Prophecies and only showed up in the mainline games during the ending of Kingdom Hearts III in a cloak. How this plays into, well, anything is beyond our knowledge.
Considering Kairi’s fate at the end of Kingdom Hearts III and Sora’s at the end of the Re:Mind DLC, it’s clear that the reason Sora is in Quadratum, at least initially, is to reunite once again with Kairi. Obviously things won’t go to plan, though. All we can hope, for now, is that this new arc can cut down on the overly complex nature the first arc had — at least a little bit.
As for Donald and Goofy, all signs point to them either looking for, or at least accidentally encountering, Hades. The blue flame feels like a dead giveaway, despite us not being familiar with the Japanese voice. Why they would be looking for him, or looking for someone in the underworld, could be anything. Hades has shown to be tied in with the series’ biggest bad guys in a way the other Disney villains aren’t, and we’ve never thwarted him for good, so he’s a solid pick to bring back.
Nomura had more to say on what the pair are doing, plus commented on Sora’s new design as well. “Donald and Goofy are looking for clues about Sora in the original world,” he explained. “All the real worlds before the title display [in the trailer] are all Quadratum segments and Sora will look realistic, but if he can return to the original world, he will look like Donald and Goofy with shaders like Donald and Goofy.” This is all consistent with how Sora and crew’s appearances change to reflect whatever world they are in throughout the series.
Gameplay Image used with permission by copyright holder A fair bit of the trailer was at least made to look like gameplay, though it can be a little hard to believe based on how good it looked. At the very least, we expect plenty of changes between this and the final product, but it’s safe to say big things are coming.
As suspected, Normura has stated that the apartment in Quadratum we find Sora resting in will be this game’s hub of sorts, at least for the beginning portion of the game. This area is not in Shibuya itself, but another part of the city called Minami-Aoyama.
First, the slow-motion style of movement from Dream Drop Distance and Kingdom Hearts III is back, but smoother than ever. Sora leaps, spins, slides, and even uses his Keyblade as a grappling hook to seamlessly glide around the city environment. Quicktime events, or reaction commands maybe, seem to be coming back. We see Sora counter the giant heartless’s punch by transforming his Keyblade into a drill, hinting that form changes will also be coming back, before launching it like a missile.
Unfortunately we don’t get to see the end of the fight, but the scale and spectacle look beyond anything we’ve seen yet.
The UI is also on screen, but looks identical to the Kingdom Hearts III version, leading us to believe it is a placeholder for now. Unfortunately we can’t read any of the text on the UI, so if there is anything exciting there, sorry.
Also, besides Quadratum, the only other world we see is that forest area. Eagle-eyed viewers noticed one strange detail in a shot of the river that looks a lot like the foot of an AT-AT, the mechanical walking tanks from the Star Wars series. This would be the first time the Kingdom Hearts series has crossed over with that franchise, but considering it is a Disney property, is completely possible. Again, that is pure speculation — no worlds outside Quadratum are confirmed, but it’s possible Sora might get his first lightsaber Keyblade. You can judge for yourself by looking at the top right of the above screenshot.
Multiplayer Image used with permission by copyright holder Kingdom Hearts IV shouldn’t have any multiplayer modes. The only games in the series that did have them were spinoff titles, and even then, they were sectioned off to minigames and arena challenges. This series has always been about the story, characters, and adventure, so we hope it remains true to that. Unless it does include some odd side games that have no relation or impact on the main story, we’d prefer a pure, focused single-player experience. Still, we can’t say for sure until Square Enix confirms it one way or the other.
DLC Kingdom Hearts III was the first title to get any DLC, and it turned out to be really good. If it is handled the same way for Kingdom Hearts IV , with it being mostly postgame content and the ability to play as new characters, we’d be all for some DLC later on to bring us back into the world of Kingdom Hearts. Personally, we feel it’s way past due for Riku to star in his own story — if he doesn’t at least appear as a playable character in the main game. Again, this is all wild speculation.
Pre-order Image used with permission by copyright holder We’re years off from Kingdom Hearts IV gracing our screens and hearts. Though it pains us to say it, there won’t be any news on how to pre-order Kingdom Hearts IV for quite a while. Based on past games, though, you should be looking forward to any special editions they announce. If they keep up with their past ones, there will be some awesome goodies included that any major Kingdom Hearts fan will want. Once they do show up, we’ll let you know all the pre-order details here.
Editors' Recommendations Cities: Skylines 2: release date, trailers, gameplay, and more Project Bloom: release date speculation, trailers, gameplay, and more UFC 5: release date speculation, trailers, gameplay, and more Horizon story explained: Everything you should know about Aloy’s journey so far Everything we know about The Callisto Protocol Gaming It's been over 10 years since we got the last game in the hit Skate series, and ever since, fans of the series have been asking when EA will finally return to this unique take on the skateboarding genre. In that time, the skating genre has seen a major resurgence. Not only has the Tony Hawk series made a comeback with the Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 1 & 2 remake, but other games like Skater XL and Skatebird have appeared to fill in this gap in the market.
However, no game has quite filled the void that Skate filled. Thankfully, we do know that Skate is happening. First announced way back during EA Play in 2020, there has been precious little information about this highly anticipated return to a more grounded style of a skateboarding video game. Even so, there are still a few details we've learned about what this next Skate game will look like and when we can hope to finally play it. Here's everything we know about Skate.
Gaming Featured in today's Nintendo Direct Mini, Dragon Quest Treasures is set to come to the Nintendo Switch on December 9.
Nintendo Direct Mini: Partner Showcase | 6.28.2022 Gaming Horror fans have been waiting for the release of the promising, crowdfunded Scorn game for a long time: Alpha footage debuted all the way back in 2014, showcasing a strong H.R. Giger atmosphere that had gamers (and Alien fans) eager to experience just what the mysterious title had to offer.
It took some time, but it looks like patience fans are finally seeing the wait pay off. Scorn has been given its most promising release date ever, and 2022 is the year we'll see it release. Here's everything we know.
Release date Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
