Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Reviews Returnal review: The PS5 finally gets its must-play exclusive By Giovanni Colantonio Close Fast combat Great risk-reward systems Engrossing story Immersive DualSense features Demanding difficulty Limited build options Returnal finally closes the gap between AAA and indie video games.
 While those worlds have often felt disconnected from one another, the new third-person shooter is proof that they can naturally meld together. Its DNA is just as rooted in indie gems like Dead Cells as it is in big-budget sci-fi shooters like Mass Effect.
Live, die, repeat Hollywood sci-fi The difficulty debate Our take The PS5 exclusive comes from Housemarque, a Finnish studio known for niche titles like Super Stardust and Nex Machina that draw influence from arcade shooters. The studio announced it was changing direction in response to lackluster sales, famously declaring “ arcade is dead.
” Fans feared that the pivot could squash what made the studio special, but it turns out that Housemarque’s version of a AAA game only amplifies its indie spirit.
The best PS5 controllers for 2023 The PS5 games with the best graphics The best PS5 games for 2023 Returnal is a bold sci-fi shooter that successfully breaks down the gaming industry’s long-standing genre barriers. While its punishing roguelite elements can get in the way of its narrative strengths, fast-paced combat and an enthralling atmosphere make it one of the more exciting top-tier PlayStation exclusives to emerge in quite some time.
Live, die, repeat Describing how Returnal works is no easy task. It may look like a standard third-person shooter, but that barely scratches the surface. It’s also a roguelite, a bullet hell game, and a Metroidvania adventure rolled into one (that’s a lot to process, I know). That hodgepodge of influences may sound like a “too many cooks” situation, but Housemarque is a master chef when it comes to genre fusion. Each flavor is perfectly balanced.
The basic premise is that players control an astronaut named Selene who’s found herself in a sci-fi version of Groundhog Day after her ship crash-lands on the planet Atropos. She must shoot and slash their way across six distinct biomes while picking up new perks, weapons, and upgrades along the way. When she dies, she’s sent right back to her ship with most of her gear removed.
Luckily, players don’t exactly start from scratch. There are clever progression hooks baked in. Beat a biome’s massive boss and the path to the next area will remain unlocked for the next playthrough. There are permanent skills that can be collected as well, like a grappling hook or metal leg attachments that allow players to walk on lava. That little bit of Metroid-style gear gating continually opens up secrets across the world and makes it fun to explore the randomly assembled map each time.
It’s an aggressive action game where it’s always fun to simply execute the basics.
Everything is glued together by fast-paced action. The movement itself is satisfyingly quick, allowing for an evasive ballet as giant space squids lob orbs in every direction. The guns are a blast to fire thanks to perks that permanently unlock over time and make each weapon type feel distinct. Guns use a short cooldown system instead of limited ammo, so players are encouraged to go wild in encounters. There’s also a powerful melee sword slash, which offers a solid incentive to charge headfirst into battle. It’s an aggressive action game where it’s always fun to simply execute the basics.
There’s a lot more complexity to speak of, like an adrenaline system that grants stat boosts every time players get three kills in a row without being hit. All those little systems come together to form an experience that always has its foot on the gas. It’s easy to see where Housemarque’s arcade roots come into play here.
Returnal feels like a top-down shoot-em-up reimagined as a big-budget 3D action game. The studio may claim that “arcade is dead,” but it’s alive and well in these high-octane battles.
Hollywood sci-fi Tonally, Returnal ’s closest comparison is to director Ridley Scott’s films. The game has Scott’s same signature brand of ominous science fiction, not unlike Alien or Prometheus.
Selene’s story is at once otherworldly and deeply personal. Ominous narrative sequences set inside Selene’s home, which mysteriously appears on Atropos, slowly build out her troubled history before it crescendos to a gripping emotional conclusion.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Without giving too much away, it’s a harrowing story that justifies the game’s cyclical roguelite setup. There’s something inescapable eating away at Selene that’s causing her to relive her past over and over. The journey isn’t so much about shooting every enemy in sight as it is uncovering a deeply repressed memory.
Much of the game’s haunting tone is achieved through Atropos itself, which is an ominous planet laced with danger. From a sprawling desert full of mechanical squids to an icy tundra that’s nearly devoid of organic life, Selene is truly cut off from society. It’s a lonely experience that invokes the uneasy isolation of games like Metroid Prime.
Returnal makes the most compelling case for the PS5’s tech we’ve seen yet.
Housemarque has gone to great lengths to immerse players in this setting. As a PS5 exclusive, Returnal takes full advantage of the DualSense controller to make Atropos feel more tactile. The haptic feedback simulates soft raindrops and slimy parasitic squirming. The controller’s built-in speaker drops some helpful sound cues as well, like a sharp squelch that indicates a weapon’s alt-fire has recharged.
Returnal makes the most compelling case for the PS5’s tech we’ve seen yet. While exclusives like Destruction AllStars reduced the Dualsense to a gimmick , Returnal shows how thoughtful details can help create an all-encompassing interactive experience to make a fictional planet feel real.
The difficulty debate Returnal ’s difficulty is sure to be a point of discussion. Like many roguelites, it’s a merciless and at times unforgiving video game. There are no additional difficulty levels or accessibility options to ease the experience for players. That can be extremely frustrating considering the compelling story it tells. Anyone who’s just in it for the narrative, but can’t keep up with the demanding action, is simply out of luck.
The problem here isn’t so much that the game is “too hard,” though that’s surely the broad criticism likely to surround it. Instead, it’s that Returnal doesn’t offer enough versatility when it comes to what constitutes a winning strategy.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Like other roguelites, each run is about constructing a successful build by making constant micro-decisions. The game gives players a consistent stream of risk-reward choices to make, whether through malignant items that can cause a temporary suit malfunction or parasites that grant one great perk on top of a debuff. These do an especially great job at changing the feel of each run and encouraging players to experiment with potentially risky side effects for high reward.
But sadly, it feels like there aren’t many recipes for success. Every single “good” run I had involved a defense buff and some form of suit repair that would heal me at low integrity. The runs where I had that could go on for hours and take me through multiple areas with ease. The ones where I didn’t were often inevitably doomed. Since items like artifacts appear at random, I often spent runs saving up my currency until I could find the right one. It also doesn’t help that players can only hold one gun at a time, reducing the potential to create a toolset that can tackle different situations.
Returnal doesn’t offer enough versatility when it comes to what constitutes a winning strategy.
Part of the problem is that failed runs don’t necessarily feel worth the effort. Barely anything of use carries over from run to run, and it can take hours to scour an area to get the power needed to tackle the next one. Stepping into a new biome after a long scavenging process only to be shredded in the first encounter is a deflating experience. It makes the runs that result in progress feel that much sweeter, but there’s an imbalance between success and failure.
It doesn’t feel as though players will be trading notes with one another about their eclectic winning builds. It’s more likely they share their misery and relief like they would in a Dark Souls game. Those conversations may create a barrier for entry that paves over Retunal ’s complex action and engrossing story, which deserve to be the center of attention.
Our take Returnal is a winning combination of big-budget production value and creative, genre-spanning gameplay that’s usually reserved for cult indie hits. It tells a haunting sci-fi story that thematically justifies its cyclical, roguelite setup. Demanding action combined with a lack of viable build options turn too many runs into frustrating nonstarters, but a compelling mystery and fast-paced action always provide a strong reason to die and try again.
Is there a better alternative? Hades is still the best roguelite out there, and there’s no shortage of great, high-budget space shooters, but Returnal is the best of both worlds for the most part.
How long will it last? That depends on skill due to its roguelite nature. Some players might clear the game in 15 hours. Others might take 40. Expect to land somewhere in between, with some daily challenges and post-game exploration to extend its life span.
Should you buy it? Yes. For PS5 owners, it’s the best exclusive to hit the console since it launched and may remain unchallenged on that front until Horizon Forbidden West.
Editors' Recommendations Got a PS5? Here’s how to get 6 free months of Apple Music The best PS5 exclusives The new 1TB PS5 has more usable storage space than the Xbox Series X All upcoming PS5 games: 2023, 2024, and beyond An internet connection is required to connect the new PS5’s disc drive Game Reviews Product Reviews Sony Gaming Sony consoles have always gotten multiple versions and editions ever since the original PlayStation 1. As technology becomes cheaper and more advanced, refreshed models that are both smaller and less expensive to produce typically come out a couple of years into a console's life cycle, and we have now hit that point for the PS5. The PS5 slim, as it is being referred to, is a smaller version of the launch models, and will eventually become the standard unit available to consumers once the stock of existing PS5s runs out. However, is this version worth getting if you're an existing owner, or is it only for new purchasers? There's also the question about which of the two versions to buy. To answer all these questions, let's compare the PS5 slim to the OG PS5.
Specs Let's start with the most important part, which is whether or not there's more power under the hood of the PS5 slim compared to the launch models. No, the PS5 slim is not in any way more powerful than an existing PS5. This is not a PS5 Pro, which is currently just a rumor. Games will not look, run, or play any better or worse on either version. The only difference in terms of specs is that the slim versions have slightly more storage space at 1 TB compared to 825GB, which is just a small 175GB upgrade. There's nothing here that makes it worth buying a new system when you can expand the storage of your console yourself.
Size Obviously, a slim model would mean that this new version would be smaller than the frankly comically large launch version. While that's true, it isn't a huge reduction in size. The PS5 Slim disc version weighs 3.2 kilograms (18% less that the original PS5) while the discless version weighs 2.6kg (24% less), and both are 30% smaller by volume.
Versions Once again, you will have the option to choose between an all-digital and standard version of the PS5 Slim. However, unlike the original discless PS5, the new version will give you the option to add a disc drive later on if you purchase a separate detachable drive.
Price The current PS5 models are priced at $400 and $500 for the digital and standard versions, respectively. While the PS5 slim standard version that includes the disc drive will remain at $500, the discless version will get a price increase to $450. This price increase had already been seen in other territories outside the U.S., but will now be introduced here once these new versions launch. It is also worth mentioning that the detachable disc drive you can get to upgrade your discless version will cost $80, meaning you would spend more to buy the digital version and add the drive than you would by simply buying the version with the drive already included.
Gaming The Sims franchise has been around for a while now and has become extremely successful thanks to its quirkiness and ability to rope players into its bizarre world. The most recent entry, The Sims 4, launched in 2014 and has continued the series' legacy, giving players a refined way to create a Sim, along with adding a hefty list of quality-of-life improvements. When you're ready to goof off and get even crazier, you might want to dive into the game's expansive selection of cheats, which grant you the ability to do all sorts of things, including a way to increase your stats, gain unlimited money, and negate (or cause) death.
Cheat codes in video games are mostly a relic of the past, but The Sims 4 still puts them at the forefront. There are dozens upon dozens of cheats. In this list, we'll share the absolute best ones, ranging from the most useful to the silliest, and everything in between. These are the best Sims 4 cheats.
How enable cheats on Sims 4 Gaming PS Plus Premium is adding a new feature next month that will allow subscribers to cloud stream select PlayStation 5 games. The initial list includes heavy hitters like Marvel's Spider-Man: Miles Morales and Horizon Forbidden West. Sony is targeting an October 30 launch in North America.
Cloud streaming has been one of the primary selling points of PS Plus since its relaunch last year. Subscribers can use the feature to access several games in the service's catalog, including PlayStation 3 games. The new feature will now extend that technology to newer PS5 releases, with Sony saying it plans to make "hundreds" of games streamable.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
