Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Features News Apple’s ‘new day’ for Mac gaming could actually work By Jacob Roach Close At WWDC 2022 , Apple said it’s starting “a new day” for gaming on Mac. That starts with two key new features that should help improve performance on Apple’s devices — most of which don’t have a discrete GPU — and a new application programming interface (API) that brings faster loading times to games. But will it work? Two major developments Games meet performance A consistent gaming experience It’s no secret that Mac gaming isn’t where it should be. Even the list of best Mac games are missing several key titles, and most Apple devices aren’t configured or tuned to offer high performance in the latest AAA games. But Apple hasn’t been resting on its laurels, and its lineup of new processors, modern gaming features, and broader game support could push Mac gaming over the edge.
Two major developments Image used with permission by copyright holder Outside of the new MacBook Air M2 , there were two major gaming announcements coming out of WWDC: MetalFX Upscaling and the Fast Resource Loading API. Apple was light on details as usual, but MetalFX Upscaling sounds like an upscaling feature in the vein of Nvidia’s Deep Learning Super Sampling (DLSS).
 In short, it boosts gaming performance by rendering the game at a lower resolution before upscaling to your monitor’s resolution. That increases performance while maintaining as much image quality as possible.
We don’t know much about the new Fast Resource Loading API, which is said to bring faster game loading times to games. This is likely similar to Microsoft’s DirectStorage and AMD’s Smart Access Storage , which leverage GPU file decompression to get loading times as low as 1 second. Apple says it “minimizes wait time by providing a more direct path from storage to the GPU.” Those new features are exciting for developers, but Apple also mustered a few game announcements. It said that No Man’s Sky, Grid Legends, and Resident Evil Village will be coming to Mac this year. In the case of No Man’s Sky, it’s actually coming to iPad and Mac, and it will be the first title to support MetalFX Upscaling.
Games meet performance Image used with permission by copyright holder Game support is the largest thing holding Mac gaming back, but Apple shows it’s set up to broaden support over the coming months. The M1 family and recently announced Apple M2 are the first devices that fit Apple’s design goals of efficiency in everyday use while packing in a gaming-capable GPU. The M1 Ultra may not be as fast as an RTX 3090 , but the fact that it’s even close is a testament to how powerful Apple’s silicon really is.
Of course, the M1 Ultra is an ultrafast processor in the expensive Mac Studio. And based on our testing of the MacBook Air M1 , the base chips aren’t ideal for gaming (even if they bring new performance levels for Apple). That’s where MetalFX Upscaling comes in, which is the linchpin for Apple’s new gaming push.
A consistent gaming experience Image used with permission by copyright holder A consistent experience is clearly important to Apple, which is why the company rarely splits hairs on specs when it comes to running different software. That doesn’t work for games, where titles like Resident Evil Village will certainly struggle to run on a low-spec MacBook Air (despite Apple’s claims). MetalFX Upscaling levels the playing field.
We don’t know how it works under the hood, but Apple says it applies resolution scaling and temporal anti-aliasing. It’s likely similar to Temporal Super Resolution (TSR), which is massive for Mac games. We’ve already seen TSR in Ghostwire Tokyo , and it can more than double frame rates while maintaining excellent image quality.
When showing off Resident Evil Village, Capcom manager Masaru Ijuin demonstrating the game running on everything from the MacBook Air to the Mac Studio, further emphasizing Apple’s commitment to a consistent experience across devices. This is a game that shouldn’t be able to run well on the M1, but MetalFX Upscaling enables it to, at least based on what Apple says.
At the end of the day, though, the success of Mac gaming comes down to how many games are actually supported. Apple is making a push, and its family of processors and modern gaming features set Macs up for success. But this will need to be a sustained effort — one where Apple continues to seek out new ways to cater to an audience that’s ignored its products for decades.
Editors' Recommendations A new iMac Pro could still launch. Here’s what I want from it Apple may have great news for Mac gamers at its ‘Scary Fast’ event Apple’s new M3 Macs could launch any day now, leak claims Apple’s M3 MacBook plans could be in jeopardy this year Apple’s big M3 MacBook event could be in danger Gaming Apple Apple WWDC Features PC Gaming Computing It’s likely we are now only a few weeks away from seeing Apple’s first Macs loaded with M3 chips, but the entire lineup has apparently just been leaked for all to see. And there are a few big surprises among the rumored Macs.
We’ve gained these revelations thanks to journalist Mark Gurman, whose reports are usually impressively accurate when it comes to upcoming Apple products. Gurman’s latest report is allegedly based on chip configurations Apple is testing internally, so things could change in the future.
Computing Apple has touted its Vision Pro headset as a premier gaming device that works with many different controllers. But with extensive gesture control seemingly used everywhere on the product except for gaming, it feels like a missed opportunity.
Well, that could change in the future, as a newly published Apple patent (number 11709554) shows how future editions of the Vision Pro could transform your hands into gaming controllers, complete with fingertip controls and haptic feedback.
Computing The Framework laptop has shown that modular laptops can offer something really compelling to customers, and it seems that Apple might have taken notice. That’s because a newly granted patent (number 11709527) suggests the Cupertino, California company is considering a modular MacBook that could let you come up with all kinds of crazy combinations of screen, keyboard, and more.
For example, some of the illustrations in Apple’s patent document show a device with two displays, with the MacBook keyboard replaced entirely by a second screen. This display could be used as an Apple Pencil input area or as a virtual keyboard, something we know Apple is already working on.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
