Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Guides The best survival games of all time By Joshua Hawkins Close Most of us wouldn’t want to end up on a deserted island or try to scavenge for food in a real zombie apocalypse. Fortunately, you can still get your heart racing and your blood pumping without having to actually fight off the undead or leave the comfort of your home.
Ark: Survival Evolved Rimworld No Man’s Sky DayZ Minecraft Don’t Starve This War of Mine The Forest 7 Days to Die Subnautica The survival genre has been around for a long time, and there’s a lot of great (and not so great) games to sift through. Check out the bests ones below.
Further reading Best Nintendo Switch games Best PS4 games Best Xbox One games Ark: Survival Evolved Image used with permission by copyright holder When it comes to survival, few have made the impact that Studio Wildcard has since Ark: Survival Evolved ’s first early access release in June 2015. Now, nearly five years later, the game has expanded and grown, offering a ton of content with DLCs and expansion packs. If you’re a fan of dinosaurs and fantasy creatures, Ark: Survival Evolved offers one of the best building systems in any survival game to date — and that isn’t even considering the plethora of mod content that the community has created.
Ark: Survival Evolved is available on Xbox One, PlayStation 4, PC via Steam , and even Nintendo Switch.
Best Black Friday gaming laptop deals: Cheapest prices today The best Call of Duty games, ranked Netflix subscribers are getting one of the decade’s best games Rimworld Image used with permission by copyright holder Part survival game, part colony management sim, Rimworld has been a staple of the survival game community for years now. Inspired by Dwarf Fortress , Rimworld offers players a hardcore survival management combo that throws you in headfirst. Work with your colonists to ensure they’re getting enough food, sleep, and protection, or your colony could fall prey to the harsh, alien worlds that you’re tasked to settle. Though it’s been two years since 1.0 release, Rimworld continues to grow and expand with new updates from developer Ludeon Studios.
No Man’s Sky Image used with permission by copyright holder When No Man’s Sky initially launched 2016, developer Hello Games faced one of the harshest backlashes any developer has ever seen. Fast forward almost four years, though, and No Man’s Sky has been polished and expanded to offer one of the best open-world survival games for sci-fi fans. Plus, Hello Games continues to add additional content to the game, further polishing the systems that the team has put into place. Full multiplayer, large-scale galaxies, and an entirely procedurally generated universe are just a few of the many features fans of survival games will find in No Man’s Sky.
DayZ Image used with permission by copyright holder Once heralded as the king of early access games, DayZ has seen quite a storied timeline. Despite the problems that it encountered over the years, players continue to flock to DayZ and its more realistic, hardcore approach to survival. With heavy roots in the ArmA series, DayZ always offered a much more hardcore experience for those longing for more from the survival genre. Just don’t expect anyone to hold your hand here, as most players are just as likely to handcuff you and leave you for the zombies wandering the streets of an eastern European countryside that makes up most of DayZ ’s map.
Minecraft Image used with permission by copyright holder You can’t make a list of survival games and not include Minecraft.
 While Minecraft had a humble beginning, the game quickly grew to be one of the most recognized titles in the gaming industry and spawned a new genre of similar games like Terraria.
 Years later, the survival mechanics within Minecraft still ring true. Players must eat, build shelter, and explore the rest of a massive world full of secrets and surprises, all while battling dangerous creatures, or even other players. Despite the success of the series and its spinoffs , the basic survival formula remains a go-to.
Don’t Starve Image used with permission by copyright holder Looking for a challenge? Don’t Starve is an uncompromising wilderness survival experience. Grab your torch and make your way through a world filled with danger and surprises. Creatures roam the world in droves, threatening your life with every step that they take. Gather resources, build up your camp, and work hard to stay alive as long as you can.
Don’t Starve has been a staple of the survival game genre for years. You can even get a little help in Don’t Starve Together , a stand-alone co-op-based game that offers the same challenges but with the added benefit (or detriment) of bringing your friends into the mix.
This War of Mine Image used with permission by copyright holder Despite pushing six years old, 11 bit Studios’ survival management game, This War of Mine continues to pull at our heartstrings. Filled with excellent writing, and gut-wrenching twists, This War of Mine puts players in control of a group of civilians caught in the middle of a war. You’ll have to make tough choices as you scavenge for food, upgrade your base, and deal with the constant dangers that come from all around as you explore a war-torn nation. If you’re looking for a more shelter-like survival game that still packs a punch, then This War of Mine deserves to be added to your library.
The Forest Image used with permission by copyright holder With a sequel already in the works, Endnight Games’ first-person survival game, The Forest , continues to delight. Set on an island filled with cannibal mutants, The Forest offers an intriguing and twisting story underneath all of its survival mechanics. Food, water, and shelter are all concerns at the forefront of your mind when playing The Forest , and the constant danger that comes from the trees around you will keep you on edge as you dig deeper into the mystery surrounding the game’s protagonist. Despite some rough years in early access, The Forest has come out on top as one of the best survival games available, and many are already looking forward to diving into the game’s sequel when Endnight Games releases it.
7 Days to Die Image used with permission by copyright holder Creating an engrossing and convincing zombie combat survival game is a challenge, especially trying to find a balance between providing players with all the exposition they need and keeping things moving along.
7 Days to Die manages it well and has established itself as one of the best zombie combat survival games on the market. Set in a post-apocalyptic landscape, players explore and scavenge while fighting off hordes of zombies. The giant voxel-based game offers a world ready to conquer, but you’ll need to defend your spoils. 7 Days to Die includes mechanics from the FPS, tower defense, survival horror, and role-play; it’s a winning romp for gamers craving hundreds, or even thousands, of captivating play hours.
$125 FROM AMAZON Subnautica Image used with permission by copyright holder While Subnautica had a humble start as an early access title, it quickly rose to extreme popularity. A riveting underwater survival adventure, players start with a crash into a water-based planet. You’re in survival mode from the start, building tech, a subaquatic base, and submarines just to stay alive. Once you create your home base, you’ll start traveling out and exploring the world and its creatures. While survival games are popular enough, Subnautica brought a unique flair with new challenges and a wholly original world.
$29 FROM AMAZON Editors' Recommendations The best handheld gaming PCs you can buy The best Mario games of all time, ranked The best PS5 exclusives All Master System game locations in Like a Dragon Gaiden: The Man Who Erased His Name The PS5 games with the best graphics Buying Guides Buying Guides Gaming Every time Kiryu thinks he's out, the Yakuza life pulls him back in. This once again rings true in Like a Dragon Gaiden: The Man Who Erased His Name, where we follow Kiryu after his last adventure, but before Ichiban takes up the mantle in Like a Dragon and the upcoming Infinite Wealth. Unlike the majority of the games in the series, you won't be running around the iconic Kamurocho, but mostly Sotenbori, Isezaki Ijincho, and the Castle. What remains the same is the numerous side stories and optional tasks that, for whatever reason, always seem to present themselves to the stoic and brooding Kiryu. One of those this time around is the "Gotta Catch Some Balls!" request given via the new Akame Network where you need to locate seven golden balls hidden around the maps. These are well-hidden little treasures in very dense locations, so here's the location of all seven in Like a Dragon Gaiden: The Man Who Erased His Name.
All gold ball locations The first six of seven balls can be obtained as soon as you have access to the location they're in. The seventh and final one is tied to a Stroll n' Patrol request that only appears later in the game as a reward.
Sotenbori gold ball locations No. 1: At the southwest end of W. Shofukucho Street, enter the Kiss Shot Billiards & Bar. This ball is one of the prizes you can get by exchanging 777 points, so play a few rounds to save up.
Gaming Blink while playing one of the best city-building games, and you'll lose countless hours expanding your city, refining your infrastructure, and focusing your trade. Ever since the original Sim City, we've been losing sleep designing the perfect utopias for our digital citizens, and as time has gone on, they've only gotten more satisfying to build.
Although city-building games usually carry a steep learning curve and tons of content, beginners can dive into any option on our list and have a good time. The genre has expanded to include tons of big hitters, with exciting sequels like Cities Skylines 2 on the horizon. We have a mix of hardcore survival experiences like Frostpunk and minimalist builders like Islanders, so there's something for everyone.
Gaming The PlayStation 5 is looking to dominate the console landscape with its incredible library of games. Like the rest of the industry, Sony saw several major game delays in 2022 (and more this year), but has since dropped several new hit games like God of War Ragnarok, the Resident Evil 4 remake, and Alan Wake 2, among others. There are plenty of games out on PS5 for every kind of gamer.
And there are plenty more great titles on the way — don't forget to check out our list of the best upcoming PS5 games that will come out later this year.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
