Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Reviews ‘Civilization VI: Rise & Fall’ review ‘Civilization VI: Rise & Fall’ changes things up, but isn’t a game-changer By Will Fulton Close $29.99 Adds needed structure to long game Solid new basic content More consistent, interesting decisions throughout Loyalty makes the map matter even more Additions lack narrative punch Still no World Congress or equivalent There’s always been a fundamental tension at the heart of Sid Meier’s Civilization games: should the games tell a story? Or should mechanics come first? On the one hand, each game of Civilization creates a dynamic reimagining of world history, which remixes familiar historical places and faces from our global saga into a new narrative — Shaka Zulu can conquer France and build the Statue of Liberty in Lyon. Civilization is also a rules-heavy beast of a strategy game, with numbers to crunch and a single winner. It has become increasingly difficult to reconcile these two experiential goals: Being both strategically interesting and narratively coherent the longer a game goes on, has left the series with famously uneven mid-to-late games.
With dependably solid opening acts, the project of each major Civ expansion, then, has historically revolved around established a more refined set of goals, and giving the player something to do besides click “next turn” for hundreds of years.
Gods & Kings and Brave New World did this for Civ V by adding espionage, religion, trade, and the World Congress. Barring that last one, Civ VI launched with all of those features , leaving its first expansion with a more nebulous brief.
Master Civilization VI with these starting tips for new players and veterans Civilization VI: Rise & Fall guide to Dark and Golden Ages Five more 2K Games titles that need to come to Nintendo Switch Rise & Fall fills out Civilization VI with a subtler suite of new systems that do a lot to smooth out the game and provide more interesting decisions throughout, but don’t add a lot to the overall story.
Related Guides Civ VI Strategy Guide Civ VI leaders and cultures Age of Aquarius Rise & Fall ’s most important addition is that it breaks up your overall progress through history into “world eras,” which correspond with the individual civ eras (Ancient, Classical, Medieval, etc.), but holistically for all of humanity.
Performing various actions in game nets you “Era Score” points, which are tallied at the end of each world era to determine whether your civ will spend the next one in a Dark, Normal, Golden, or Heroic Age (being a more powerful Golden Age coming out of a Dark Age), granting a selection of Dedication bonuses to help you define the coming epoch.
As the expansion’s name suggests, Ages are meant to capture the ebb and flow of cultures, bringing their periods of particular glory or struggle into sharp relief. Civs already naturally tend to peak at different points in the game, depending on when their unique abilities and units come to bear, so this formalizes it.
Ages are meant to capture the ebb and flow of cultures, bringing their periods of particular glory or struggle into sharp relief.
The system also helps push players to set structured goals between individual tasks like building a wonder and overall victory conditions. The infamous “just one more turn” spell of Civ is rooted in the game’s layering of short- and long-term goals. Just a few more turns until the Pyramids are built, but by the time that happens you’re nearly ready go clear that nearby barbarian camp, then you’re just a few turns away from unlocking a new government, and suddenly it’s 3 a.m. Ages mitigate the possibility of decision-making dry-spells throughout the game by ensuring you have mid-term goals to think about at all times.
In edge-cases, this can lead to new ways to think about your strategy, such as intentionally tanking an era to earn a Dark Age as Tamar of Georgia to fully take advantage of her powerful Dedication Bonuses when you bounce back and earn a Heroic Age, which confers more bonuses. In general, however, ages feel more like of a quality-of-life improvement than a new twist. It creates new ways to leverage and think about things that you were already doing, but the system doesn’t really add anything in-and-of itself.
Danger, Sid Meier! Many of the smaller new wrinkles in Rise and Fall , such as late-game “emergencies,” similarly address structural gameplay issues without really enhancing the fiction. When a player does one of a handful of powerful actions such as use a nuclear weapon, convert an enemy holy city, or conquer a city-state, the rest of the world is given a chance to unite together against them. Those that agree to the pact have a limited time to perform a goal (such as liberate the captured city-state) and earn a permanent bonus, at the risk of it backfiring and making their opponent that triggered the Emergency even stronger if they fail.
The long and open-ended nature of Civ VI makes it possible to snowball an early advantage into an unassailably strong position in the late game. Emergencies theoretically provide a little drag against runaway wins, without any obvious rubber-banding.
 In practice their triggers are very circumstantial, and they really only end up encouraging other players to do what they should already and unite to stop a clear leader. The risk and reward that Emergencies present are just a bit too subtle, and don’t really live up to their dramatic intent.
Mayor of Flavortown After Ages, governors are the most game-shaping addition of Rise & Fall.
 Unlocked and upgraded with Governor Titles associated with different civic policies throughout the game, governors add an element of ongoing worker placement to your city management. Each governor has unique abilities that can be further specialized over the course of the game. Pingala the Educator, for instance, can help build theater or campus buildings faster, while Victor the Castellan shores up your defenses. You can shuffle these around between cities at will, though they take several turns to become established, giving the decision a bit more weight.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Like Districts, the specialized city tiles introduced in VI that spread your cities across the map into discrete parts, governors offer players another way to differentiate cities and make each one functionally unique within their empire. While districts are permanent, governors can be shuffled around to meet your evolving needs, like bringing Victor, a wartime governor, over to support a new front, or sending Pingala, a science and culture governor, to your big production center once you’re ready to begin the space race. They are also vulnerable to tampering from spies, disabling them for a period of turns before you have to reassign them — using spies to protect our key governors and districts from sabotage preoccupied several of our mid-to-late game stretches.
Governors become especially important as your civilization grows, as they are keystones for a new mechanic called Loyalty, which replaces the long-running happiness system. Cities now have a Loyalty meter effected by things like their overall happiness, the quality of your Age, proximity to your other citizens, and the presence of a governor. When Loyalty drops too low a city can rebel and go independent (with its borders and units turning red like barbarians). Free cities are susceptible to swapping their Loyalty to nearby civs exerting enough pressure by virtue of their proximity.
Cities rebelling due to a growing disconnect from the mainland is a wonderfully flavorful mechanic..
The switch to loyalty didn’t really impact our ability to grow our civilizations in play, but the system makes settling cities on foreign continents a much trickier proposition. New cities that are too far away from the reassuring embrace of the motherland are insecure, and their Loyalty will quickly zero out if you don’t install a governor. Capturing and holding enemy cities also poses a much trickier proposition, especially if they are not on a shared border.
Cities rebelling because of a growing disconnect from the mainland is a wonderfully flavorful mechanic, and is easily the juiciest addition in Rise & Fall.
 In general, loyalty keeps borders dynamic in the late game, particularly without combat, and is a solid mechanical addition.
In practice, though, it often didn’t quite create the interesting new scenarios we hoped it would. In one of our games, Germany settled the small city of Hamburg on the far side of our continent. Unable to retain its Loyalty, the Hamburg went independent, forcing Germany to send troops up to get them back in line. Germany could never do so for long, however, leaving Hamburg ultimately as a sad, angry little city-state.
The start of that exchange could be the story of the American Revolution, and fans have long asked for a mechanic that allowed for splintering player nations, to better mirror the budding and inconsistent growth of real nations. Unfortunately, that story can’t quite pan out under the current mechanics, as independent cities can’t acquire any agency or unique character if left to their own devices.
Our Take Taken purely on its own terms, Civilization VI: Rise & Fall successfully extends the base game with a heretofore unseen level of overarching structure and new systems that elegantly dovetail into the existing game and fill it out with more consistent decisions throughout. We can’t help but feel a little underwhelmed overall, though, given that many of the series’ past expansions forced players to completely rethink how they play.
Gods & Kings and Brave New World added whole new ways to play Civ V.
Rise & Fall undeniably improves Civ VI as a game, but far more subtly. Running with the board game-derived elegance of V ’s overhaul to the rules, VI perhaps cements Civ’s role as a game first and a historical simulation second. These are iterative changes focused around balance. With Paradox’s stable of grand strategy games like Europa Universalis IV and Crusader Kings II leaning into elaborate alternate history, Civ is left to be an impossibly elaborate board game.
Rise & Fall is an admirable evolution in that direction, but we worry if the messier part of its character is being lost along the way.
Is there a better alternative? No. While the complete version of Civilization V, including Brave New World and Gods & Kings, offers much of the same fundamental experience as VI at a fraction of the price, Rise & Fall does introduce some unique new elements to the series.
How long will it last? Like all Firaxis expansions, Rise & Fall’ s additions is pervasive and greatly extends the base game’s lifespan, particularly as a platform for modding. You will encounter its content early and often in any game, instantly refreshing the Civ VI experience for another several years at least.
Should you buy it? If you’re looking for more Civ VI , Rise & Fall is an inarguably solid expansion of the base game’s content, but its additions might not be enough to bring over Civ V holdouts or new players.
Editors' Recommendations Marvel’s Midnight Suns delayed, moving it out of a busy October Civilization VI: All 42 leaders and cultures Civilization VI is this week’s Epic Games Store freebie Stand-alone XCOM spinoff Chimera Squad will release next week Civilization VI tries to cash in on battle royale craze with new Red Death mode Game Reviews Product Reviews Gaming Lego sets bring joy to our and our kids' eyes. They can help build real problem solving skills by following instructions, encourage creativity by dismissing the instructions and making fun modifications, or be the tools to create something entirely on our own from the ground up. There are tons of Black Friday Lego deals, as you might've guessed, but few places due it as well as Walmart does. Between official Black Friday deals and associated clearance items, the retail giant now has over 80 sets on sale as part of its Walmart Black Friday deals. Go shop the sale now via the button below or read on to see our favorite picks.
Our favorite Walmart Black Friday Lego deal Web With so many Black Friday deals already under way, it can be tough to keep on top of everything. Walmart has dozens of different awesome deals so we've narrowed things down to the best Walmart Black Friday deals currently available. There's a little bit of everything here with discounts on TVs, headphones, laptops, coffee makers, and much more. The retailer is also having a massive Black Friday Lego sale. Whatever you're considering buying, keep reading while we take you through some great options.
Other retailers have started early too, so check out Amazon Black Friday deals and Best Buy Black Friday deals.
Gaming Who doesn't love LEGO? If you're looking for the perfect gift for your kids or yourself, you can save some money during LEGO Black Friday deals. We've pulled some of our favorite options from the most popular LEGO sets, including Marvel, Star Wars, Technics and Speed Champions. There are also some generic sets at the bottom. Most of these are part of the massive Walmart Black Friday LEGO sale, so check that out too. While there are early Black Friday deals, they may not last until the actual shopping event. If you see something, you should grab it today.
Black Friday LEGO Marvel deals The LEGO and Marvel collaboration has brought joy to children for years now. If you want a cheap way to collect figures from your favorite Marvel comics, movies and TV shows, LEGO sets are a great place to start. Below we've pulled some cheap sets that include adult-focused sets like the Infinity Gauntlet and full-size action figures as well as some kid-friendly sets that focus on a mini-fig with some scenery.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
