Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Upcoming Nintendo Switch Games Connect Nintendo Switch to TV Free Nintendo Switch Games Cancel Nintendo Switch Online Best Nintendo Switch Games Charge Nintendo Switch Controller Nintendo Switch Accessories Nintendo Switch Controllers Nintendo Switch vs Switch Lite Home Gaming Guides Cuphead bosses ranked from easiest to hardest to wallop By Steven Petite Close Cuphead has a handful of run-and-gun platforming levels, but it’s all about the boss battles. Each of its 19 bosses is immaculately rendered in the 1930s cartoon art style so ingeniously designed by StudioMDHR.
19. The Root Pack 18. Goopy Le Grande 17. Werner Werman 16. Cagney Carnation 15. Hilda Berg 14. Ribby and Croaks 13. Phantom Express 12. Sally Stageplay 11. Baroness Von Bon Bon 10. Captain Brineybeard 9. Cala Maria 8. Djimmi The Great 7. Wally Warbles 6. Beppi The Clown 5. Grim Matchstick 4. The Devil 3. Rumor Honeybottoms 2. Dr. Kahl’s Robot 1. King Dice This isn’t a Saturday-morning cartoon you can sit back and relax with, though.
Cuphead offers a serious challenge almost immediately and only gets harder as Cuphead and Mugman collect soul contracts.
All Cuphead bosses have multiple phases, making each one a perilous fight that requires twitchy movements and keen pattern recognition. Now that Cuphead has been ported from Xbox One /PC to Nintendo Switch , we decided to rank the boss fights by difficulty, from easiest to hardest, at least until The Delicious Last Course DLC launches later this year.
The best places to find Purple, Ice, Pink and Rock Pikmin in Pikmin 4 All Flarlic locations in Pikmin 4 The best single-player games Further reading Cuphead beginner’s guide The best indie games on Nintendo Switch The best Xbox One exclusives 19. The Root Pack Image used with permission by copyright holder Out of the gate, two boss fights are unlocked on Isle One. The Root Pack, a battle against three rather large vegetables, is one of them. The Root Pack serves as a perfect crash course in Cuphead , as it shows off the multi-phase format without overwhelming the player. In the first phase, a potato spews clumps of dirt at you. In the second, an onion incessantly cries, forcing you to dodge the tear shower from above.
The final phase, a psychedelic carrot, demonstrates how many bosses will soon have more than one move per phase. The carrot shoots homing baby carrots in your direction and shoots hypnosis rays from its eyes. It’s a fairly easy fight once you get used to the flow of Cuphead , but since it’s first, it still poses a challenge.
18. Goopy Le Grande Image used with permission by copyright holder Goopy Le Grande is the other possible first boss. The blue glob starts off small, bouncing around the stage and occasionally ballooning into a thunderous punch. Then it becomes enraged, growing to a massive size while retaining the same core moves.
The final phase sees Goopy’s tombstone shimmy across the screen as he tries to flatten you like a pancake.
Goopy Le Grande is trickier than The Root Pack because it’s harder to dodge the moves. You have to really have control over the dash ability. Even then, Goopy is a proper introduction to how much of your success relies on trial and error and recognizing patterns — which can take several attempts (or more).
17. Werner Werman Image used with permission by copyright holder Werner Werman is an oddity. The rat who dwells in a soup can is located in Inkwell Isle Three, the final stand before Inkwell Hell. He should be one of the hardest bosses in the game simply based on location. He winds up being one of the easiest, however.
In his first stage, Werner slings various projectiles your way, but all of them move slowly. The second stage sees a column of retractable bottle caps on each side of the screen with Werner in the middle on a spring-loaded flamethrower seat. You simply have to get either below or above Werner and dodge any incoming bottle caps.
Everything is telegraphed and slow-moving, so it’s not much of a challenge. A large cat controlled by Werner ups the challenge a bit in the final phase, but the ghosts who throw the projectiles can be easily dispatched. Considering that to get to Werner, you have to beat about a dozen boss fights, the rat is a startlingly benign encounter.
16. Cagney Carnation Image used with permission by copyright holder Cagney Carnation quickly turns from smiling flower to angry killing machine with the ability to shoot damage-inducing seeds into the air from a machine gun. Cagney Carnation, though an Isle One boss, can be a bit tricky. It’s the first boss that really emphasizes the importance of parrying pink projectiles simply because dodging all of the seeds that turn into flying plants that chomp (like Pac-Man) can be a pain.
Cagney’s physical attack, an alarming lunge, can be dodged easily. Cagney’s final phase is all about dodging with Cuphead’s dash move and avoiding the roots that threaten to impale you if you’re on the wrong hovering platform.
15. Hilda Berg Image used with permission by copyright holder Some Cuphead bosses take place in the air, with Cuphead commanding an adorable tiny plane. These bosses are generally some of the hardest in their respective Isles, simply because you’re forced to dodge much more. You do have a fuller range of motion in flight, but that doesn’t necessarily make the multi-phase fights any easier.
Hilda Berg has a neat design, a mix between a helicopter and blimp while riding an airborne unicycle. Avoiding her “Haha” projectiles and bullets in phase one can be daunting at first. Then she turns into a bull, then an archer, and finally a crescent moon with a face. UFOs, for some reason, threaten you from above along with projectiles. It’s a lot to manage, but once you get into a groove, it’s possible to get through this fight almost entirely unscathed.
14. Ribby and Croaks Image used with permission by copyright holder This pair of boxing champ frogs represent the hardest challenge in Inkwell Isle One. In the first two phases, you must dodge projectiles from both Ribby and Croaks. If you use the Chaser, you can blow through these phases. The real challenge comes when the slot machine enters the screen. Parrying the handle while dodging coins is hard enough, but the real test comes when the slot machine opens.
You can get one of three results: Frog, Bull, or Tiger. The Tiger attacks are by far the hardest, as you have to dodge swift-moving platforms and bouncing balls all at once. To compound matters, you can only deal damage to the slot machine when it’s open and attacking you. Some luck is involved here, as rolling the Tiger even once can mean death if you aren’t nimble with jumps and dodges.
13. Phantom Express Image used with permission by copyright holder Phantom Express is the last fight before Inkwell Hell, so it’s surprising that it’s really not all too difficult. The most difficult aspect of it is that you’re confined to a rail cart that needs to be parried on either side to move it. You’re up against a ghost/skeleton throughout four phases.
It’s one of the lengthier fights, but it’s fairly easy to avoid most of the projectiles and well-telegraphed moves. As long as you parry the rail cart ahead of the attacks, you shouldn’t have much of an issue dodging what the spirit throws at you. The final phase is a bit tricky since you must parry the contraption’s tail to open up the engine, but it’s a short phase.
12. Sally Stageplay Image used with permission by copyright holder Sally Stageplay has a grand show to put 0n for her audience, but this Isle Three boss doesn’t pose enough of a threat to keep you from seeing the curtain call. Sally’s first phase is one of the easiest in the entire game, while her second stage is all about moving to the right spot and continue shooting.
This second stage is the hardest, forcing you to dodge little RC cars and baby bottles dropped from above. Her third phase brings in props that can easily be dodged, and her encore is equally weak. Considering it’s an Isle Three boss, the skills you’ve amassed up until this point will make it somewhat of a breeze after you get the second phase down.
11. Baroness Von Bon Bon Image used with permission by copyright holder Baroness Von Bon Bon, the lovely candy queen, throws a variety of sweet-toothed minions your way before you have a chance to take her down. Like Ribby and Croaks, this fight has a chance involved. She has five minions but you’ll only see three of them per run. Minions like Sir Waffington III and Kernel Von Pop make it harder, while Muffsky Chernikov Sargent Gumbo Gumbull makes it easier.
And yes, Baroness Von Bon Bon and her minions have the coolest names in the game. The final phase sees candy wheels and flying projectiles attempt to save the queen. It’s a fight that takes trial and error and learning each of her minion’s movesets.
10. Captain Brineybeard Image used with permission by copyright holder Captain Brineybeard has a nice boat that he doesn’t want to share with anyone else at all. He’s also capable of conjuring sharks, octopus, and shoot wrecking balls from said boat. At first, Brineybeard is an overwhelming foe, simply because he has so many different tools in his arsenal.
You have to contend with the squid gun projectiles and barrel that periodically drops from above at all times. There’s just a lot going on, which makes it tough. Brineybeard’s second phase sees the ship’s mouth open. It’s a short phase, but dodging the projectiles and avoiding the huge laser beam attack can be difficult for sure. Brineybeard is best beat with a combination of the Chaser and Spread weapons.
9. Cala Maria Image used with permission by copyright holder Cala Maria, a plane boss, has a solid one-two punch in her first two phases. You have to dodge various projectiles throughout the whole first phase. Getting through this portion unscathed, however, is crucial considering that she has the power to turn you into stone in the second phase.
Once that happens, you have to spam on the buttons to break free before getting hit by electric bolts sent from her storm of eels. Her final phase is thankfully easier, as you simply have to shoot her head while maneuvering through a tunnel, avoiding projectiles and obstacles.
8. Djimmi The Great Image used with permission by copyright holder Djimmi The Great is also a plane boss, spanning across four phases. His first two phases have a mix of homing projectiles that are hard to avoid without shrinking your plane. In his coolest phase, Djimmi takes control of a puppet that looks like Cuphead.
Once you get through that, you have to fight a giant head while three pyramids that shoot out beams in all directions circle around you. It’s a tough finale. Like other plane fights, avoiding damage early is key.
7. Wally Warbles Image used with permission by copyright holder Wally Warbles is an angry caged bird who Cuphead has to take on through the air in Isle Two. Wally slings eggs in your direction in the first phase. These eggs break off into three pieces that are hard to dodge. The key here is sticking to the left edge of the screen, which protects you entirely from the broken off pieces of the eggs. Wally then flaps his wings furiously, unleashing a sea of feathers that must be nimbly dodged.
The third phase requires you to move about the entire screen, avoiding the eggs that circle around a now mostly hairless Wally. Wally’s final phase isn’t as long as the others, but you have to dodge a string of projectiles while shooting grenades on Wally’s ailing body below. though Wally is an Isle Two boss, we’re ranking him as the second hardest aerial fight.
6. Beppi The Clown Image used with permission by copyright holder Beppi The Clown has one of the most benign movesets in the game — in isolation. The problem here is that these moves stack together throughout the clown’s four phases to make him a grueling marathon. The first phase is very simple, but in his second phase, you have to avoid balloon dog heads and the rollercoaster that passes by.
In his third phase, you deal with Beppi on a carousel horse, spewing horseshoes either in a swaying motion across the screen or in a timed sequence straight down. Because the rollercoaster is still present, you can get stuck in seemingly impossible situations if you aren’t careful.
The final phase is equally challenging because you have to jump across the Ferris wheel while avoiding baseballs thrown at you from below. If you make contact with the ground, it’s hard to avoid damage.
5. Grim Matchstick Image used with permission by copyright holder Grim Matchstick, an Isle Two boss, has a reputation for being exceedingly difficult.
 And while this is obviously true based on the dragon’s placement on our list, it’s really only the third phase that is incredibly trying. The first two phases, with practice, can be beaten without taking any damage fairly routinely.
The final phase, however, is really, really hard. Here you have to avoid the fire orbs that gravitate towards you. If you accidentally shoot one open while trying to hit Grim, the fire goes north, south, east, and west. And if you’re right next to the orb? You’re getting hit. Not to mention you have to be on the top level of the clouds when he shoots his flamethrower. The final phase is probably the second hardest boss phase in the whole game.
4. The Devil Image used with permission by copyright holder Cuphead ‘s final boss is certainly challenging, but it’s not the hardest fight in the game. The first phase is all about recognizing patterns and getting a bit lucky with the randomized sequence of attacks. Some projectiles are easier to dodge than others.
The second phase drops you below ground to face off against The Devil’s giant head. This phase can be a challenge if you don’t properly situate yourself on the platforms to avoid the bomb blasts. The third phase is where things get really tough, as you have projectiles flying at you from everywhere but below, and you have very little space to work with.
The final phase has somewhat of a “gotcha” moment. Makes sense seeing as the Devil plays tricks on people, right? In this phase, you only have one small platform to stand on. Dodging the remaining tears and fiery rings can be a head-scratcher unless you remember to coordinate your jumps to move away before landing back on. It’s actually a really simple final phase, but it’s just as easy to get tripped up by it.
3. Rumor Honeybottoms Image used with permission by copyright holder Rumor Honeybottoms, an absolutely brutal queen bee, meets you at the start of Isle Three. All throughout the fight, the screen moves up, forcing you to jump from platform to platform avoiding attacks. The first phase isn’t too hard, as you simply have to eliminate a worker bee while avoiding a few projectiles.
The second phase, however, is awfully challenging. Rumor either plunges down left, right, or in the middle of the screen. If she’s left or right, she’ll use one of two attacks: large floating orbs, or triangles that start literally on top of you and shoot pellets out of the corners. If she’s in the middle, she’ll shoot missiles that trace the platforms.
It’s a huge challenge simply to get to her final phase. Then, of course, it’s not over. Now an airplane, Rumor sends flying fists to chase after you. She’ll also use huge circular saws to slice across half of the screen. Keep in mind, you still have to navigate the moving platforms, too. Fighting Rumor Honeybottoms is like getting stung over and over again.
2. Dr. Kahl’s Robot Image used with permission by copyright holder Dr. Kahl’s Robot is by far the hardest aerial fight in the game. From the start, it’s maniacal. You have to take out the ray gun attached to its head and two compartments on its frame. The robot’s lower cavity shoots out Galaga-esque ships while the chest cavity unleashes a contraption that creates a perpetual laser from the top of the screen to the bottom that must be parried.
Even after taking out these three weak points, you have to destroy the heart. A magnet makes the bolts and screws coming your way a challenge to avoid — not to mention the homing missiles. The second phase has you avoiding the robot’s detached head and missiles at the same time. If the missiles get close to you, they’ll explode.
Finally, you’ll face off against Dr. Kahl himself. Throughout the duration of the fight, you’ll have to avoid little electric currents that litter the screen and steer through electric barriers. Dr. Kahl’s Robot is a ridiculously challenging fight from start to finish.
1. King Dice Image used with permission by copyright holder King Dice, the nefarious casino owner who does The Devil’s bidding, is a boss rush in itself. There are nine mini-bosses here, and you’ll have to fight at least three of them before squaring off with the King himself. Each boss is tied to a spot on the table. Roll the dice, land on a boss. For reference, here are the nine mini-bosses, in order: Tipsy Troop Chips Bettigan Mr. Wheezy Pip and Dot Hopus Pocus Phear Lap Pirouletta Mangosteen Mr. Chimes Facing off against this myriad of bosses is manageable, but only if you plan accordingly and thoroughly cover your ground. Each boss, from Phantom Express to Dr. Kahl’s Robot, will only have one main phase. Your goal is to collect as many health points as you can before the fight. Landing carefully during the battle will add an extra hit point, which will grow your health numbers. By building up your health numbers, you’ll stand a chance in your fight. If you take on significant damage before the battle, you could lose against King Dice.
King Dice sometimes seems invincible, but he has an Achilles heel. In his fight, he uses one card trick. If you know how to beat that, you can easily overcome him. When King Dice moves his fingers across the screen, you’ll see a charging deck of cards. Block him from the top of the pink heart cards, and you will avoid damage.
You can also look to Cuphead as an ally. With its dash ability, it can help you slide through the groups of cards in the seconds when King Dice switches between attack and countermove. To beat him, attack his head directly. Once you’re able to manage all of these tasks, you will be unstoppable in the game.
Editors' Recommendations Where to find planes in Fortnite OG Where to find each onion color in Pikmin 4 Fortnite Artifact Axe: how to destroy stones and best location This trick guarantees you’ll get bots only in every Fortnite match Marvel’s Midnight Suns for Nintendo Switch canceled ahead of last-gen launch How-To Microsoft Nintendo Nintendo Switch Xbox Xbox One Gaming Star Wars is once again taking over Fortnite with the brand-new Find the Force event, which brings a ton of new quests, items, and cosmetics to the popular battle royale. If you want to complete the full event reward track and earn all of the skins, one of the quests you'll need to knock out is opening a Republic Chest. Of course, you may want to seek these out each game anyways, as opening them will reward you with a new DC-15 Blaster, which is an immensely strong firearm that has infinite ammo and excellent range. Here's where to find Republic Chests.
Where to find Republic Chests and what's in them Republic Chests can be found at three locations on the Chapter 4 Season 2 map. You'll find some located about halfway between The Citadel and Shattered Slabs, some to the west of Slappy Shores, and some by the road southwest of Frenzy Fields. Land at one of these spots and search the white tent-like buildings there for the chests.
Each Republic Chest contains one of the new DC-15 Blaster firearms alongside a selection of random support or healing items. You'll commonly see Medkits, Small Shield Potions, and Chug Splashes pop out, so you shouldn't have much trouble getting prepared for battle from the items you get from the Republic Chests.
Gaming While the last-gen Xbox One isn't as powerful as the Xbox Series X, it's still a worthwhile console and has a huge library of great games.
If you're looking to stay competitive while playing online multiplayer games versus next-gen console and PC players or are just looking to avoid some wonky console interface that's difficult to navigate, you may want to try using a keyboard and mouse with your Xbox One. A keyboard and mouse will give you better precision than your standard Xbox One controller so you can keep up in cross-platform games without shelling out money for a top gaming PC.
Gaming There are so many classic games from the past that have become difficult for new players to experience. The farther away in time we get from these games' releases, the more difficult it can get to not only get the game itself but also the extra hardware needed to play them. That alone is a major barrier that turns people away from playing games many consider to be some of the greatest of all time. And that's not even taking into account dated graphics, controls, and mechanics.
Remakes offer a new generation a chance to experience some of the most influential games of the past, as well as give fans of the originals a brand new way to play them all over again. The best remakes take what made a game so great before and modernize it for the current audience without losing that magical spark. It isn't an easy process, but here are the games that managed to pull it off.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
