Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Guides How to dominate the underworld in Hades By Tom Caswell Close Indie darling Supergiant’s latest game Hades is finally out as a full release following two years of early access. The game is a roguelike that follows Hades’ son Zagreus on his mission to escape the underworld in search of his mother Persephone in the mortal realm. Commanding the prince of hell with different weapons and powers, you will slay demons as you push through several unique realms of Hades’ domain. If you should die, it’s back to square one, only this time with a slightly more powerful Zagreus.
Always be moving Don’t be frugal Look for the Cursed Slash boon Talk to everyone Open every Chaos portal With over 1,000,000 copies sold, and some online claiming it to be game of the year, it seems that Hades is more popular than ever. If you’re one of the many people finally checking it out, here are some tips to dominate the underworld.
Always be moving If there’s one piece of advice to employ while playing Hades , it’s dash, dash, dash. Zagreus, no matter which weapon he wields, will always have four core moves. A basic attack, a special attack, a ranged magic attack, and a dash. Each chamber will be filled with a variety of creatures that attack in different ways, and standing still will most likely result in death. An added bonus of dashing is that you are invulnerable while doing it, so as long as you’re spamming that button, your chances of death dramatically decrease. Just make sure not to end on a trap. If you do, that’s right, dash.
The dash can also be modified to double as an attack Image used with permission by copyright holder Don’t be frugal When a chamber ends, you are given a reward. This may be an increase in your max health, a temporary power-up gifted by the gods, or an item that you can spend to permanently buff Zagreus even after death. After completing a chamber, more often than not, you are then able to choose between a handful of subsequent rooms based on their reward. If the door to a chamber is marked by a coin purse with a golden skull, it’ll take you to the River Styx boatman Charon, the in-game vendor. If you have the obals (gold) for it, buy everything he has to offer, unless you have no need for it, like health when you’re already maxed out.
Netflix subscribers are getting one of the decade’s best games All stash locations in Alan Wake 2 and how to open them How to change suits in Spider-Man 2 This mindset can be used throughout the game. Upon death and your return to the House of Hades, you will have acquired gemstones, keys, and darkness, each of which can be spent on a variety of things. Don’t hesitate to use them as often as possible and deplete your collection of them.
Hades is a game won by a thousand replays, and slowly building out Zagreus is the way to go, versus hoarding your resources and spending them in sporadic but large increments.
Charon is one of the less chatty characters in the game Image used with permission by copyright holder Look for the Cursed Slash boon One of the options for rewards is the Daedalus Hammer, which grants an improvement, known in the game as a boon, to the specific weapon you are wielding on that run. If your weapon of choice is the default Stygian Blade, one of the three options with the Daedalus Hammer will be the Cursed Slash. This will cut your max life by 60%, but you will be gifted two health points for every hit, and with how fast a slash of the Stygian Blade is, you will quickly rack up health.
Comparatively, the only other ways to heal in the game are infrequent, with a rare drop from an enemy or Charon supplying it in his store providing desperately needed relief. While the game is still challenging with this boon equipped, it certainly takes a bit of the stress out of playing. Yes, your max life is cut by 60%, but that pales in comparison to the gains of 2 health points per hit. Plus, you are still able to acquire max life increases after the reduction, so you can quickly alleviate the negative side effect.
Some might call it overpowered, others will call it a godsend. We were able to make it through two and a half realms with this boon without perishing, which is quite the feat. If you want to make life easier for yourself, but don’t want to go as far as turning the permanent God Mode buff on, the Cursed Slash is an excellent choice.
The Cursed Slash is only offered when wielding the Stygian Blade Image used with permission by copyright holder Talk to everyone Hades is an impressive game on many levels. Its artistic design and soundtrack are masterfully crafted, its combat is incredibly satisfying, and the voice performances from top to bottom are a delight. Every new run, there will be slight changes in the world thanks to your actions, and you can be sure that the other characters in the world will have something to say about them. Make sure to always talk with every character you can as often as you can, as not only does part of the game’s charm stem from these interactions, you will have the option to offer them nectar you have acquired in your journey. Each character gifted with Nectar will add a new relic to your collection, yet another modifier that you can equip before embarking on a new run.
Progressing further into the game unlocks new side characters. Chatting with and offering them nectar improves your relationships with them, and some light dating sim elements get sprinkled into the mix. Talking with these characters is as integral to the game as its combat.
Hades will taunt Zagreus every time he dies Image used with permission by copyright holder Open every Chaos portal During a run in Hades , you might come across a Chaos portal, which will take you to the realm of the sculptor of the universe Chaos themselves. There’s a couple of catches though. Opening one of the portals will cost some health, although not a permanent max life cut like the Cursed Slash. In addition, Chaos will offer one of three boons like every other deity, but these will come with a temporary hindrance that, once seen through, will grant you a buff for the rest of that run. Nine times out of 10, the reward will always be worth the negative side effect. Unless you are dangerously low on health before jumping through the portal, it’s recommended that you go through it.
Chaos exists between the underworld and the mortal realm Image used with permission by copyright holder Like any good list of tips, these are more guidelines than strict rules, and you might find some exceptions to them, or perhaps different ones that are better suited to your playstyle. That said, these fundamentals are a great place to start before defying your father Hades and making your way through hell.
Editors' Recommendations How to fix packet burst in Modern Warfare 3 How to rank up fast in Modern Warfare 3: best ways to farm XP How to get every ending in Lords of the Fallen All suits in Spider-Man 2 and how to get them How to solve molecular identification puzzles in Spider-Man 2 Features Gaming Is there any doubt that Peter Parker and Miles Morales are heroes by the time Spider-Man 2 takes place? As goofy as it sounds, you will still need to prove your hero status by earning what are known as Hero Tokens. Just like City Tokens, these are more conceptual objects than actual tokens, but are still required for some of the higher-level upgrades and unlocks for your tools in the game. Still, not every heroic action is deemed worthy of getting you Hero Tokens. If you want to know all the activities to collect as many as you can in Spider-Man 2, we've narrowed down your search.
How to get Hero Tokens There are plenty of options for you to get Hero Tokens, but the most efficient are the Mysteriums. Also known as Mysterium dev diaries, these unlock after you meet Mysterio in the story and then they start to populate the map. There are only 10 of these, and they each consist of time trials that rank you based on time. Earning a gold will get you two Hero Tokens, while silver and bronze award you just one. So long as you're a skilled player and can get a gold time in one or two attempts, this is easily the fastest method to get these tokens. For one, you obviously have to go fast here, but when you get a gold, you also get the rewards for the two ranks below, so each Mysterium is really worth four tokens if you can master it.
Gaming The Prowler, aka Miles Morales' uncle, has hung up his hood and retired from his life of crime by the time Marvel's Spider-Man 2. Even so, after a talk with Miles, it is revealed that he left quite a few stashes of materials around the city that, since he is under house arrest, he can't access anymore. Rather than let them go to waste, you're sent out to collect these little resource caches to use for yourself. These are an easy way to earn yourself some Rare Tech Parts, but the Prowler didn't just leave them out in the open. Here is a breakdown of how you can access Prowler Stashes in Spider-Man 2.
How to open Prowler Stashes Once you get into the area where a Prowler Stash is, the hunt begins. The first step is locating the stash, which is camouflaged, so you need to use your mask to track it down. By holding down L2, you can scan the area and follow the sounds until you narrow down the correct spot. You have to aim at the right spot and be close enough to reveal it.
Gaming Amid all the different tokens, memories, and photo-ops you need to collect in Marvel's Spider-Man 2, the one material that is both the most common and most necessary is Tech Parts. With the exception of your abilities, which only require skill points you earn by leveling up, essentially everything you can unlock or upgrade in the game will cost Tech Parts alongside one other material. You might think you will never run low early on when you start getting them in batches of over 100 at a time, but once you start unlocking all the slick new suits and styles and gadgets you want to upgrade, you'll realize just how desperate you are to get more. Your spider-sense can't help you with this one, so here are the best ways you can get Tech Parts in Spider-Man 2.
Best ways to get Tech Parts Tech Parts are the most basic upgrade component in Spider-Man 2, and the city is full of them. But you're better off using these methods to get them rather than others.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
