Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Reviews XCOM 2: War of the Chosen Review 'War of the Chosen' is everything we wanted in an 'XCOM 2' expansion By Will Fulton Close $39.99 Enriches great base game with fantastic variety Chosen and resistance factions add personality More ways to personalize soldiers Fun, powerful new classes 'Star Trek: TNG' voice cast If anybody knows how to make a proper video game expansion, its Firaxis.
Civilization V and XCOM: Enemy Unknown were both solid games at launch, but it was only with the addition of packs like Gods & Kings, Brave New World , and Enemy Within did they become modern masterpieces.
 When we spoke to XCOM 2 lead designer Jake Solomon at E3 about its upcoming expansion, he gave us the impression that War of the Chosen would indeed be that full, Firaxis-style “add-in” we’ve been craving. With the time finally here for our XCOM 2: War of the Chosen review, we are happy to report that it more than delivers on that promise.
Without changing the basic shape of the game, War of the Chosen adds variety with new allies, enemies, and missions, as well as even more ways to give your soldiers personality and memorable stories.
War of the Chosen makes an already-great game really sing by achieving a critical mass of variety in XCOM 2 ‘s sandbox.
Star Wars Jedi: Survivor is being review-bombed on Steam as a ‘total crap’ PC port Advance Wars 1+2: Re-boot Camp gets new release date following Ukraine-related delay PlayStation VR2’s launch lineup features more than just Horizon Call of the Mountain Heroes and villains The largest, sweeping additions to the base game are the eponymous Chosen; three unique, elite Advent units that show up and harrass you on your missions as you attempt to bring down the Avatar project. In principle, they’re similar to the elite enemies from XCOM 2’s Alien Hunters DLC — ultra-powerful units that can jump in and complicate your life during any mission.
The Chosen are a richer execution of the same concept. Where the rulers of Alien Hunters could feel frustratingly powerful, taking actions in response to every move your soldiers make, the Chosen are tough, but fair. When crashing a mission, the Assassin, Hunter, or Warlock, take a moment to announce their presence, mock you, then make a single powerful move. They do everything from summoning reinforcements and taking area-of-effect shots, to knocking out or even kidnapping your soldiers (though that may lead to you mounting a rescue operation later).
Taking a cue from Shadow of Mordor’ s Nemesis system, each of the Chosen has randomized strengths and weaknesses that inform how to best take them down. The stealthy assassin in our game could avoid overwatch shots, and was immune to melee damage, but was susceptible to explosions, ensuring that we brought an extra grenadier whenever we expected the Assassin to be there. Your nemeses acquire more strengths as time goes on, forcing you to adapt your tactics. Their harassment extends to the strategic layer as well, messing with you by clamping down on regions in retaliation, reducing their income, or stealing unused upgrades from the Avenger.
If anybody knows how to make a proper video game expansion, its Firaxis.
Just as Mordor ‘s nemeses gave a fantastic amount of narrative color to an otherwise endless orgy of orc murder, so to do the Chosen bring a lot of life and specificity to your struggle against Advent. When they jump into your missions it always creates an exciting tension for how you will deal with them on top of whatever other objectives you’re already pursuing. Moreover, populating the strategic layer with more agents that can mess with you adds a charming level of personality to a part of the game that previously felt more sterile than the tactical level.
You’re not alone in facing the Chosen, however. The expansion also introduces three independent resistance factions, which can lend you powerful new soldier classes that correspond to the weaknesses for the three respective Chosen.
The reapers surpass rangers as XCOM’s best infiltrators: They’re faster, stealthier, and packing a sniper rifle that can be used even after taking an action.
The templars, brutal melee fighters, also steal the rangers’ thunder. They build up psychic energy with attacks that can be saved for static buffs or unleashed in special moves.
Lastly, the skirmishers are ex-Advent soldiers that make excellent flankers, with a grapple to zip around the map as a free action and a bullpup rifle that can fire multiple times per turn. All three resistance classes start off much more powerful than your standard units, and only get better with experience Sharp-eared players might notice that the new characters include several actors from Star Trek: The Next Generation , such as Jonathan Frakes (Commander Riker) as the leader of the Reapers, or Marina Sirtis (Counselor Troi) and Michael Dorn (Worf) as the Reaper and Skirmisher characters, respectively. It’s fun to recognize them, though at times they feel a bit under-utilized giving awkward gameplay barks like calling for more ammo.
In addition to giving you some extra muscle, the resistance factions also add a new activity for the strategic layer, Covert Actions. Soldiers can be sent on away missions for various goals such as training exercises or stealing alien loot. Soldiers risk capture, injury, or ambush (where you have to play out their escape), but sometimes the risks can be mitigated by spending supplies, intel, or extra soldiers.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Most crucially, each faction can conduct a series of three covert actions to track down the stronghold of their respective rival Chosen. Completing these unlocks a particularly challenging assault on their home base. Succeed and you will have removed a major threat and be rewarded with extremely powerful, unique weapons.
Baby, you got a stew going The strategic arc of XCOM 2 is entirely defined by the abstract counter for the Avatar Project, which ticks up until you lose or assault facilities to hold it back for longer until you can complete the final mission. While the general outline remains the same, adding the Chosen and the resistance factions fills out the game with mid-term goals and many more moment-to-moment choices.
More than any one feature, War of the Chosen ’s greatest addition is the sheer amount of variety it adds to the base game.
 On top of the Chosen and resistance factions and the covert missions, there’s also a new system of soldier bonds a la Fire Emblem or personality traits like in Darkest Dungeon.
The Lost, a new zombie threat, shows up by the horde during missions and attacks both you and advent. Killing Lost with a headshot grants a free action if you succeed, changing the tempo and adding a new risk-reward dynamic to fights where they show up. There are also just a wide variety of new mission types thrown into the mix to keep you on your toes.
Firaxis’ series reboot, XCOM: Enemy Unknown , was a fantastic modernization of a strategy classic, but it offered a relatively narrow scope of play, with particular optimal techniques emerging on both the tactical and strategic layers such that any one game looked mostly like any other.
Enemy Within broke that up with the addition of Meld canisters to force more aggressive action within battles, and XCOM 2 took it even further by inverting the power fantasy to make you a scrappy, adaptable underdog.
War of the Chosen fulfills the base game’s promise by adding more variety and unpredictability to your play, undermining optimal strategies to encourage more playful experimentation.
Its additions touch all of the game’s many-layered systems, making their contribution to the whole experience more than the sum of its individual parts.
Adding a cherry to this cake is a new Challenge mode that serves up daily challenges to complete tough missions within a 30-minute time limit and then compare your score to global and friend leaderboards. Like multiplayer, these special missions feature units from both Advent and XCOM, letting you play with characters you would not be able to in the base game. It’s a fun way to enjoy the game’s fantastic, tactical playground without worrying about a mission’s implications for the strategic long run.
Our Take XCOM 2 was one of our favorite strategy games when it launched in early 2016, but we haven’t played much since our first few games.
War of the Chosen has thoroughly sunk its hooks into us, and we anticipate many late nights for months to come as we master its new challenges. Firaxis has smartly revised its own ideas and integrated mechanics from other games to strike a perfect balance between familiar and fresh. The ideas it adopted from Shadow of Mordor and Darkest Dungeon were actually two of the mechanics we hoped other developers would rip off this year.
Veterans will be drawn back by the wealth of new toys at their disposal, but there’s never been a better time for new players to get onboard as well. The content from War of the Chosen integrates seamlessly whether it’s your first time or your hundredth, making it a strictly better and more interesting game. Good luck, commanders.
Editors' Recommendations You can get NBA 2K23 and more with PS Plus this June Dead Island 2 avoids Star Wars Jedi clash by bumping up its release date WWE 2K23 brings the pain with John Cena, Cody Rhodes, and Bad Bunny 2K warns users to beef up cyber security after support team gets hacked New Tales from the Borderlands unveiled, launching in October Game Reviews Product Reviews Gaming The Avengers and every other Marvel hero set to assemble in Marvel's Midnight Suns are taking a raincheck. The 2K and Firaxis Games tactical role-playing game starring Marvel's cast of heroes is being delayed once more, likely into 2023.
Marvel’s Midnight Suns | “Darkness Falls” Trailer Gaming It's that time of the year again. Basketball games have had their ups and downs, but NBA 2K23 is shaping up to be a return to form for the beloved sports franchise. Set to release on September 9, 2022, this is going to be the premier choice for those wanting to dive deep into the most robust basketball sim on the market. This edition brings a host of new features such as the Jordan Challenge, a new MyCareer adventure, and creating your own character in The City.
As always, NBA 2K23 is giving you a lot of options for how you want to invest in the game. Not only do they offer different rewards, but they also have unique covers that might further entice you to go for one over another. If you already know you're going to be investing in this game come launch, it can save you some time and money to check out these different editions first so you can pre-order the version best for you.
Gaming Legendary NBA player Michael Jordan has been crowned as the cover star for NBA 2K23 by 2K Sports. Specifically, the face of His Royal Airness will grace the cover of NBA 2K23: Michael Jordan Edition, while his iconic #23 Chicago Bulls jersey will be on the cover of the premium NBA 2K23: Championship Edition.
NBA 2K23 | Michael Jordan Edition Trailer | 2K Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
