Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Upcoming Nintendo Switch Games Connect Nintendo Switch to TV Free Nintendo Switch Games Cancel Nintendo Switch Online Best Nintendo Switch Games Charge Nintendo Switch Controller Nintendo Switch Accessories Nintendo Switch Controllers Nintendo Switch vs Switch Lite Home Gaming Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best Nintendo Switch accessories By Jesse Lennox Close Anyone who has ever bought a video game console before knows that you can’t only buy the console. On top of that price tag, you’ll also need to factor in games to play and possibly other accessories. The Nintendo Switch is not an exception to this rule, which is why we've hand-picked the essential Nintendo Switch accessories to enhance your gaming experience.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
More More More More More More More More Nintendo Nintendo Switch Pro Controller More traditional controller.
Easy to connect Less prone to drift Doesn't work with every game When you want a more conventional controller experience, the aptly titled Pro Controller is the way to go. Although you can separate the Switch’s Joy-Con controllers for a greater range of motion, they lack the ever-important D-Pad that’s essential for many games.
The Nintendo Switch Pro Controller is our favorite way to play the Switch. With an increased analog stick size and big, responsive buttons, the Pro Controller rivals the quality of both the Xbox One and PlayStation 4 controllers. It’s a bit pricey at $70, but the Pro Controller should be at the top of your Switch accessory wishlist — ahead of an extra set of Joy-Cons! Image used with permission by copyright holder PDP Wired Fight Pad Pro Best Smash controller for Switch Great for retro gaming Changeable parts Wired option only Super Smash Bros. Ultimate is one of the most popular games on Nintendo Switch, but playing it with the Joy-Con or even the Pro Controller feels downright wrong. You can use an adapter to plug in official GameCube controllers, but PDP offers an alternative with great performance in Smash and other games.
The Wired Fight Pad Pro has a shape and stick layout almost identical to the GameCube controller. It features a standard right analog stick you can swap out for a C-stick. Even more, it retains the Switch’s capture and home buttons along with shoulder buttons, making it compatible with most Switch games.
Image used with permission by copyright holder 8BitDo Wireless Controller Adapter Lets you use your favorite controllers Cheaper than most controllers Can be used on multiple devices Takes a bit to set up We include 8BitDo’s controller Bluetooth adapter because you probably already own a few great controllers designed for other consoles. If you simply love their feel, save some money and purchase this adapter to keep the good times rolling on Switch.
Simply plug this adapter into a USB-A port on the Switch Dock. After that, you can pair the Xbox One S/X Bluetooth controller after a firmware update. For PlayStation owners, you can use the DualShock 3, DualShock 4, and DualShock 4 Pro controllers. It’s compatible with the Wiimote, Wii U Pro, Switch Joy-Cons, and Switch Pro, too.
Yes, it’s weird to use a PS4 controller on Switch at first, but it’s also pretty darn awesome. You can also use the 8BitDo Wireless Controller Adapter with Windows, MacOS, Android, Raspberry Pi, and Retrofreak.
Image used with permission by copyright holder PowerA Fusion Pro Wireless Controller Fully customizable Back paddles Wired and wireless modes Expensive A step above the regular Pro Controller, the PowerA Fusion has everything you want from a more standard gamepad but with the added functionality of having four back paddles to make it easier to keep your thumbs on the sticks. The overall construction of this controller is also amazing, feeling secure, weighty (but not heavy), and durable. It can also be used either wired or wirelessly and comes with a rechargeable battery.
More Image used with permission by copyright holder Nintendo Joy-Con Charging Grip More comfortable Cheap Easy to slide in and out of Doesn't charge your Joy-Cons Joy-Cons charge while attached to the docked Switch. When you use them individually or together in the console's bundled grip, they eventually need the Switch to recharge.
Nintendo’s Charging Grip looks and feels like the bundled model. However, it charges the attached Joy-Cons using a pass-through current via a USB-A to USB-C tethered connection to the dock. This device does not include a rechargeable battery.
Ultimately, the Charging Grip performs like a makeshift wired controller while it recharges the attached Joy-Cons. The Nintendo Joy-Con Charging Grip could be a cheaper alternative to purchasing the Pro Controller.
More Image used with permission by copyright holder HORI Switch car charger Recharge on the go Fast charging Compact and easy to store Not all cars have this outlet The Nintendo Switch is great for long road trips, but the battery doesn’t last forever. If your car provides USB ports for charging, you could use a USB-C to USB-A cable to charge the console. If not, your next option is to use the car’s cigarette lighter-style 12V auxiliary power outlet and a compatible charger.
Enter the HORI Switch car charger. Built for 12V auxiliary power outlets, it features a 6-foot cable with a USB-C connector on one end and a DC adapter on the other. This length allows you to access the adapter from anywhere in your vehicle. It’s also compact so you can store it at all times.
The HORI Switch car charger adapter supports 5V/3A for high-speed charging.
More Image used with permission by copyright holder PowerA Joy-Con Charging Dock Charges up to four controllers at once Fast charging Small form factor Imprecise charging indicators This charging dock comes in handy if you have additional Joy-Cons. It supports up to four inactive controllers simultaneously, allowing for a constant rotation of gaming goodness.
To charge, slide each controller down into a slot, just as you would on the Switch. A dedicated LED on top shines red when charging and green when complete. The PowerA Joy-Con Charging Dock features a weighted base and an underside cable.
Anker PowerCore Essential 20000 PD Huge battery life Light and easy to travel with USB-C fast charging Pricey This behemoth of an external battery can add around 15 more hours of playtime to your Switch, plus it can be used to charge as you play. The Anker PowerCore Essential 20000 PD features a USB and USB-C charging port, allowing you to power two devices at once if you need. The USB-C, of course, allows for lightning-fast charging. The entire thing weighs under a pound and can easily last your entire trip before needing a charge itself.
Image used with permission by copyright holder HORI Multiport USB Playstand Easy to transport Great for two players on the go Sturdy build quality Limited adjustment options Want to take your Switch to a friend’s house and use it in tabletop mode? You can easily do so with the system’s internal stand or an inexpensive plastic accessory, but you won’t have the dock’s USB ports. There’s no way to tether multiple controllers simultaneously using these methods.
The HORI Multiport USB Playstand solves this problem by supplying four USB-A (2.0) ports. It cradles your Switch while providing an adjustable viewing angle and a small profile for the ultimate tabletop mode. It has a power pass-through component as well, so you can connect the official AC adapter and keep your Switch charged.
More Image used with permission by copyright holder S-Charge Sleek charging Holds a good charge Not super heavy Stand is somewhat flimsy Playing your Switch in handheld or tabletop mode is a great option for gaming on the go, but your battery can die quickly. With the S-Charge (previously SwitchCharge), you not only get a far superior stand than the Switch’s built-in version but also an included 10,000mAh battery to keep your Switch fully charged for hours.
The S-Charge packs two slots to store extra game cartridges and a single USB-A port to charge your smartphone while you play. You’ll also find a USB-C port to connect the Switch power adapter to charge both the console and the stand’s built-in battery. You can plug it directly into the dock as well.
Lamicall Adjustable Switch Stand Works with tons of devices Very adjustable Won't slip or fall No built-in charger Technically, this stand was made for tablets, but the Switch works perfectly with this device that lets you freely adjust the viewing angle in a secure, lightweight, stand. The rubber feet make it stick to any surface you place it on, and the two joints let you set the screen exactly where it's most comfortable. While it can't charge the Switch via a battery, there's ample room to plug in your device.
More Image used with permission by copyright holder myCharge Sleek design Can be used in tabletop or handheld mode Up to 10 hours of extra playtime Battery indicator not helpful myCharge is one of the top-of-the-line portable charging battery packs you can get for your Switch. It secures easily, isn't too bulky, and can give you up to 10 more hours of playtime on a full charge. It powers your console via 7000mAh and a 1.5A output, plus it doubles as a much better kickstand than the Switch's default stand. The handy LED light indicators make it easy to know just how much time you have left before needing to worry about charging the pack itself.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Samsung EVO+ 256GB UHS-I microSDXC U3 Memory Card Huge storage Super-fast loading Very easy to install A little expensive The Samsung EVO+ 256GB UHS-I microSDXC U3 Memory Card should all but solve your storage issues (for most players, at least). With class-10 speed from one of the most respected manufacturers in storage, you can’t go wrong. It supports read speeds of up to 95MB per second. The 256GB of storage is almost overkill, but if you have gone all-digital, this is the one to get to avoid running out of space.
More Image used with permission by copyright holder AmazonBasics Vault Case Very sturdy Extra space for games Foam interior Not the highest-quality option on the market You don’t always need to carry around your Nintendo Switch with all of its accessories. Occasionally, all you’ll need is the system itself and a few extra games. That’s where the AmazonBasics Vault Case comes in handy.
The AmazonBasics Vault Case sports a rugged hard-shell design to protect your Switch against accidental bumps. Inside, it provides enough room to cradle your Switch and has a game-storage flap holding up to eight cartridges. A foam insert provides additional padding, complete with cutouts for the Joy-Cons’ analog sticks and face buttons.
If you’re traveling on a bus or plane, however, there are a few more worthy options.
Image used with permission by copyright holder RDS Industries Game Traveler Deluxe System Case Tons of storage Comfortable handle Airport-safe Big When your Switch needs ultimate on-the-go protection, this is the case to grab. It’s a hard-shell briefcase featuring organized slips for everything Switch-related. It houses all the necessary Switch components and even includes dust-proof cases for both games and microSD cards.
The RDS Deluxe System Case works well for those wishing to take their Switch through airport security — or simply to a friend’s house. We love this case, but consider it a secondary case alongside the PDP model.
More Image used with permission by copyright holder PDP Nintendo Switch Elite Player Backpack Cool design Soft fabric Intuitive pocket design Not a ton of storage space Need something larger? Go one size up with PDP’s Switch backpack. If you’re constantly on the go with your Switch at your side, it’s a convenient and safe way to transport your beloved console.
The PDP Elite Player Backpack handles all your Switch goods: the console, dock, cables, games, six extra Joy-Cons, a Pro Controller, headphones, and even a laptop. Internal pockets present screen-printed labels so you know what goes where. Note that this bag is not TSA-ready.
Image used with permission by copyright holder ZAGG InvisibleShield Tempered Glass Screen Protector Very scratch-resistant Easy to put on Smudge- and finger print-resistant Hard to remove if needed The Switch ships with a plastic screen that’s prone to scratches. That means you should purchase a screen protector as soon as possible. We highly recommend tempered glass, as plastic protectors accumulate scratches while the tempered glass remains crisp and clear.
Cut perfectly to fit the Switch’s screen, the ZAGG InvisibleShield Tempered Glass Screen Protector is your final solution for protecting your device. It is designed to resist all scratches and dents, as well as smudges and fingerprints thanks to an oil-resistant design. Applying the screen is easy, and the tabs eliminate any danger of air bubbles forming underneath.
More Editors' Recommendations Best Black Friday gaming laptop deals: Cheapest prices today Nintendo Switch Black Friday deals: Consoles, games, and more Best PS5 SSD Black Friday deals: Add more storage to your PS5 now The best PS5 controllers for 2023 The best Switch controllers for 2023 Best Products Nintendo Nintendo Switch Gaming If your chair is ripping apart or just plain not comfortable anymore, now is a great time to get a new one. As it turns out, Black Friday deals are in full swing, even though it is earlier than when we would traditionally start thinking about the shopping holiday. That means you can get tons of gaming chairs, including some of the best gaming chairs, for incredibly low prices. At this point, one deal is sticking out to us like a sore thumb. As a result, we'll be putting extra attention on it during this article. However, if you want a more comprehensive list of great early Black Friday gaming chair deals, we've got them at the bottom.
Best gaming chair Black Friday deal The blue AKRacing Core Series EX Gaming Chair is our favorite Black Friday deal so far, and for many reasons. To start with obvious factors, it is discounted by over 25%. You can get your blue AKRacing Core Series EX Gaming Chair for $280 today, while it would be $400 on a regular day. That's a savings of $120. Another big factor is that it is an official Best Buy Black Friday deal, and is labelled as such. That gives us a ton of confidence in its price being the best price available.
Web Best Buy is one of the key retailers when it comes to offering fantastic Black Friday deals. That means it's the perfect place to check out awesome TV deals, laptop deals, and even great sales on appliances too. With hundreds of options newly available, we've helped you out by picking out some highlights. Below, you'll find all the best Best Buy Black Friday deals on TVs, laptops, gaming PCs, headphones, appliances, and other items too.
Best Buy Black Friday TV deals Gaming The Nintendo Switch has had a lot of success in the nearly six years since its release. The console-handheld hybrid has been on the market since 2017, and a slew of fantastic games from first- and third-party developers have launched over the course of the system's life cycle. Recently, heavy hitters such as Metroid Dread, Pokémon Scarlet and Violet, and Kirby and the Forgotten Land have boosted the system's appeal, while a healthy list of upcoming Switch games continues to drum up excitement.
There are plenty of incredible games to enjoy on the Switch right now. But which ones should you check out? These are the best Nintendo Switch games (including free-to-play titles) for 2023.
Action Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
