Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best Wii games of all time By Jacob Roach , Gabe Gurwin and Joseph Yaden Close Few video game consoles stirred up as much buzz as the Nintendo Wii.
 Before motion-tracking software was considered standard fare and shovelware began popping up left and right to take advantage, Nintendo looked to revolutionize the gaming landscape with the Wii.
The Wiimote and Nunchuck control system gave gamers a new way to game and opened the door for a new generation of interactive gaming. From brand-new motion-based party games like Wii Sports and Just Dance to groundbreaking installments to classic Nintendo series like The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess and the Super Mario Galaxy , the Wii quickly became home to a stellar lineup of games for all ages.
Many of the best Wii games were Nintendo’s first-party titles that still maintain premium real estate in entertainment centers. Here is our roundup of the best Nintendo Wii games ever.
Further reading: The best Xbox 360 games of all time The best PS3 games of all time The best Wii U games of all time Wii Sports Wii Simulator, Sport Nintendo EAD Group No. 2 Nintendo November 19, 2006 Read less Wii Sports Resort Wii Sport Nintendo EAD Group No. 2 Nintendo July 24, 2009 Read less Super Smash Bros. Brawl Wii Fighting, Platform, Hack and slash/Beat 'em up Sora Nintendo January 31, 2008 Read less Kirby's Epic Yarn Wii, Wii U Platform, Adventure Good-Feel Nintendo October 14, 2010 Read less Xenoblade Chronicles Wii, Wii U Role-playing (RPG) Monolith Soft Nintendo June 10, 2010 Read less Wii Party Wii NDCube Nintendo July 08, 2010 Read less MadWorld Wii Hack and slash/Beat 'em up Platinum Games Spike, SEGA of America, Sega Europe March 10, 2009 Read less Donkey Kong Country Returns Wii, Wii U Platform, Adventure Retro Studios Nintendo November 21, 2010 Read less Animal Crossing: City Folk Wii Simulator Nintendo EAD Group No. 2 Nintendo November 16, 2008 Read less Super Mario Galaxy Wii, Wii U Platform, Adventure Nintendo EAD, Nintendo Nintendo November 01, 2007 Read less Super Mario Galaxy 2 Wii, Wii U Platform, Adventure Nintendo EAD, Nintendo Nintendo May 23, 2010 Read less Metroid Prime 3: Corruption Wii, Wii U Shooter, Platform, Adventure Retro Studios Nintendo August 27, 2007 Read less The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess Nintendo GameCube Role-playing (RPG), Adventure Nintendo EAD Group No. 3 Nintendo November 19, 2006 Read less The Legend of Zelda: Skyward Sword Wii, Wii U Platform, Puzzle, Role-playing (RPG), Adventure Nintendo EAD Group No. 3, Nintendo Nintendo November 18, 2011 Read less Mario Kart Wii Wii Racing Nintendo EAD Nintendo April 10, 2008 Read less Muramasa: The Demon Blade Wii, PlayStation Vita Role-playing (RPG), Adventure Vanillaware Ignition Entertainment April 09, 2009 Read less No More Heroes 2: Desperate Struggle Wii, PC (Microsoft Windows), Nintendo Switch Hack and slash/Beat 'em up, Adventure Grasshopper Manufacture Ubisoft Entertainment, Rising Star Games, Marvelous Entertainment, Marvelous, Marvelous Europe Ltd., XSEED Games January 26, 2010 Read less Monster Hunter Tri Wii Role-playing (RPG) Capcom Production Studio 1 Capcom August 01, 2009 Read less Mario Strikers Charged Wii, Wii U Sport Next Level Games Nintendo May 25, 2007 Read less The Conduit Wii, Android Shooter High Voltage Software, War Drum Studios Sega, High Voltage Software June 23, 2009 Read less Fire Emblem: Radiant Dawn Wii Role-playing (RPG), Strategy, Tactical Nintendo SPD Group No. 2, Intelligent Systems Co., Ltd.
Nintendo February 22, 2007 Read less New Super Mario Bros. Wii Wii, Wii U Platform, Adventure Nintendo EAD Nintendo November 12, 2009 Read less Super Paper Mario Wii, Wii U Platform, Puzzle, Role-playing (RPG), Adventure Intelligent Systems Nintendo April 09, 2007 Read less Punch-Out!! Wii, Wii U Fighting, Sport, Adventure Next Level Games Nintendo May 18, 2009 After a 15-year hiatus, Punch-Out!! returned with a bang as one of the only story-driven boxing games around. Players once again step into the boots of Little Mac as he works his way through the professional boxing circuits, battling against several colorful characters to become the World Video Boxing Champion. Players maneuver effortlessly through boxing matches by utilizing Wii’s remote control, whose technological sophistication is unparalleled. The remote control’s format allows players the ability to coordinate their punches accurately so that they may earn “stars” that will afford them more dominant moves.
“Title Defense” mode jacks up the difficulty, adding new counter moves for the computer-controlled opponents to use, and the included multiplayer is a ton of fun, where players build power before transforming into a hulking behemoth to deal massive damage.
Read less WarioWare: Smooth Moves Wii, Wii U Puzzle Intelligent Systems Co., Ltd., Nintendo SPD Group No. 1, Nintendo Nintendo December 02, 2006 If there was any doubt about the Wii’s place when it comes to party consoles, the multiplayer extravaganza that is WarioWare: Smooth Moves leaves no question about it. Players compete in various short “microgames” that take less than 10 seconds. These games, all loosely roped together by the story and hysterical introductions, involve activities like frying food and shaving mustaches.
Even non-gamers will love Smooth Moves.
 It’s easy to get the hang of and its overall absurdity makes it addictive.
Speed is of the utmost importance in this game, and some of the game’s strange objectives will have you manipulating your Wiimote at strange angles. As a fun bonus, some microgames toss out entertaining references to other Nintendo games.
Read less Editors' Recommendations The best handheld gaming PCs you can buy The best Mario games of all time, ranked The best PS5 exclusives The PS5 games with the best graphics The best city-building games on PC Nintendo Gaming The PlayStation 5 is looking to dominate the console landscape with its incredible library of games. Like the rest of the industry, Sony saw several major game delays in 2022 (and more this year), but has since dropped several new hit games like God of War Ragnarok, the Resident Evil 4 remake, and Alan Wake 2, among others. There are plenty of games out on PS5 for every kind of gamer.
And there are plenty more great titles on the way — don't forget to check out our list of the best upcoming PS5 games that will come out later this year.
Gaming The Nintendo Switch has had a lot of success in the nearly six years since its release. The console-handheld hybrid has been on the market since 2017, and a slew of fantastic games from first- and third-party developers have launched over the course of the system's life cycle. Recently, heavy hitters such as Metroid Dread, Pokémon Scarlet and Violet, and Kirby and the Forgotten Land have boosted the system's appeal, while a healthy list of upcoming Switch games continues to drum up excitement.
There are plenty of incredible games to enjoy on the Switch right now. But which ones should you check out? These are the best Nintendo Switch games (including free-to-play titles) for 2023.
Action Computing While some of the best laptops are designed to cater to different types of users and purposes, you're going to need a gaming laptop if you want to play the best PC games. That's because these machines are designed to meet the strict requirements of gamers, which also makes them a bit more expensive. Fortunately, there's no shortage of gaming laptop deals online, and to help you make your choice, we've rounded up some of the top offers right here. Whether you're on a tight budget or you're aiming for a powerful machine, there's something here for everyone.
HP Victus 15 (Intel) -- $550, was $900 The HP Victus 15 is one of the cheapest gaming laptops in the market, but it still provides decent performance with the latest 13th-generation Intel Core i5 processor, Nvidia GeForce RTX 3050 graphics card, and 8GB of RAM. With these specifications, you can play today's most popular games, but you'll have to go with low to medium graphic settings for the more demanding titles. The gaming laptop is also equipped with a 15.6-inch Full HD screen with a 144Hz refresh rate, and a 512GB SSD with Windows 11 Home pre-loaded.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
