Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best Zelda games, ranked from best to worst By Steven Petite and Jon Bitner Close The Legend of Zelda series is one of the most iconic video game franchises of all time. Ever since its debut on NES in 1986, Nintendo has consistently delivered awe-inspiring experiences that often define entire console generations. More than a handful of Link’s adventures are among the greatest games ever created.
That makes ranking The Legend of Zelda series a challenging endeavor. We did just that, though — from the 8-bit era all the way to the high-definition open-world game of Breath of the Wild (and its new sequel Tears of the Kingdom ). Our journey through the history of The Legend of Zelda starts now.
The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild Wii U, Nintendo Switch Role-playing (RPG), Adventure Nintendo Nintendo March 03, 2017 Read less The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time 3D Nintendo 3DS Platform, Puzzle, Role-playing (RPG), Adventure Nintendo EAD, GREZZO Co.,Ltd.
Nintendo June 16, 2011 Read less The Legend of Zelda: The Wind Waker HD Wii U Platform, Puzzle, Role-playing (RPG), Adventure Nintendo EAD Group No. 3 Nintendo September 26, 2013 Read less The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom Nintendo Switch Role-playing (RPG), Adventure Nintendo EPD Production Group No. 3 Nintendo May 12, 2023 The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild was always going to be a difficult act to follow. How can you possibly make the best game of all time even better? Tears of the Kingdom rises to that challenge in spectacular fashion with one subtle change. While it’s structurally similar to its predecessor, the emphasis isn’t so much on exploration as it is experimentation. Link can fuse together weird weapons and vehicles in the sequel, completely changing how he interacts with a familiar Hyrule. It’s enough to make Breath of the Wild feel brand new again, a task that seemed impossible before its release. That makes for one of the best direct Zelda sequels ever, even if it doesn’t feel quite as fresh as its predecessor did when it first launched.
Read less The Legend of Zelda: Link's Awakening Nintendo Switch Adventure GREZZO Co.,Ltd.
Nintendo September 20, 2019 Read less The Legend of Zelda: A Link to the Past Wii, Super Nintendo Entertainment System (SNES), Wii U, Super Famicom, New Nintendo 3DS, Satellaview Role-playing (RPG), Adventure Nintendo, Nintendo EAD St. GIGA, Nintendo November 21, 1991 Read less The Legend of Zelda: Majora's Mask 3D Nintendo 3DS Role-playing (RPG), Adventure Nintendo EAD Tokyo, GREZZO Co.,Ltd.
Nintendo February 12, 2015 Read less The Legend of Zelda: The Minish Cap Game Boy Advance, Nintendo 3DS, Wii U Role-playing (RPG), Adventure Capcom, Nintendo Nintendo November 04, 2004 Read less The Legend of Zelda: A Link Between Worlds Nintendo 3DS Puzzle, Role-playing (RPG), Adventure Nintendo EAD Group No. 3, Nintendo Nintendo November 22, 2013 Read less The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess HD Wii U Platform, Puzzle, Role-playing (RPG), Adventure Nintendo EPD, Nintendo Nintendo March 04, 2016 Read less The Legend of Zelda: Skyward Sword HD Nintendo Switch Role-playing (RPG), Adventure Nintendo Nintendo July 15, 2021 Read less Cadence of Hyrule: Crypt of the NecroDancer Featuring The Legend of Zelda Nintendo Switch Music, Adventure, Indie Brace Yourself Games Nintendo, Spike ChunSoft June 13, 2019 Read less The Legend of Zelda: Oracle of Ages Game Boy Color, Nintendo 3DS Role-playing (RPG), Adventure Capcom, Nintendo Nintendo February 27, 2001 Read less The Legend of Zelda Wii, Nintendo Entertainment System (NES), Nintendo 3DS, Wii U, Family Computer Disk System Adventure Nintendo EAD, Nintendo Nintendo February 21, 1986 Read less The Legend of Zelda: Spirit Tracks Nintendo DS, Wii U Puzzle, Role-playing (RPG), Adventure Nintendo EAD Group No. 3, Nintendo Nintendo December 07, 2009 Read less The Legend of Zelda: Four Swords Adventures Nintendo GameCube Adventure Nintendo EAD Group No. 3 Nintendo March 18, 2004 Read less Zelda II: The Adventure of Link Wii, Nintendo Entertainment System (NES), Nintendo 3DS, Wii U, Family Computer Disk System Role-playing (RPG), Adventure Nintendo EAD Nintendo January 14, 1987 Zelda II: The Adventure of Link is an oddity, and not just because its title didn’t start with “The Legend of Zelda.” After the success of the original, Nintendo decided to alter the formula for the direct sequel significantly. It subbed the top-down perspective for sidescrolling and had an integral emphasis on RPG tropes. As a result, The Adventure of Link is probably the most trying game in the series as well as the most divisive. It’s passable (even good), but some of the Zelda magic slipped in this transition. Still, Zelda II has its share of die-hard fans. But if you want classic gameplay that invites nostalgia, you might opt to pass on this title.
Read less The Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass Nintendo DS, Wii U Puzzle, Role-playing (RPG), Adventure Nintendo EAD Group No. 3, Nintendo Nintendo June 23, 2007 Phantom Hourglass , the predecessor to Spirit Tracks , shared its artistic style and use of a Steamboat (rather than a train) for travel. A cursory glance gives the impression that the two games are more similar than not, but Phantom Hourglass ’s dungeons weren’t as exciting, and it wasn’t as impressive as other traditional Zelda titles. Because of this, we had to put it at the bottom of our list.
Read less The Legend of Zelda: Tri Force Heroes Nintendo 3DS Platform, Puzzle, Hack and slash/Beat 'em up, Adventure Nintendo EPD, GREZZO Co.,Ltd., Nintendo Nintendo October 22, 2015 Tri Force Heroes is easily the worst game on the list, though we’re comparing it to some of the greatest games of all time. This installment is similar to Four Swords Adventures , emphasizing co-op so that players can complete levels with up to two other people on Nintendo 3DS. You can also play solo, switching off between characters as they solve each challenge. The downside is that either way you play, TriForce Heroes isn’t particularly memorable. The original Zelda’s magic isn’t quite there, and it doesn’t have much new to offer in terms of challenges or storylines. We could take it or leave it and didn’t mind leaving the game unfinished.
Read less With a catalog as extensive as The Legend of Zelda, any franchise would have a few misses. Since our list includes everything in the series, choose from the best and leave the others.
Editors' Recommendations The best handheld gaming PCs you can buy Best Perk-a-Colas in Modern Warfare 3 zombies, ranked The best Call of Duty games, ranked The best PS5 exclusives Netflix subscribers are getting one of the decade’s best games Nintendo Nintendo Switch Gaming Every year when the new Call of Duty title drops, the playing field is once again reset as everyone needs to start grinding back up the ranks. Fully embracing the RPG elements, Modern Warfare 3 once again allows you to earn XP as you play match after match to rank up your character, with each rank not only bringing you closer to hitting prestige but also unlocking new options for your chosen operator. Your player rank is unique from your weapon levels and can take a lot longer to grind if you don't know the most efficient methods. If you want to fast-track your career through the ranks, here are the fastest ways to earn XP in Modern Warfare 3.
How to earn XP fast in Modern Warfare 3 There's basically no way you can play Modern Warfare 3 without earning XP, but some modes and methods can earn you double (or more) what you could if you were just playing without a plan.
Play the objective We all love playing team deathmatch or any other mode where all you need to worry about is being the one to shoot first. However, if you want to earn that sweet XP fast, you need to choose one of the objective modes like Domination, Hardpoint, Ground War, or even Kill Confirmed. Not only do you get XP for killing enemies, but the amount you get on top of that for playing the objective can make up the bulk of your XP gain. This is especially true if you're not at the top of your game and end up dying more than you kill since you have another method to contribute. Also, objective modes grant you an XP bonus just for finishing the match.
Always work towards daily and weapon challenges Gaming While the jumps have been getting smaller and smaller between generations, there's always a nice graphical bump to look forward to when picking up the latest hardware. We're long past the days of going from 16-bit 2D games to full-on 3D, and even the jump from SD to HD, but the visual improvements we got between the PS4 and PS5 are still striking. Not only are resolutions higher, but new techniques like ray tracing are now possible and starting to show up in more titles as we get deeper into the console's life.
Now that it's been out for a decent amount of time, and we have a wide selection of both upgraded titles and ones made exclusively for the PS5, there are a few that have risen to the top that anyone looking to show off the power of their new console will want to grab. Not only are all the games on this list visually impressive -- not just necessarily photorealistic, mind you -- but they're also a blast to play. Graphics don't make a game fun, but it just works out that the best-looking games on PS5 are also some of the best-playing. Here are our picks for the PS5 games with the best graphics.
Gaming Blink while playing one of the best city-building games, and you'll lose countless hours expanding your city, refining your infrastructure, and focusing your trade. Ever since the original Sim City, we've been losing sleep designing the perfect utopias for our digital citizens, and as time has gone on, they've only gotten more satisfying to build.
Although city-building games usually carry a steep learning curve and tons of content, beginners can dive into any option on our list and have a good time. The genre has expanded to include tons of big hitters, with exciting sequels like Cities Skylines 2 on the horizon. We have a mix of hardcore survival experiences like Frostpunk and minimalist builders like Islanders, so there's something for everyone.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
