Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Guides How to charge a Nintendo Switch controller By Gabe Gurwin Close Running out of juice for your Nintendo Switch controller is a surefire way to ruin any gaming session. There’s nothing worse than seeing that flashing indicator on the screen, warning you that your battery is low and your ability to play your favorite Switch games is about to come to a screeching halt. Thankfully, Nintendo makes it easy for players to keep their Joy-Cons charged up and ready for action. Beyond several techniques that work right out of the box, there are also dedicated Switch accessories you can use to power up your controller.
How to charge Joy-Cons Use a charging dock How to charge Joy-Cons while playing How to charge using the Charging Grip How to charge using a charging case How to charge a Pro Controller How to charge using a charging dock Difficulty Duration What You Need Joy-Con controllers or Switch Pro Controller And -- if you happen to use the Switch Pro Controller -- you'll have even more options when it comes to keeping the battery full. Here all the different ways to charge your Joy-Cons or Pro Controller for the Nintendo Switch, including the best Nintendo Switch chargers money can buy.
Image used with permission by copyright holder How to charge Joy-Cons If you use the Joy-Con Grip as your mainstay Nintendo Switch controller, then battery life will drain before you know it. Luckily, there are a few ways you can charge it. The easiest way to charge the Joy-Con controllers doesn’t require any extra cables, accessories, or shelf space.
Step 1: With the Switch on, attach the Joy-Con controllers to either side of the console until they click. You should see a notification on the screen showing that they’re connected.
Step 2: Ensure the Switch’s dock or AC adapter is plugged into a power outlet. Either connect the adapter’s plug to the USB-C port on the bottom of the Switch or place the Switch in the dock.
The best Switch controllers for 2023 Sony’s new PlayStation earbuds are a perfect match — for my Nintendo Switch When does Hogwarts Legacy come out on Nintendo Switch? Step 3: Put your Nintendo Switch into “sleep” mode by hitting the power button located on the top. The Joy-Con controllers will not charge if the Switch is powered off completely Step 4: Wait! Nintendo estimates that it will take about three and a half hours to fully charge the Joy-Con controllers. To see how much charge they have, simply hit the Joy-Con icon on the Switch’s main menu and you’ll see their current charge level.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Use a charging dock If you prefer to use a charging dock, the process is simple, and you don’t need to leave your Switch turned on.
Step 1: For the Joy-Con charging dock, plug the included cable into the USB port on the Switch’s dock.
Step 2: Place up to four Joy-Con controllers into the dock and ensure the lights on the top are red. When they’ve turned green, the controllers are fully charged.
How to charge Joy-Cons while playing Want to keep playing on your Nintendo Switch while your Joy-Cons charge? There are a few ways to do that, as well.
Step 1: Take a Nintendo Switch AC adapter and plug it into a wall so that the cord still reaches where you’ll be playing, and plug the USB-C end into the port on the bottom of the console.
Step 2: Attach the Joy-Con controllers and get gaming! As long as the Switch is charging, so are the Joy-Con controllers.
Image used with permission by copyright holder How to charge using the Charging Grip If you want to play on the television while the Joy-Con controllers are charging, you’ll need to get the Joy-Con Charging Grip. It’s shaped identically to the standard Joy-Con Grip, but can connect to your Switch dock to continue charging the controllers while they’re in use.
Step 1: Use the included cable to connect the Charging Grip to the Switch’s dock, then open the small slider on the top of the Charging Grip and insert your Joy-Con controllers before closing the slider.
Step 2: Play! Your controllers will now charge as you’re using your Switch.
How to charge using a charging case The S-Charge is a Nintendo Switch charging case that includes its own backup battery similar to that of portable USB chargers, and it can be used to charge the Switch and its attached Joy-Con controllers on the go.
Step 1: With the S-Charge itself charged (it can plug into the Switch dock like a Pro Controller can), press the power button located on the left side.
Step 2: Lift up the flap on the top and attach the Switch with Joy-Con controllers, then close the flap.
Step 3: Your controllers should now be charging! On the Switch’s home menu, tap the Joy-Con symbol to go to the controller page, and it should indicate that it’s connected to a power source.
Step 4: The S-Charge has a battery with more than double the capacity of the Switch itself, so you can continue charging your Joy-Con controllers this way for hours without having to worry about the case running out of battery.
Step 5: When not using the S-Charge, make sure you turn it off by holding down the power button for a few seconds. If you don’t do this, it could be dead the next time you need it.
Image used with permission by copyright holder How to charge a Pro Controller If you play your Nintendo Switch docked and using the television, you’ll want to invest in a Pro Controller since the battery life is good, but you will still need to charge it after about 40 hours of play.
The simplest way to charge a Pro Controller is to plug it into the USB port on the front of the Switch’s dock using the included cable.
Step 1: Once plugged in, an orange light will light up on the top of the Pro Controller. It should take about six hours to charge fully. When the battery is full, the light will go out.
Step 2: You can continue to use the controller while it’s charging, though the cable is too short for this to work in some setups.
Step 3: The Nintendo Switch does not need to be docked for the Pro Controller to charge. You’re free to remove it and play in handheld mode as you wait for the controller to recharge.
Image used with permission by copyright holder How to charge using a charging dock If you want to charge the Pro Controller without using the Switch dock, you can also use the Nyko Charge Block Pro for Nintendo Switch, which features a low-profile design that fits anywhere and uses a patented dongle system attached to a USB Type-C port on your controller.
Step 1: Take the included charging dongle and insert it into the port on the top of your Pro Controller.
Step 2: Then take the USB cable (included) and connect it to the AC adapter (also included) before plugging the AC adapter into a wall outlet.
Step 3: At this point, place your controller onto the Charge Block Pro. The light on the front of the dongle should turn orange; that’s your indicator that the charger is doing its job. When your controller is ready and finished charging, the light will turn off.
The method for recharging a Nintendo Switch controller largely depends on the make and model device a player is using. The proprietary Joy-Con controller charges differently than other devices, for example.
Switch controllers charge at different speeds. The time it takes to fuel up is dependent on the equipment you use — some items simply charge faster than others. Other factors can play a role in the recharge rate for your controller. For that reason, it’s best to test out different cables, Switch modes, and more to figure out which setup works best for you and your preferences.
Luckily, finding Switch accessories is pretty easy. If you’re hoping to get back to your game quickly, you could always consider buying a backup controller to use while the other one is charging.
Recent Updates January 30, 2023: Verified accuracy of instructions; no change in information.
Editors' Recommendations Nintendo Switch Black Friday deals: Consoles, games, and more One of the best sci-fi games ever made is coming to Nintendo Switch next month Nintendo introduces a new Super Smash Bros. Switch OLED for Black Friday Saves $40 on the Zelda edition of the Nintendo Switch OLED The best third-party video game controller is about to get even better How-To Guides Nintendo Nintendo Switch Gaming It may be Prime Big Deal Days, but that doesn't mean other online retailers aren't getting into the sales holiday spirit. Right now, Best Buy is piggybacking on some Prime Day deals with discounts on a wide variety of Nintendo Switch games. There are only two days of this online sale at Amazon, and Best Buy will probably cut their deals off on Wednesday night too, so grab a couple of titles before you have to pay full price again.
What to buy in Best Buy's Nintendo Switch game deals Among the cheapest games that are available in Best Buy's ongoing sale include strategic Fire Emplem Warriors: Three Hopes (digital code) for the Nintendo Switch OLED model, which is Gaming If you want to get the Nintendo Switch OLED for a cheaper price but you haven't had any luck finding Nintendo Switch deals, you may want to consider getting a refurbished version of the console. Back Market is offering the gaming device in Fair condition for as low as $270, for savings of $80 on its brand-new price of $350, though you can also get it in Good condition for $274 and in Excellent condition for $294. You'll have to choose quickly though, as there are limited stocks.
Why you should buy the refurbished Nintendo Switch OLED You have a choice among three different conditions if you buy a refurbished Nintendo Switch OLED from Back Market. A console in Fair condition means there are visible signs of wear, Good condition means there are faint signs of wear, and Excellent condition means it looks like new. In any case, the refurbished device is guaranteed to be working perfectly, and for your peace of mind, Back Market offers free 30-day returns and a one-year warranty for a repair or replacement if you encounter a technical issue.
Gaming Whether you've just purchased the Nintendo Switch or you've had it since day one, you should always be on the lookout for video game deals that will expand your collection of titles for the console. Here's an offer from Amazon's Woot that you should consider -- Minecraft Legends Deluxe Edition at half-price, following a $25 discount on its original price of $50. You'll have to hurry if you want to get this game for just $25 though, as there's a chance that it gets sold out sooner than you think.
Why you should buy Minecraft Legends Deluxe Edition for Nintendo Switch Minecraft, one of the bestselling video games of all time, is an action-adventure sandbox game where players can explore a limitless world and build to their heart's content. Minecraft Legends is a spinoff real-time strategy game where you'll command minions to attack the outposts of Piglins, which invaded the Overworld, and create defenses to protect villages. You'll have to gather resources from the game's procedurally generated open world in order to build structures and make upgrades, and you'll need to recruit Minecraft favorites like Golems, Skeletons, Creepers, and Zombies to help in your fight to save the Overworld from the invaders. You can also play the multiplayer modes of Minecraft Legends with your friends if you want a faster version of the campaign mode, though it's recommended that you master the mechanics first before jumping into them.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
